Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4513-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON AN
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$325 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC TURKEY
June 1, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofilcba duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TURKEY
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency
Unit    Jan.1980 a/  Jan. 1982  Jan. 1983  Jan. 1984  Jan. 1985  Jan. 1986  Jan. 1987
US Dollar  TL 70.00   TL 139.60  TL 191.15  TL 309.20  TL 451.00  TL 585.1          752.9
TL 100    US$1.43      US$0.72    US$0.52    US$0.32    US$0.22   US$0.17         US$0.13
a!  Since January 1980, the rate is being adjusted for the differential
inflation between Turkey and its major trading partners.  In this report
it is assumed that this policy will continue.
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Turkey                                      January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
kVA                                               =     kilovolt ampere
kW                                                =     kilowatt
kWh                                               =     kilowatt hour
GWh (Gigawatt hour)                                     1,000,000 kWh
kV (kilovolt)                                     =      1,000 volts
MSCT/day                                          =     million standard
cubic feet/day
MW (Megawatt)                                     =      1,000 kW
MVA (Megavolt-ampere)                             =      1,000 kVA
MVAR (Megavolt-ampere)                            =      1,000 KVAR
One meter (m)                                     -     3.28 feet
One kilometer (km)                                -     0.624 mile
One kilogram (kg) (1,000 kg)                      =     2.2 pounds
One ton (metric ton) (1,000 kg)                   _      2,205 pounds
One kilocalorie (kcal)(1,000 calories)            =     3.968 BTU
toe                                               -     tons of oil equivalent



Fo0 OMCIL USE ONLY
TURKEY
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
List of Abbreviations
BOT      -   Build, Operate, and Turnover
BOTAS    -   Turkish Pipeline Corporation
CEAS     -  -Cukurova Electric Company
CuP      -   Combined Heat and Power
DSI      -   State Hydraulics Authority
DYB      -   State Investp'ent Bank
EIE      -   Electricity Survey Administration
GDE      -   General Directorate for the Environment
GDPA     -   General Directorate for Petroleum Affairs
IAEA     -   International Atomic Energy Agency
IGDAS    -   Istanbul Gas Distribution Company
KEPEZ    -   Kepes Electric Company
LRMC     -   Long Run Marginal Cost
MENR     -  Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources
MTA      -  Mineral Research Institute
POAS     -   Petrol Ofisi
PSBR     -   Public Sector Borrowing Requirement
SEE      -   State Economic Enterprise
SPO      -   State Planning Organization
TEK      -   Turkish Electricity Authority
TKI      -   Turkish Coal (Lignite) Enterprises
TTK      -   Turkish Hard Coal Enterprise
TPAO     -   Turkish Petroleum Corporation
TUPRAS   -   Turkish Refineries Corporation
hi document has a restricted distribution and may be used by ecipients only in the perfonnrmn|
of their oflci duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzaion.



TURKEY
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Borrower                : Republic of Turkey
Beneficiaries           : Republic of Turkey and Energy Sector Agencies
Amount                  : US$325 million equivalent
Terms                   : 17 years including 4 years grace, with interest at
the standard variable interest rate.
Desc:iption             : The proposed loan would support the continuation of
the Government's reform program in the energy
sector. The principal objectives of the program are
to improve the efficiency of energy production in
the public sector and to assist in Government
efforts to facilitate private sector participation
in the sector. Government policies are designed to
further reduce the constraints that limited energy
supplies have imposed on the Turkish economy. The
loan in part would support policy measures to
achieve these objectives and in part finance
priority energy sector investments for the period
1987-19899
Benefits and Risks      :  Implementation of Government's energy sector
adjustment program would result in several
significant benefits to the economy. It would:
ensure movement towards Government's objectives of
liberalization as outlined in the structural
adjustment program; increase the stock of trained
manpower in the sector; lay the foundation for
increasing the flows of private capital to the
sector; and, reduce both recurrent and capital
public expenditures through improved efficiency.
The main risks relate to the uncertainties regarding
the level and timing of private investment,
volatility of demand forecasts and their impact on
investment, and the pace of price adjustments
necessary for implementing cost recovery policies.
We believe that efforts to reduce these risks to an
acceptable level have been taken.
Estimated               : Full disbursement of the loan would take place over
Disbursements              a two and a half year period.  The loan would
include US$175 million in direct support of the
policy reform program to be disbursed in two
tranches - US$75 million at effectiveness and US$100
million approximately one year after effectiveness.
The balance (US$150 million) would be utilized to
fund the foreign exchange costs of goods, equipment
and technical assistance needed for the 1987-1989
energy investment program.
Staff Appraisal Report : Not applicable
: IBRD: 20412



TURKEY
ENEERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTMMEN
Pate
PART I.    THE ECONOMY                                                    1
Background                                                     1
Recent Economic Developments                                   2
Medium Term Prospects and Policies                             7
PART II.   THE EWERGY SECTOR                                              8
Sector Profile                                                 8
Energy Resources                                           8
Energy Balances                                            8
Institutional Arrangements                                12
The Development of Energy Policy in Turkey                    12
Energy Policy in the 19709                                12
Energy Policy since 1984                                  13
PART III.  THE SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM                               15
Background                                                    15
Energy and the Macro Framework                            15
The Policy Framework and Government Objectives            15
The Program                                                   17
The Institutional Framework                               17
Economic Investment                                       23
Efficiency in the Supply and Consumption of Energy        29
Environmental Considerations                                  34
PART IV.   THE PROPOSED LOAN                                             36
Background                                                    36
Project Cost and Financing Plan                               36
Procurement, Disbursement and Administration                  40
Monitoring and Reporting                                      41
Benefits and Risks                                            42
PART V.    BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY                               44
PART VI.   RECOMMENDATION                                                45



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTSS (Cont.)
Page
Figures and Tables:
Figure 1:  Commercial Energy Demand and Supply, 1984-1995                      11
Table  1:  Net Firancial Contribution of Petroleum Products, 1985              33
Table  2:  Project Cost Table                                                  38
Teb]-  3:  Tentative Financing Plan for the Project                            39
Table  4:  Financial Requirements for the 1987-1989 Program                    39
Annexes
1.        Economic Data Sheets
2.        World Bank and IFC Operations
3.        Statement of Energy Policy
4.        Schedule of Actions
5.        The Priority Energy Investment Program 1987-1989
6.        Financing Gaps and Goods and Services to be Procured
7.        Energy Balances, 1985 - 2010
°.        Energy Reserves
9.        Turkey's Energy Policy and Declining Oil Prices
10.       Summary of Studies, Working Papers and Technical Notes
in Support of the Loan
11.       Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
IBRD No. 20412



INT AIONAL BAK FOR RECONSTRUCTION A   DVLOPNE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED ENERGY
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed EDergy
Sector Adjustment Loan to the Republic of Turkey for the equivalent of
US$325 million to support the Government's program of reforms in the energy
sector. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace.
at the standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Bacekgomd
2.       A Bank report reviewing the Government's Fifth Development Plan
(1985-89) entitled "Turkey: Vth Five-Year Plan in the Context of Structural
Adjustment" (5418-TU) was distributed to the Executive Directors in July
1985. A report entitled "Turkey: Adjusting Public Investment" (6603-TU) as
well as a Country Brief were distributed in March 1987.
3.       Turkey's populition of about 50 million, with a per capita income of
$1,130 in 1985, inhabits an area about the size of France and West Germany
combined. Population density is low (65 per square kilometer) and about half
of the populationi lives in urban centers. Population growth averaged
2.4 percent per annum between 1980 and 1985. Despite sustained economic
growth over the past six years, unemployment remains high. The labor surplus
rate, which includts open unemployment, the proportion of unemployed not
seeking work and disguised unemployment in agri2ulture, is estimated at about
15 percent. There is little or no absolute poverty, but considerable
differences in income exist between regions and between rural and urban
communities. Recent data indicate a probable increase in income inequality
since the 1970s. School enrollment at the primary level has become
practically universal. Most health indicators, including infant mortality
rates, have shown substantial improvement over the past two decades, but here
too regional and sectoral disparities remain significant.
4.       Turkey's natural resource base, including hydropower and other
minerals, and its agricultural and tourist potential are considerable, while
its basic infrastructure is already well developed. The present Government
sees the country's long-term development based on a competitive trading
economy, backed by a more efficient, restrained public sector. Within this
framework, sustained economic growth, consistent with domestic and external



3262P                                -  2  -
financing constraints, will be needed to provide continued employment
opportunities for Turkey's growing population and improve economic welfare
particularly in the less developed regions. The achievement of these goals
will, to a large extent, depend on the appropriate interaction between public
and private sectors to identify areas of comparative advantage and allocate
resources efficiently.
5.       Turkey was successful in generating rapid growth with low inflation
through much of the 1960s and 1970s. However, an inadequate adjustment to the
fiL-t oil shock and subsequent recession in the OECD countries contributed to
an unsustainable balance of payments position by 1977. The share of oil
imports to merchandise exports had risen from 17 percent in 1972 to 84 percent
in 1977 and deteriorated further to 124 percent in 1980, indicating the severe
impact which higher oil prices had on the balance of payments. Growing
current account deficits in the mid-1970s, financed largely through short-term
borrowing, more than tripled external debt between 1974 and 1977. Following
the virtual cessation of external financing and accumulation of arrears,
comprehensive debt rescheduling agreements were negotiated between 1978 and
1980 with both private and official creditors. Meanwhile, the shortage of
foreign exchange and imports led to disruptions in industrial production,
declines in real GNP in 1979-80, rising unemployment and a sharp acceleration
of inflation.
6. In response to the crisis of the late 1970s, the Turkish authorities
initiated a wide ranging program of economic reforms in 1980, supported by the
IWF and World Bank adjustment lending, designed to promote allocative
efficiency through greater reliance on market forces and the private sector
and to achieve an outward orientation of the economy through import
liberalization and export promotion. The program represented a major break
with past policies, which had favored import substitution, market intervention
and reliance on state enterprises. At the same time, an extended
stabilization program was implemented to restrain the growth of domestic
demand, in order to attain a manageable external payments position and restore
international creditworthiness.
Recent Economic DeveloDments
7.       The Turkish economy has displayed a creditable overall response to
the stabilization and structural adjustment measures. Real GNP grew at an
annual average rate of over 5 percent during 1981-86, while the current
account deficit was reduced from 6 percent of GNP in 1980 to under 2 percent
in 1985 before rising to about 2.6 percent in 1986. Inflation, which
accelerated to over 100 percent in 1980, fell to below 30 percent in 1986.
While unemployment has remained high, this can in part be attributed to a
secular decline in agricultural employment and, since 1984, a decline in the
number of Turkish workers abroad.
8.       The improvement in the balance of payments between 1980 and 1985 waS
made possible by the very rapid expansion of exports, which grew at an annual
average rate of more than 20 percent, more than tripling their share of GDP
from 5 to over 15 percent. Exports of industrial products, composed primarily



3262P                                -  3 -
of processed foods and textiles, grew particularly rapidly, increasing their
share of total exports from 36 percent in 1980 to 75 percent in 1985. This
impressive export performance was achieved through the maintenance of a
flexible and realistic exchange rate, substantial progress in liberalizing the
import regime, as well as direct measures such as tax rebates and preferential
credits to enhance the relative profitability of exports and offset the
traditional bias towards production for the domestic market.
9.       The improvement in the balance of payments was initially aided by a
policy of demand restraint facilitated by a significant tightening of fiscal
policy. The public sector borrowing requirement (PSBR) consequently declined
from about 10 percent of GNP in 1980 to about 6 percent in 1982. However,
between 1982 and 1984, fiscal deficits grew in real ter.3, due mainly to a
disappointing revenue performance. The introduction of a value added tax in
1985 was successful in reversing this downward trend. However, further
significant reduction of the PSBR, which is estimated at about 6 percent of
GMN in 1986, has been constrained by the rapid growth of public investment and
the growing share of interest payments on both foreign and domestic public
debt.
10.      Price trends between 1980 and 1985 closely reflected fiscal
performance. Thus, the annual average increase in wholesale prices
decelerated from 107 percent in 1980 to 27 percent in 1982 before accelerating
to 50 percent by 1984. In 1985, a tighter fiscal policy and higher real
interest rates slowed the growth of domestic demand, and inflation fell to
43 percent. In 1986, inflation decelerated to 30 percent despite a sharp rise
in the growth of real domestic demand of nearly 11 percent compared with a
real GNP growth of 8 percent. The fall in inflation was greatly aided by the
decline of world oil prices and a good harvest. In addition, reduced reliance
on Central Bank financing of the budget deficit in 1986 permitted a slowing in
the growth of broad money to 42 percent.
11.      A prominent feature of the reform process has been to focus the
public investment program on infrastructure while encouraging the private
sector to play the major role in manufacturing. These priorities remain in
place. However, since 1985 the growth of public fixed investment has been
extremely rapid, estimated at about 16 percent in 1985 and 14 percent in 1986,
compared to an annual average rate of growth of only 2 percent during
1982-84. A principal cause appears to be the initiation of a policy of fiscal
decentralization in 1985 whereby local governments and extrabudgetary funds1'
were provided access to increased sources of revenue and financing. This
pnlicy has managed to address certain pressing social needs such as low income
11   Extrabudgetary funds were created to address specific social objectives
and provide funding for priority projects. Although such funds have
existed since the 1960s, their number and importance have expanded
greatly since 1984. By 1986, extrabudgetary funds accounted for about
14 percent of public sector (excludirg State Economic Enterprise)
expenditure compared to less than 5 percent in 1983.



3262P                                -  4  -
housing and improvements in municipal infrastructure in a more effective
manner than was possible through the traditional budget process. The funds
have also been used to expedite the implementation of high priority public
investment projects, particularly in the power subsector. However,
recognizing the adverse impact of excessive public investment growth on
domestic demand and the balance of payments, the Government took a series of
measures during the second half of 1986 to gain greater control of investment
outlays and has targeted a sharply slower rate of growth for 1987 (3.5
percent). Nevertheless the rationalization of public investment remains a
high priority for Government. Reaching this target will not be easy in light
of the momentum toward rapidly rising public investment built up in 1985-86,
but overshooting the target could significantly weaken the balance of nayments.
12.      The combined financing requirement of the SEEs is estimated to have
declined as a percentage of GNP in recent years. This improvement to a large
extent reflects the increased flexibility granted to the SEEs in setting
prices in a more competitive environment, a policy which has resulted in more
efficient public sector pricing, including in the energy sector. Real fixed
investment by the SEEs is also estimated to have declined in 1986 and a
further decline is targeted for 1987. Slower growth in SEE investment
reaffirms the Government's broader objective to leave expansion in
manufacturing activity largely to the private sector. The Government has also
continued to pursue its goal of privatization of a nunber of SEEs. A series
of studies have been completed, and the legal and administrative barriers to
privatization have been removed. The intention of the Government is to
proceed cautiously with privatization, initially selecting small to medium
sized enterprises likely to be attractive to, among others, foreign investors.
13.      A persistent constraint in recent years to private investment has
been the prevalence of high interest rates for non-preferential credits which
remain in the 70-90 percent range. Nominal interest rates for such credits
have remained relatively stable despite the sharp deceleration of inflation
since 1984. There are several causes. High and variable rates of inflation
since the late 1970s appear to have led to a degree of public skepticism
regarding the feasibility of a sustained reduction in inflation. The
financing requirements generated by fiscal deficits, which are large in
relation to the level of available private and foreign savings, also tend to
drive up interest rates and crowd out private sector borrowing. In addition,
the intermediation costs of financial institutions remain high due to
relatively high rates of taxation and the significant level of non-performing
assets which banks are currently carrying. The existence of high lending
rates has necessitated the use of Government investment incentives and
preferential credit for priority sectors such as manufacturing and housing. A
recent review of private investment in industry has shown that investment did
pick up in 1986, but that a number of factors continue to inhibit the climate
i.e. high real interest rates, uncertainty about the economic outlook and
about inflation. High interest rates have thus led to a greater reliance on
financing out of retained earnings, which itself has not been a major
deterrent to private investment in the energy sector, since only firms with
large financial resources have the capacity to finance projects in the sector.



3262P                                -5-
14.      The current eccount deficit in 1986 is estimated to have widened to
$1.5 billion (a 50 percent increase over 1985), despite savings of about
$1.6 billion accruing from lower oil import prices. This deterioration can
largely be attributed to a combination of weak external demand, rising
domestic demand and higher interest payments. The decline of exports to
Turkey's major Middle Eastern tradinig partners as a result of their loss of
purraasing power to a considerable extent offset the beneficial impact of
lower imported oil prices. Total exports in 1986 are estimated to have
declined by about 6 percent in value terms, in marked contrast to the
impressive growth achieved during the 1980-85 period. The value of imports
fell by 5 percent although import volume increased by 11 percent due to
savings from oil and despite a percent increase in the value of capital goods
imports reflecting the rapid growth of investment in 1986.
15.      Turkey's improved international creditworthiness since the early
1980s is reflected in the resumption of private capital inflows in the form of
trade credits since 1982 and syndicated medium-term financing since 1983. in
addition, in 1986 direct foreign investment is estimated to have risen
significantly, although it is still small in relation to external borrowing.
Short-term foreign borrowing also grew rapidly during 1985-86. In 1986, this
growth largely reflected increased Central Bank borrowing to finance the
higher than anticipated current account deficit and the need to extend trade
credits to those Middle Eastern trading partners suffering from foreign
exchange shortages as a result of the fall in oil prices.
16. Turkey's trade regime has since 1980 undergone a fundamental
transformation through reductions in quantitative restrictions and tariffs on
imports and provision of export incentives which together have substantially
reduced the anti-export bias which prevailed prior to 1980. In 1984, the
Government shifted its emphasis from granting direct export incentives to
relying more heavily on market oriented mechanisms, in particular the exchange
rate. Following the disappointing export performance in 1986, however, export
tax rebates on average have been raised while a preferential export credit
facility operated through the Central Bank was reinstated in January 1987. In
addition, to finance the growing expenditures of the extrabudgetary funds, the
use of dollar denominated levies on selected imports, the revenues from which
are generally earmarked for use by a particular fund, has been greatly
expanded. Although the average tariff rate has continued to decline, the
overall level of nominal protection is therefore estimated to have risen
marginally in 1986. However, quantitative restrictions on imports have
continued to be relaxed, offsetting to some extent the increase in nominal
protection.
17.      Turkey's external debt at end-1986 is estimated at $32 billion,
equivalent to about 55 percent of GNP and nearly 260 percent of total
exports. Since about half of Turkey's debt is denominated in currencies other
than the US dollar, the recent decline of the dollar accounts for much of the
rapid growth of debt measured in dollars over the past two years. The
proportion of short-term to total debt has also risen from 15 percent in 1984



3262P                                  6 -
to 21 percent in 1986.1r In addition to the necessity to finance a higher
than anticipated current account deficit in 1986, the recent growth of
short-term debt also reflects the preference still exhibited by both foreign
creditors end private sector borrowers in Turkey for contracting short rather
than long-term obligations. For 1987, the Government intends to rely to a
greater extent on medium-term external borrowing while limiting the growth of
short-term trade financing.
18.      Turkey's debt service payments have risen significantly since the
expiratioh in 1984 of the grace periodo on payments due under the OECD
reachedulings of 1978-80. Principal payments due from the 1979 commercial
bank rescheduling (as amended in 1982) have also raised debt service payments,
while net repayments to the IMF have risen following the termination of the
most recent IMF standby arrangement in early 1985. Total debt service
(including IMF repurchases and chargea and interest on short-term debt) rose
from $3.0 billion in 1984 to abontt $4.7 billion in 1986. The debt service
ratio concurrently rose from 26 percent in 1984 to 37 percent in 1986.
19.      Turkey remains creditworthy for Bank lending.  The Bank Group's share
of Turkey's total external debt grew from 7 percent in 1980 to an estimated
15 percent in 1986. Debt outstanding and disbursed to the Bank at end-1986
amounted to $4,836 million of which $939 million was accounted for by exchange
rate adjustments resulting frow the recent weakening of the U.S. dollar. The
Bank's share of Turkey's total external debt is expected to grow gradually
through 1988, after which it is projected to decline to about 16 percent in
1990. Turkey's debt service payments to the Bank in 1986 amounted to
$558 million, equivalent to about 12 percent of total debt service in 1986.
This share is projected to rise to about 17 percent by 1990.
20.      Turkey's economic performance over the past six years compares
favorably with that of other middle-income developing countries confronted by
external financing difficulties. In large part, this relative success has
been the result of the Government's ability to strike an appropriate balance
between the objectives of stabilization and growth, while maintaining economic
liberalization as the theme of the adjustment program. However, the rapid
growth of public investment observed during 1985-86 strained the balance of
payments position, forced a partial reversal of the trade liberalization
process witnessed through 1985 and prevented a further decline of fiscal
deficits. By mid-1986, the Government had begun to take measures to restore
more sustainable internal and external balance. However, in view of the need
to reduce fiscal deficits to more sustainable levels and given the prospect of
heavy external debt servicing requirements, an intensification of the
stabilization effort may become necessary, particularly if export performance
does not pick up in 1987.
1/  These figures reflect the recent reclassification of Dresdner Bank
deposits with maturities of longer than one year from short to meduim and
long-term debt. (Under the Dresdner scheme, deposits from Turkish
workers abroad are collected by the Dresdner Bank and placed at the
deposition of the Central Bank of Turkey which guarantees the deposits
and pays an attractive interest rate.)



3262P                                -7-
Medium Term Prospects and Poficies
21.      In order to reverse the recent deterioration in the balance of
payments and continue the progress in lowering inflation, the Government's
annual economic program for 1987 c lls for slower growth and tighter fiscal
and monetary policies compared to 1986. The rate of growth of real GNP is
targeted to slow to 5 percent, inflation to 20 percent and the fiscal deficit
is to be curbed through a reduction in the growth of public fixed investment
to 3.5 percent and an increase in the value-added tax from 10 to 12 percent
(enacted in December 1986). These targets together with export volume growth
of about 11 percent are assumed to be consistent with a reduction of the
current account deficit to $1.1 billion, but the attainment of this target
might require further restraint in the growth of domestic demand.
22.      The strength of the export recovery in 1987 and beyond is likely to
be a crucial determinant of the pace and nature of Turkey's development
prospects. With merchandise exports in 1986 comprising only 13 percent of
GNP, the potential for significant export growth clearly exists. In the
short-run, reemphasizing the role of discretionary export incentives may help
to revive the export drive. However, these incentives can only be maintained
at significant fiscal cost or by generating offsetting revenue through greater
reliance on import protection. Therefore, a more sustainable export strategy
over the medium-term would place greater emphasis on the exchange rate to
maintain competitiveness while constraining the expansion of domestic demand.
The impact of the recent expansion in the use of import levies on production
and export incentives will also have to be carefully re-examined. Greater
emphasis on marketing, quality control and diversification of exports to
countries benefiting from lower oil prices will also be necessary. While all
these aspects will be important Turkey's efforts to raise exports can only
succeed if protectionism in OECD markets does not intensify.
23.      The Bank's base case projections assume an export growth rate of
6.4 percent in real terms for the 1987-91 period. Real GNP growth of about
5 percent over this period could then be achieved with a gradual decline in
the current account/GNP ratio, permitting a parallel decline in the ratios of
debt to both GNP and exports. Debt service obligations in 1987-88 are
projected to remain high with the debt service ratio staying at about the same
level as in 1986, i.e. 37 percent. However this ratio is projected to decline
to about 31 percent by 1991, reflecting the completion of repayments of
earlier rescheduled debt and projected growth in exports. Gross capital
inflows averaging $4.8 billion a year through 1991, excluding the rollover of
short-term debt, would be required to finance annual current account deficits
of between $1 and $1.5 billion, moderate reserve increases and amortization
payments which are expected to average almost $3.3 billion a year.
24.      If export growth were to be slower than projected in the base case,
real GNP growth would have to be slowed, while real indebtedness would
nonetheless rise. In such a situation, it would be more difficult for the
economy to absorb a sufficient share of new labor market entrants to prevent a
rise in unemployment. Domestic protectioni-t pressures would likely be more
difficult to contain while other aspects of the Government's program of
economic liberalization would also be jeopardized.



3262P                               -8-
PART II - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Sector Profile
25.      Turkey's energy sector is a large, diverse and complex sector
covering some eleven public and three private sector agencies, and a wide
range of indigenous resources. The sector dominates public sector
expenditures, and employs over 100,000 people.
Energy Resources
26.      Turkey has substantial untapped lignite and hydropower resources, as
well as more limited but still important, oil, gas and coal resources, and
geothermal potential. Hydropower with potential economic viability is
estimated at about 31,000 MW, corresponding to an annual production of about
105,000 Gwb (under average hydrological conditions). Only 15-20 percent has
been developed so far, although this is projected to rise to about 30 percent
'by 1990. Proven recoverable reserves of oil are about 16 million tons,
equivalent to one year's consumption; although potential reserves that may
become economically recoverable using enhanced oil recovery techniques, could
reach 30 million tons. Oil production has been declining over the past decade
as few discoveries have been made in recent years. Proven recoverable gas
reserves are about 400 billion standard cubic feet, although domestic gas
supplies are to be supplemented from 1987 onwards by large scale imports of
natural gas from the USSR (para. 65).
27.      Total known reserves of hard coal are estimated at about 1 billion
tons, all located in Northern Turkey. Coal production has been declining as
operations move to deeper, less accessible seams. Production in 1985 was
around 4 million tons (2.5 million toe). Lignite reserves are estimated at
8.2 billion tons, but about half of this is of extremely low quality
(1,000 kcal/kg). Lignite production in 1985 was about 25 million tons,
equivalent to 7 million toe. There is technical potential for geothermal (for
space heating and electricity generation) and bituminous shales, however
existing international energy prices provide insufficient incentive for major
development at present.
Energy Balances
28.      Historical growth in final energy consumption has been about
5.5 percent per annum since 1972, with per capita consumption growing at
around 3.0 percent per annum over the same period. Total energy consumption
in 1985 was about 42 million toe, of which commercial energy consumption
amounted to 34 million toe (80 percent). Petroleum made up the most
significant share of primary energy (57 percent), with lignite (21 percent),
hydropower (11 percent), coal (11 percent) and others making up the balance.
Overall about 16 percent of final commercial energy consumption was in the
form of electricity. The most notable changes in the pattern of energy
consumption over the past two decades have been the decrease in the relative
share of hard coal, the increase in petroleum, and the rapid rise in
indigenous lignite and hydropower. Approximately 44 percent of total



3262P                                -  9  -
commercial energy requirements were met from domestically produced resources,
the balance (56 percent) imported primarily in the form of liquid petroleum
products, electricity from Bulgaria and USSR, and hard coal.
29.      Despite the international energy price increases in the 1970s, energy
intensity, as measured by energy utilized per $ of GDP, increased by over
12 percent between 1972 and 1980. Energy intensity peaked in 1980 and has,
since then, shown a gradual decline - a function possibly of Government's
energy pricing policy during the 1980s (pars. 85).
30.      Electricity, which averaged about 11 percent of total consumption of
primary energy grew at an average annual growth rate of 10 percent (KWh) and
11 percent (MW) over the 1972-1985 period. Electricity intensity as measured
by electricity (KWh) utilized per $ of GDP, increased by a quite dramatic
4.9 percent per annum and by 1985 Turkey was about 70 percent more electricity
intensive than it had been in 1972.
31.      The reasons for the relatively high increase in electricity
utilization are not clear cut but stem from: a failure early in the period to
adjust tariffs to reflect costs with a concomitant failure especially within
the industrial sector to adjust technologically to the increased energy costs;
changes in economic structure, in particular the rapid growth rates in the
industrial sector; and, a relatively low base for the electricity subsector of
both per capita consumption (relative to GDP) and penetration of the
commercial energy balance.1'
32.      The data on average energy and electricity intensities masks,
however, a considerable range in end use efficiencies. This is amply
illustrated in the industrial sector (40 percent of total energy consumption
and 64 percent of total electricity consumption) where eight energy intensive
industries&' account for over 40 percent of total industrial energy
consumption. The potential energy savings in these key industries has been
estimated at some 620,000 toe per annum, equivalent to US$43 million per
an,an.
33.      Projected Demand.  Trends observed in the growth and pattern of
energy consumption during the latter part of the 1970s are expected to
continue during the 1980s and 1990s. The most important factor in the growth
of energy demand will be the growth rate of the economy as a whole and the
1/ Electricity per capita for 1983 was 523 kWh for Turkey. This compares
with Colombia (837); Jordan (590); Peru (630) - all countries with
comparable GDP per capita incomes.
31  Iron and steel, cement, fertilizer, pulp and paper, glass, bricks,
aluminum and copper.
3/ This was undertaken by comparing, on a plant by plant basis, actual
average energy consumption per unit of output with a notional achievable
efficiency target. Savings ranged from 6 percent to 33 percent and
included electricity, fuel oil and coal. The value of energy saved was
estimated on the basis of US$70/toe.



3262P                                -  10  -
growth of the relatively energy-intensive manufacturing and industrial
sectors. MENR has recently prepared a set of energy demand forecasts as an
input to an ongoing electricity system planning exercise (para. 70). The work
program is based upon econometric analysis carried out by SPO, a joint MENR,
SPO and TEK study using a simulation model -' which tests the effects of
economic and technological policy variables on demand, and a World Bank
financed technical assistance program within TEK to analyze electricity load
data (load curves, price elasticities, etc.) and assess the scope for improved
demand management practices. The findings of the work program are:
(a) overall energy consumption will increase at average annual rates of
about 5.4 percent;
(b) commercial energy will increasingly substitute non-commercial energy;
and
(c) electricity demand will grow at rates greater than total energy
demand as a result of:
Ci) a shift in development strategy toward export led industrial and
manufacturing growth;
(ii) an urban growth rate projected at almost double the rural growth
rate; and
(iii) increased substitution of electricity for other energy products.
34.      Electricity demand is projected to grow at about 8 percent per annum
over the medium term (until the early 1990s) and then gradually decline to
around 5 percent per annum by the late 1990s and beyond. Both energy and
electricity efficiency are expected to improve over the medium term in
response to Government policy measures and the introduction of a vigorous
energy conservation program (para. 93). For example, energy efficiency, as
measured by the energy/GDP coefficient, is expected to decline to below 1.0 by
the mid 1990s. Electricity efficiency as measured by the industry/
electricity coefficient is projected to decrease from historical levels of
around 1.4 to about 1.1. Per capita consumption of electricity will rise to
about 1,600 kWh by the year 2000X.2
35.      Given the vulnerability of Turkey's economic growth prospects MENR
plans to update its demand projections on a regular basis to reflect changes
in the internal and external economic environment faced by Turkey. A work
program agreed with the Bank and MENR and TEK (para. 71) will support the
11  Under an International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and World Bank program
of assistance. Both IAEA and the Bank have been actively involved in the
work program which forms part of an effort to upgrade skills in
electricity planning using established demand and system supply models.
2I  Compared with 1983 data for the following countries:  Greece (2,892);
Spain (3,000); Portugal (1,929); Yugoslavia (3,177).



3262P                               -  11 -
regular updating of these forecasts. Furthermore technical assistance
including appropriate computer hardware and software will be funded under the
loan (para. 71) to further strengthen MENR's demand forecasting and energy
planning capabilities.
36.      Primary energy demand will be met by imported petroleum products,
natural gas and coal as well as by indigenous lignite, coal and hydro. While
petroleum products will dominate, lignite and natural gas will represent the
most rapid growth in energy supply. With respect to secondary energy,
electricity will be the most important and will be supplied equally by thermal
and hydro plants. Nuclear energy is unlikely to play a role until the
1995-2000 period. At present the Government has no firm plans to introduce
its first nuclear power plant. The energy deficit (para. 42), which has been
a feature of Turkey's economy for more than a decade, should be eliminated by
1990. The key factors in eliminating the deficit will be the rate at which
electricity plants are completed, the timeliness of lignite supplies and the
ability to control demand through improved efficiency.
37.      Figure 1 summarizes the likely supply-demand configurations up to
1995. Annex 7 presents detailed energy balances for 1985, 1990, 1995, 2000
and 2010.
FIGURE I
COMMERCAL ENERGY DEMAND AND SUPPU,1984-1995
MIUJOS OF TONS OF OL EQUVALENT (TOE)
MTOt
IMP. COAL
O                    ~~~~~~~~~ENERGY DEMANN
to-
.40- 7
30- ~~~~~~~~~~PETROLEUM PRODUCTS &  01
20-
10 - _                ~~~~~~~~UGNrE
PRIMARY VEIC. & tMPORTS
1-   1     6   6     8   118  9   9    1   1    9   19
1t9B4 191|5 t9865 1917 tS88 1196 t9906 tSS  tSt2 1993 tS94 1995



3262P                                -  12  -
Institutional trranRements
38.      Energy development in Turkey is dominated by the public sector.  The
Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources (MENR) is responsible for the
planning, coordination and development of energy resources in Turkey. The
Turkish Hard Coal Enterprise (TTK), the Turkish Lignite Enterprise (TKI), the
Turkish Petroleum Corporation (TPAO) and the Mineral Research Institute (NTA)
have responsibility for the extraction of fossil fuels and radioactive
materials. Design and construction of public sector hydroelectric projects is
entrusted to the State Hydraulics Authority (DSI). The Turkish Electricity
Authority (TEK) is responsible for the generation, transmission and
distribution of almost all tho electricity sold in Turkey. TEK is also
responsible for the implementation of the Government's program of rural
electrification and the construction of all public sector generating and
transmission facilities, with the exception of public sector hydroelectric
plants for which DSI has responsibility. The produwtion, transport and
marketing of petroleum products are the responsibilities of TUPRAS (four
refineries), BOTAS (pipelines) and Petrol Ofisi (marketing and distribution).
The Electricity Survey Administration (EIE) is responsible for renewable
energy, hydropower surveys and research work. In addition, in 1986 EIE was
given full authority to plan and implement the country's energy conservation
program (para. 92).
39.      Private sector participation in the energy sector has been limited to
two small electricity utilities (CEAS and KEPEZ), a limited number of
industrial autoproducers, some small coal mines, one refinery, joint ventures
in petroleum exploration and some petroleum product marketing and distribution
activities.
The Development of EnerKy Poicy inTrkey
Energy Policy in the 1970s
40.      During this period the Government's energy policy was almost totally
dominated by supply considerations. Pricing policy (with the exception of
petroleum products which broadly reflected economic costs throughout the
period), demand management and energy conservation were all relegated to low
priority. The exigencies of a policy of energy supply at all costs to feed a
rapidly growing and largely unconstrained demand resulted, in turn, in the
abandonment of systematic maintenance and operations procedures, as well as a
tendency to invest in some projects, especially lignite, which were of
doubtful economic viability.
41.      Until the international oil price increases of the 1970s Turkey's
energy economy was largely oil based, almost wholly import dependent and, at
least as far as electricity was concerned, at a relatively low level of per
capita consumption. Investment in energy was largely confined to thermal oil
fired power plants and a small number of hydro projects. The negligible
investment in lignite was primarily for local household consumption. As a
result investment in energy until the early-1970Os ranged from about
1.5 percent to 1.8 percent of GDP, the bulk of which was for electric power.



3262P                                -  13  -
42.      The international oil price increases of the mid-1970s precipitated a
dramatic change in energy policy in Turkey. Oil imports, which were only
US$200 million in 1970, jumped to US$3.5 billion in each of the years from
1979 to 1984. The response by Turkish policy makers was to attempt to
curtail, through substitution, the level of energy imports by embarking on a
massive program of indigenous resource development, especially lignite and
hydropower and also developing to the maximum extent possible oil, gas and
geothermal resources. The program aimed at increasing lignite production 8
fold in 10 years and hydro power capacity was planned to increase by
300 percent between 1980 and 1990. Energy investment showed a dramatic
increase in the post 1975 period and by 1984 had peaked at about 40 percent of
total public fixed investment and 3.0 percent of GDP. That the program failed
to meet its policy makers' ambitious targets is, in retrospect, hardly
surprising. Various Bank reports in the early 1980s concluded that
"... resources, human and financial, have been spread too thinly over too many
projects in the investment program", and this resulted in "... major supply
interruptions, project delays, frequent and protracted plant breakdowns and
unacceptably high losses". Furthermore the policy of import substitution by
indigenous resources proved to be high risk since shortfalls in electricity
supply could not be met, for technical reasons related to system stability, by
electricity imports. This lack of flexibility had caused, by the early-1980s,
a substantial energy deficit. The sector's problems had reached crisis
proportions - problems that were deep rooted, and almost all linked to a
myriad of inefficient practices in the public sector energy agencies in
planning, implementation, financing and operations. The public sector had, by
the end of the 1970s, an almost total monopoly in energy supply. The lignite
sector had been nationalized in the early-1970s and statutory barriers to
private electricity investment assured TEK's monopoly.
Energy Policy since 1984
43.      In response to the above problems, the Government in 1984 adopted a
set of policy initiatives aimed at adjustment in the sector over the medium
term. Government assigned the highest priority to the energy sector and to
investments that would reduce the energy deficit and costs of supply. The
strategy for the development of the sector was developed during the
preparation of the Fifth Five Year Plan (1984-1989). In line with the
priorities of the structural adjustment program (import liberalization,
investment rationalization and an enhanced role for the private sector) the
following were identified in the Development Plan as key areas to be addressed:
(a) priority would be given to domestic sources of energy, especially
hydro and lignite, when economically justified;
(b) to lessen the risk of supply failures through diversification of
sources, the economic case for projects based on imported energy,
especially gas and coal, would be examined;
(c) private sector financing, both local and foreign, would be sought for
participation in energy development;



3262P                                -  14  -
(d) conservation through indirect (pricing) as well as direct
(non-pricing) measures would be supported;
(e) energy SEEs would be given greater financial autonomy especially in
setting output prices; and
(f)  the public investment program for energy would be rationalized by
focusing on priority projects and priority subsectors.
44.      The Development Plan, however, provided only a broad framework but
encompassed no specific actiQns. In early 1984, following extensive
discussions with the energy sector agencies, the Bank prepared an Energy
Sector Strategy Paper which was discussed with Government and subsequently
agreed upon-'.  The strategy paper focused upon a number of urgent actions
needed in the energy sector including the completion of specific ongoing
projects in an advanced stage of construction; the upgrading of existing
facilities through improved maintenance, rehabilitation and loss reduction
investments; the introduction of economic pricing for energy products; a more
vigorous energy conservation program focused initially on the energy intensive
industrial sector; and, identification of opportunities for private sector
participation in the sector.
45.      Government has now embarked upon the implementalion of a program to
meet the Development Plan's objectives for the sector while retaining
consistency with the overall thrust of the structural adjustment program. The
Government's energy sector strategy to be supported by the proposed loan is
summarized in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex 3) and provides a medium
term framework that addresses three interdependent sets of issues. The first
focuses upon actions to improve the institutional framework of the sector.
The second focuses on actions to ensure that economic investments are made in
the sector. The third focuses upon the efficient use of energy resources in
particular in pricing policy, efficient energy use in the industrial sector
and measures to improve the operational efficiency of the sector. The
Government has, in consultation with the Bank, reviewed its overall sectoral
strategy in light of the recent reduction in international oil prices and has
concluded that it has not affected substantively the strategy or policies for
the energy sector (Annex 9). Part III provides more detail on Government's
energy sector program. A summary of the program is given in Annex 4.
1/ Turkey - Energy Sector Strategy Paper; Report number 4973-TU, dated
September, 1984.



3262P                               -  15  -
PART m - THE SECTORAL ADJUSTMEfT PROGRAM
Energy and the Macro Framework
46.      The energy sector occupies a central pdint in the Government's
structural adjustment program:                  e
(a) the cost, timeliness and availability of energy is of critical
importance to the competitiveness of the industrial sector and hence
to the Government's overall export drive;
(b) energy is the largest sectoral consumer of public funds and absorbs
about one third of the resources available for public investment.
Improving the quality of investment in the sector is therefore a
cornerstone of Government's policy to rationalize public investment;
(c) the energy sector has considerable potential for foreign exchange
savings through policies directed at improving the efficiency of
energy utilization and through the substitution of imported energy by
economically viable indigenous resources;
(d) the energy sector is an important vehicle for domestic resource
mobilization through appropriate pricing and fiscal policies. For
example in 1985 taxes on petroleum products amounted to 7 percent of'
central government tax revenues; and
(e) the energy sector has been identified as a priority candidate for
implementing Government policies towards private investment. The
sector has potential for a wide range of opportunities for both
domestic and foreign private sector participation.
The Policy Framework and Government Obiectives
47.      While the broad policy framework in the sector is largely in place, a
number of issues still need to be addressed - further actions need to be taken
to make the public energy agencies more independent and accountable, the
regulatory framework defining the rules for private investors is embryonic in
nature and restrictive in practice; actual investment allocations are
sometimes contrary to stated policies; and investment planning, although
improved, remains weak. Furthermore, considerable efforts will be needed by
Government to maintain progress made thus far in energy pricing policy, and
improvements in the structure of prices, especially for electricity, are
needed.



3262P                               -  16  -
48.      The Government's strategy provides a medium-term framework that
addresses the three interdependent jets of issues (para. 45). Government's
long term objectives in implementing its strategy are to:
Institutional Framework
(a) move from the present practice of direct control of the sector to a
broader regulatory framework in which the rules of investment aud
operational behaviour are well defined and agencies, public and
private, operate in a relatively independent environment;
(b) provide a policy framework whereby public sector energy agencies
would operate efficiently and have access to a broader range of
private and public financing;
(c) increase private investment in all aspects of the energy sector's
development through direct investment, joint ventures, leasing
arrangements and management contracts provided that such activities
are complementary to the public sector's efforts and in line with
national least cost development objectives;
Economic Investments
(d) develop a strong energy planning and coordination capability within
Government;
(e) ensure that, irreapective of sources of finance, future energy
requirements are met through investments at least cost to the economy;
(f) ensure that indigenous energy resources are exploited sequentially
according to strict economic principles;
Improved Efficiency
(g) ensure maximum operating efficiency in all energy agencies through
good operating practices, adequate maintenance and spare parts and
highly trained operators;
(h) achieve economic pricing policies while measures will be taken to
ensure that the costs of inefficiency will not be passed on to the
final consumer; and
(i) implement policies and programs to encourage the maximum effect of
economically viable energy conservation and demand management
measures, through both pricing and non-pricing means.



3262P                                -  17  -
The Program
A. The Institutional Framework
49.      One of the most difficult issues now faced by the Government is the
process of encouraging optimal private investment while stimulating the public
sector to achieve greater efficiency and financial viability. While the
private sector can contribute a substantive proportion of incremental energy
supply, the public sector will, over the medium term, continue to dominate the
energy sector. Furthermore, few large scale private sector projects are under
implementation and even these will not be completed before 1990. Government's
efforts to encourage private investment have focused on the electric power and
lignite subsectors. As a consequence neither TEK nor TKI was allowed to
include new electric power generation or mine development projects in their
respective 1985 and 1986 investment programs. For 1987 this policy has been
relaxed since the level of private investment has been lower than
anticipated. TEK has had plans approved for extensions to existing plant and
is currently preparing a proposal, to be included in its 1988 program, for the
construction of a new thermal power plant based on natural gas (para. 65).
Policies for the Public Sector
50.      While the public sector will continue to dominate the energy sector
the elimination of statutory barriers to competition for electric power and
lignite provides opportunities for public enterprise reform. Public
enterprise reform is an important component of Government's structural
adjustment program. The objectives of the reforms are to permit greater
autonomy and improved productivity at the enterprise level and to increase
capital flows to the sector. Since 1984 Government efforts have been largely
geared to introducing a less restrictive legal framework under which the
energy SEEs could operate. A number of far reaching amendments to laws
affecting the public energy sector have been put into effect recently.
51.      In order to attract private finance, energy SEEs can now share
ownership in energy projects (primarily it electric power and mining) through
"participations", in which the SEE would hold from 15 percent to 50 percent of
the shares; or in "affiliated partnerships", in which the SEE would hold a
majority of the shares. The Government is considering several proposals from
the private sector to enter into these types of joint ventures (para. 59).
Further efforts to mobilize resources for the sector were made in 1984 when
Government established the Public Participation Fund (under Law 2983) and
allowed it to issue revenue-sharing certificates associated with existing
infrastructure facilities. In 1985, it issued its first certificates
associated with the Keban and Oymapinar hydropower projects and these were
sold within two days. The Fund has used its resources effectively by funding
high priority hydroelectric projects under construction (e.g. Karakaya,
Kapulkaya, Menzelet, Catalan, Gezende, Adiguzel) to assure a steady flow of
local funds to contractors and to advance completion schedules.



3262P                                -  18  -
52.      A generic problem in almost all SEEs has been the difficulty of
attracting and retaining skilled manpower. The problem is particularly acute
in the energy sector where engineers and technicians have opportunities for
employment in the higher paid private sector. Until recently SEE managers had
very little room to reward performance and pay competitive salaries for needed
skills. However in 1985 Government introduced a new basis of employment
within SEEs: the annual renewable contract (ARC) which allows the rates of
remuneraticn to be set at levels significantly above current Government
payscales. The new system is designed to build into SEEs personnel
performance monitoring (currently non-existent), a capacity to fire (presently
virtually impossible) and a capacity to adjust rates of pay to market rates.
At present few employees in the energy SEEs have transferred to the ARC system
since neither rates of pay nor annual evaluation procedures have yet been
determined for most positions, although efforts to do so are underway. It is
too early to assess the impact of this new remuneration system although
clearly it represents an important departure from past practices. At present
however, only about 1,000 staff employed in TEK are retained on an ARC basis
although TEK's personnel dnpartment believes that by end 1988 90 percent of
staff offered the option will opt to be employed on the ARC basis.
53.      In connectior with the appraisal of the proposed loan, the Bank
carried out a review of the institutional framework governing the energy
sector. In line with Government policy, the review focused upon the electric
subsector. Government has placed high priority on reforms within the electric
power subsector in part due to increased public pressure and scrutiny on TEK
following a series of large tariff increases over the past eighteen months,
and in part because it is by far the largest and most important agency in the
energy sector. A report was prepared and discussed with Government. The
report concluded that while considerable progress had been made in reforming
the energy SEEs there were two areas where further progress was desirable:
increased public accountability; and a need to focus on priority tasks to
avoid overcommitment of scarce manpower.
54.      The major comment of the report related to the fact that the degree
of public accountability in the public electric sector was so low that
inefficiencies could easily be masked. Furthermore since there is little
public confidence in the energy SEEs, the policy objective of mobilizing
additional resources through increased access to capital markets, whether
local or foreign, was severely constrained. The report identified several
internal organizational weaknesses (in TEK) but argued that influencing the
external environment under which the agency operates was the key to further
organizational reform. Two immediate ac'tions were identified to help TEK
achieve a higher degree of acceptability. The first related to the
introduction of external financial audits, comparable to those required by
private companies registered under the Capital Markets Board. If TEK is to
gain financial credibility with lenders both in Turkey or abroad, it will be
indispensable to engage auditors of international repute with knowledge and
experience of international accounting principles and auditing standards.
Government has agreed to implement this recommendation and will recruit
auditors by October, 1987 to prepare a full audit of the 1988 accounts. Such
audits will subsequently be on a routine annual basis and will be incorporated



3262P                                -  19  -
into TEK's published annual reports (starting in 1988), to be available to the
public.  While external audits have recently been introduced for state owned
commercially oriented banks, this would be the first external audit conducted
in any SEE.
55.      The second action to improve public accountability and acceptability
relates to the need to strengthen the policy functions of the TEK Board and
bring in a wider view to ensure that the Board itself is outward looking. At
present the Board operates more as a management committee dealing with day to
day issues and does not set broad policy. In order to strengthen the
policy-making functions of TEK's board the Government is recanstituting it by
appointing more senior Government staff not otherwise involved in the sector.
Two appointments have already been announced and another will follow shortly.
A new chairman of the Board, with wide experience in both the private sector
and other public sector enterprises, has also been appointed. Government will
instruct the new Board to undertake a study of the top level structure of TEK
including a review of the reiationship between the Board and its General
Management and between the TEK central organization and other organizational
units (e.g. the regional distribution enterprises). It is expected that the
Board will make its recommendations to Government by early 1988. During
tranche review the Bank will assess the extent to which TEK's Board has made
progress towards assuming its role as an effective policy making body.
56.      A second general conclusion reached in the renort was that public
agencies have typically spread their manpower and financial resources over too
large an investment portfolio. Considerable gains in efficiency would occur
if these agencies focused on a more limited number of higher priority
activities and devolved responsibility for some activities to the private
sector. Government has made considerable progress in addressing this issue
both through rationalizing the energy investment program (para. 75) and in
focusing attention upon improved implementation and project management. For
example the introduction of turnkey/full management contracts (e.g. Thrace
Combined Cycle Plant) has led to speedier project implementation. TKI has
been instructed by Government to focus its future efforts on a portfolio of
high priority projects and for all other smaller mines not serving power
plants (approximately 13) would, to the extent possible, enter into lease
agreements with interested private companies. Furthermore, all new mine
developments would, where possible, be undertaken either by the private sector
or through joint ventures with private partners.
Policies for Private Sector Participation
57.      Government policy is concerned with both privatization, that is the
transfer of public assets to the private sector, and liberalization, that is
the removal of barriers to private sector participation. The policy has a
number of objectives:
(a) reduction in public sector spending;
(b) efficiency improvements, through increased competition in the
construction and operation of plant;



3262P                                -  20  -
(c) increased foreign and local capital flows through direct investment;
and
(d) resource mobilization through the sale of public assets.
58.      Government policy in this regard is supported by two laws (Law 3096
for electric power and Law 3213 for minerals including coal, lignite and
uranium)¢ The laws in turn are supported by a series of regulations which
provide guidelines for implementation. Since the laws provide only a general
framework it is the regulations which provide substance for review, discussion
and interpretation.  At present, decrees have been issued or are under
detailed discussion for regulations governing Law 3096 only. Six potential
"institutional models" are emerging:
(a)  "Build, Operate and Turnover" (BOT), where private consortia assemble
financing, construct and operate for a specified period a
limited-recourse enclave electric power generation project. At the
end of the contractual period, normally specified as the date of
completion of all debt service obligations, the Project would be
transferred to the public sector. The main organizing framework
would be the electricity sales agreement which would, under agreed
levels of plant availability, cover operational costs and debt
servicing obligations as well as provide a real return to the equity
shareholders;
(b) "Regional Utilities" as fully integrated private regional utilities
responsible for generation, transmission and distribution within
specified geographical areas;
(c) "Concession Agreements", exemplified by the present arrangements
between Government and the Cukurova (CEAS) and Antalya (Kepez)
utilities which are permitted, within concession areas, to construct
power plants and sell directly to high and medium voltage consumers;
(d)  "Autoproducers" in the industrial sector who construct and operate
for their own consumption as well as sell surplus electricity and/or
heat in the case of Combined Heat and Power (CHP) schemes to TEK, the
Regional Utilities, or other purchasers;
(e)  "Leasing and Operating Contracts" covering both the lignite and
electric power subsectors; and
(f) the privatization, through sale of assets, of one or more public
sector energy enterprises. Some enterprises (most notably BOTAS,
TUPRAS and POAS) would be suitable candidates for partial or total
privatization. However this is likely to occur only over the long
term and currently other higher priority sectors and/or public
enterprises are receiving Government attention.
59.      The laws have only recently come into effect and the present
regulations will require modification and refinement. However, over 50



3262P                               -  21  -
appLicatious to build and operate power plants have been received by
SPO/KN. These range from expressions of interest to a limited number of
firm proposals and include three large imported-coal-fired steam plants.
Forty seven hydro projects ranging in site from 1 MW to 250 MW, of which five
have recently been approved by MEMNR; and one thermal power plant based on
domestic lignite (210 MW), approved in principle by MINI. An additional 15
projects have been submitted by SPO to the private sector for bids, including
some projects currently in the public Investment program. In addition both
CMAS and Kepez (the two established private utilities) are in the process of
investing in generating plant. The Government's position is to place greater
priority at this stage on actually coacluding a number of project deals. This
reflects a perceived need to remove bureaucratic inertia and non-commitment as
well as provide an unambiguous signal of Government intentions to the private
sector,
60.      The key issue to be addressed by Government is whether the set of
"privatization objectives" is feasible and compatible with the objectives of
the development and operation of economic least cost sources of energy
supply. The two sets of policy objectives imply a change in the relationship
within the sector between the public and private sector. They also imply that
the instruments of public policy will need to be broadened to include a
greater reliance on fiscal and regulatory frameworks. While the Government's
policy changes have introduced an innovative element to energy policy, efforts
to ensure that private sector investments are constructed at minimum economic
cost and are operated efficiently and on economic grounds, will be needed. As
the private sector of the electricity supply industry develops, a matter of
growing importance will be the complex interrelations between this and the
public sector. There are six main aspects of the private/public sector
interface:
(a)  The Buyer-Seller Relationship.  TEK will buy the output from the
privately owned hydro and thermal schemes, while there will be trade
between TEK and the regional utilities. Although it is possible that
initial contracts, with TEK as co-signatory, could regulate the
former two types of transactions, several problems related to the
terms and conditions of the transactions could arise. It would
therefore be desirable to have a regulatory body with a general
monitoring function which could also be used to arbitrate on price
changes.
(b) Common interests. Retail tariffs will be regulated by Government and
are likely to be equalized across the country. Given cost variations
across regions (assuming the emergence of regional utilities), this
raises several technical issues. There will presumably be some
system of cross-subsidization of high cost areas by low cost areas or
a differential taxation. In any event, all producers will have a
comwoa interest in the level of the tariff and the design of the
redistribution mechanism. This interest may also extend to, for
example, the supply of investment funds. The Government will need a
means for discussing these issues with the electricity industry.



3262P                                -  22  -
(c) Competition. Although the private and public sectors will not
compete in the output market, they may well be in competition for
inputs such as key personnel and capital. Furthermore where the
electricity sector is organized on a regional monopoly basis, there
may be a tendency for the sum of pl.inned regional capacity expansions
to exceed the estimated requirements for the country as a whole.
Given the relative scarcity of overall investment funding, a central
view will be needed on the consistency of plans of the different
regional utilities and private power plant owners, as well as the
preparation of contingency plans for public investment in the event
of shortfalls in private investment. This places an even greater
emphasis on coordination and regulation.
(d)  Planning and System Operation.  The dynamic nature of the electricity
sector, in which flexibility is needed to optimize dispatch both over
time and spatially may be jeopardized if contractual arrangements
between the public and private sector are inflexible. This places
considerable emphasis upon the development of appropriate evaluative
criteria and contractual arrangements.
(e) Comparison. An advantage of having a number of different enterprises
supplying the same outputs, even if not in competition, is that it
provides for comparison of cost levels, operating efficiencies, etc.
Although of course allowance may have to be made for factors which
could objectively cause differences in costs, for example population
densities, raw material transport costs, etc., a central regulatory
body would be able to make use of comparative data in monitoring
enterprise efficiency.
(f) Equity participation: TEK plans to take an equity share in some
private sector projects. It already holds an equity share in both of
the regional concessionaires (CEAS, Kepez). This obviously blurs the
distinction between the TEK and non-TEK sectors, and may well be the
means by which TEK could retain overall control of the electricity
supply system. To that extent, a major aim of the privatization
program, that of providing a "competitive" or at least a
"comparative" stimulus to TEK efficiency, may be weakened. The
regulation of existing equity holdings and future acquisitions will
therefore require careful consideration by Government.
(g) Asset Valuation. If regional utilities were created, an immediate
problem to be resolved would be the valuation of any assets which may
be leased or sold by TEK to the non-TEK sector. The current
methodology for valuation suffers from a number of deficiencies and
regulations are needed to formulate a satisfactory methodology.
61.      Further progress in attracting private capital to the sector will
require a regulatory climate that is perceived to be stable, consistent, and
well defined. At present the regulations are ambiguous, ill-defined and
provide little incentive for private sector participation. However to provide
a foundation for developing a rational regulatory framework and a focal point



3262P                                -  23  -
for dealing with the private sector Government established, in 1986, a
regulatory body to oversee the electricity subsector. The body is attached to
MENR and builds upon an existing department. A three-year work agenda has
been prepared which includes: the preparation of regulations for private
investors; the preparation of regulations for leasing arrangements; monitoring
and evaluation systems; guidelines for dealing with various issues likely to
arise between the public and private system including comparable treatment and
implementation of an efficiency audit of TEK. Consultants will be hired
shortly to provide technical assistance, advisory services and training to
MENR.
B. Economic Investment
62.      The planning and investment issues center around the adequacy of
institutional arrangements for planning; the level and capability of
subsectoral planning, and the rationalization of energy investment programs
and the development of least cost plans, including the development of
indiget.ous resources.
Institutional Arrangements for Planning
63.      The institutional arrangements for planning and implementation in the
energy sector are, on the whole, appropriate. Key energy agencies (e.g., TKI,
TEK, EIE, DSI) retain independence in day to day management, the Ministry of
Energy (MENR) functions as overseer, coordinator and policy planner; and SPO
screens, evaluates and approves investments. The quality of planning at the
subsectoral level is variable although, in almost all cases, there is room for
improvement, and programs to upgrade planning skills are underway in many
agencies, most notably TEK, TUPRAS and TKI. Subsectoral planning is however
myopic and it is the role of MENR to place subsectoral plans in the broader
energy context. MENR has made major efforts in consolidating its role as
coordinator; its Planning and Coordinating Department has been strengthened
and significant improvements in coordination have resulted for example between
TKI and TEK. Nevertheless, some coordination problems still remain, e.g.,
delays in fuel supply projects (gas, lignite) for power generation,
coordination of investments to utilize imported natural gas, etc. Such
planning and policy issues are substantive and cannot typically be addressed
at the subsector agency level but only at the Ministry level.
64.      To ensure that MENR will be able to provide a fully integrated energy
planning, strategic and policy formulation service for Government policy
makers and to improve sector planning at the national level including the
integration of subsectoral plans, the Government plans to strengthen the
Energy Planning and Coordination Department of MENR through a program of
technical assistance and staff training. MENR has submitted to the Bank for
review and funding under the loan terms of reference for technical assistance
and training, implementation of appropria.e energy planning models and
consultancy services. The Bank would monitor progress throughout the
implementation of the agreed program which is expected to last approximately
three years.



3262P                                -  24  -
The Oil and Gas Subsector
65.      Gas Utilization.  Natural gas imports from the Soviet Union are to
begin in 1988, beginning at about 150 MSCFT/day and rising to about
600 MSCFT/day in 1992. Some decisions have been taken on gas utilization and
a longer term strategy is under preparation. In the short run the Trakya 1
combined cycle plant (600 MW) will be a major consumer in 1988 (80-100
MSCFT/day). Other identified consumers are the Gemlik/IGSAS fertilizer plant
(70 MSCFT/day), Istanbul and Ankara distribution (30-70 MSCFT/dsy), the
Eskisehir steel plant (30 MSCFT/day) and an extension of 600 MW at the Trakya
power plant. The major consumer capable of absorbing the balance of the gas
relatively quickly will be the power sector and TEK is currently preparing
plans for construction of a 1,200 MW combined cycle plant to be located near
Istanbul.
66.      A gas utilization strategy also has downstream investment
implications, not yet explicitly included fully in the 1987-1990 indicative
plans. In addition to the costs of conversion of existing facilities (e.g.,
IGSAS, Gemlik, etc.), new investments (e.g., electric power generation and
associated transmission, gas distribution) will be required. In the case of
urban distribution, key technical and institutional questions are being
addressed, especially the choice of a safe and cost efficient system,
organizational arrangements for planning, implementing and marketing the gas,
and training and recruitment of staff. The Government has however recently
established a steering committee to coordinate fully all of these activities
and develop a rationai gas utilization plan. It is headed by the State
Minister for Petroleum Affairs and a detailed utilization plan will be
prepared by December 31, 1987. The plan will be sent to the Bank for review
and comment.
67.      The Refinery Subsector.  Natural gas will largely substitute liquid
petroleum products - potentially 5 million toe by 1990. This will have
important implications on the petroleum products energy balance and refinery
configuration. The refinery industry has substantial surplus of primary
distillation capacity (about 55 percent of 1986 demand). Despite this
overcapacity in primary distillation facilities, the industry is unable to
match demand patterns due to the absence of secondary processing facilities to
improve the yield of premium value, middle distillate products. The import of
natural gas, which is largely to replace fuel oil, will exacerbate these
imbalances. The Government now proposes to analyze the impact of gas
displacement snd to address the severe imbalances and overcapacity problems
(22 million toe by 1990, undercapacity for some middle distillates, excess
capacity of fuel oil) that exist in the refinery subsector. TUPRAS, the
agency created to coordinate and plan the refining subsector, has recognized
the need for further detailed planning work in this area and has been
receptive to Bank sector work assistance and advice.-' Furthermore, TUPRAS
is, at the request of SPO, in the process of preparing a refinery masterplan
and has requested Bank assistance. As the major input to the masterplan, a
1/ A Refineries Sector Study prepared by Bank staff in connection with the
proposed loan was discussed with Government authorities in February, 1987.



3262P                                -  25  -
detailed petroleum products supply options study will be undertaken which, in
light of the impact of gas penetration in the petroleum product balance, the
likely growth scenarios of petroleum demand and future pricing policies, and
Government policy on privatization, would:
(a) review the existing and planned refinery configuration and identify
policy issues and investment strategies (production as well as
marketing and distribution) required for the restructuring of the
subsector;
(b) analyze the potential for efficiency improvements (including energy
efficiency) in the operation of the subsector;
(c) assess the implications for privatization in the subsector; and
(d) prepare a set of specific actions required over the medium term.
68.      The Bank has approved both the terms of reference for the study and
the short list of consultants. Completion of the study is expected by
December 1987 and the results of the study will lead to the preparation of
detailed investment plans for 1988 and beyond. The first phase of the study
will focus upon urgently needed investments to improve efficiency and will
provide Government with an economic analysis of all key refinery projects
committed but not yet implemented. The second phase will focus on the medium
to long term investment requirements and on institutional strengthening in
TUPRAS in the areas of refinery planning and investment analysis.
The Electricity Subsector
69.      Two years ago a Bank sector study+' concluded that electricity
planning procedures and practices were deficient in a number of areas. The
main comments were that demand tended to be over-estimated as a result of
unrealistic economic growth assumptions and lack of analysis of the likely
impact of demand management and pricing policy on growth-in demand, and on the
supply side that investment requirements were too high; the construction
schedules for major power plant options, were optimistic; and cost data for
major power plant options, thermal and especially hydro, were either
inadequately prepared or underestimated and not on a comparable basis.
Furthermore, the report identified deficiencies in data collection procedures.
70.      MENR and TEK have now given emphasis to upgrading electricity
planning skills, and a whole series of coordinated technical assistance,
training and system development activities are underway:
(a) Demand Manageient - TEK has hired consultants to assist in
(1) developing an improved system for the measurement, collection and
analysis of data required for load analysis and demand forecasting;
1/ Turkey - Electricity Planning and Investment, Volume 1, Report
No. 5431A-TU, dated June 26, 1985.



3262P                                -  26  -
(2) establishing models which can simulate the effects of various
strategies for load management including pricing; (3) developing a
demand management and conservation action program; and (4) training
of TEK staff. The first phase of the consultants' work program has
been completed, initial training in Germany for about twenty TEK
staff has been given, and implementation of the main phase of the
work program is expected to be completed by the end of 1987.
(b)  Demand Projections - As noted above the joint MENR/TEK team has
prepared a set of long-term demand projections and the final report
on the team's analysis has been prepared. There has been extensive
collaboration between the consultants and the MENR/TEK team in the
preparation of the projections.
(c) Least Cost Generation Study - A TEK planning team has prepared a
revised least cost planning study based upon the demand projections
as outlined above. The work program included:
(i)   The preparation, in 1986, by TEK of a least cost long-term
generation plan which evaluated power generation options over a
25-year plan period and was used in selecting projects for the
1987 investment program;
(ii)   The development, over the next two years, of a detailed hyvro
resource inventory based upon an engineering and economic review
of each feasibility and/or prefeasibility study to update and
place costs on a comparable basis and rank all hydro projects
according to well established economic and engineering
criteria. Detailed terms of reference and work plan have been
developed for the task, which will be financed under a World
Bank loan (2655-TU). The results of the study will be used to
update and revise the least cost plan (para. 71); and
(iii)   TEK has completed its first masterplan study for the electricity
distribution system of a major city (Izmir) and has initiated
similar studies for Ankara and Istanbul. Given the high
technical losses in the urban networks these studies are
critical in providing a basis for the systematic upgrading of
the distribution systems, including a loss reduction program.
Implementation of the Izmir masterplan is a very high priority
as a model for other cities.
(d) Miscellaneous Studies - The implementation, within TEK, of various
technical assistance activities to improve manpower planning and
human resource development, and management information systems.
71.       TEK's work program for the various planning activities is fully
coordinated by a task force composed of planning staff from MENR and TEK. It
represents a significant improvement compared with the lack of a cohesive work
program of a few years ago. In addition to the output of the planning studies
and their influence upon investment selection the above technical assistance



3262P                                    27  -
activities have also provided extensive training opportunities for TEK's
staff. The task force, in collaboration with IAEA and the Bank, has reached
agreement on a further work program for revising and updating the electricity
generation plans, including the development, in Turkey, of a new model to
better evaluate and integrate hydro projects into the least cost program. The
work program will be supported under the proposed loan. The revised plans
will be prepared by December 31, 1987 and 1988 respectively. Any new
generation projects proposed to be included in the 1988 and 1989 investment
program would need to be demonstrated to be part of these revised plans. With
respect to the distribution studies, the annual investment program for 1987
reflects fully the tindings of the Izmir masterplan and the masterplan studies
for Istanbul and Ankara are progressing satisfactorily. A particular
characteristic of the distribution planning efforts has been the progressive
shift in task responsibilities from the consultant to TEK staff. It is
expected that, for the next set of city masterplans (Adana, Bursa), TEK staff
would be largely responsible for their preparation.
Energy Exploration and Development -
Providing a Long Term Foundation for Energy Policy
72.       The develo-.ent of a solid data base of indigenous resources is not
only important in terms of overall energy strategy but also provides guidance
to the timing and relative economic priority of investments- The key
resources are hydro, lignite, and oil and gas. As noted in para. 70, MENR is
to implement a national hydro resource inventory.
73.       Oil and Gas Exploration.  Almost half of Turkey's land area is
comprised of sedimentary basins with petroleum potential. In addition, there
are some 500,000 sq. km. of offshore sedimentary basins with petroleum
prospects. The petroleum geology of Turkey is complex and the main oil
producing areas are in the south east. TPAO has been continuously exploring
for hydrocarbons since 1954, but the diminishing returns in the recent past
have led to the need for new initiatives in exploration. Sophisticated
seismic data acquisition and processing combined with exploratory drilling for
testing stratigraphic traps have resulted in new finds. Drilling rigs have
been reconditioned for deeper depth capabilities. In 1983 the Petroleum Law
was amended to provide liberal incentives for joint ventures and TPAO was
active in seeking such ventures. By 1985, of 280 licences for exploration,
158 were held by TPAO, 11 by joint ventures with TPAO and 111 by foreign oil
companies. In the 1987-1989 period these initiatives will be further pursued
by carrying exploration to new areas, namely, all the offshore basins and
specific priority onshore basins. A long term perspective exploration plan
has been prepared by TPAO outlining these new strategies. It has been
reviewed by the Bank and found to be satisfactory. TPAO currently has about
40,000 kms. of seismic profiles for major offshore blocks (Black See, Sea of
Marmara, Aegean, and Mediterranean) as well as for two priority onshore basins
(Salt Lake and North of Adana). TPAO proposes to hire consultants in 1987 to
analyze, collate and, if required, reprocess data as well as prepare
promotional packages for possible joint ventures.



3262P                               -  28  -
74.       Coal and Lignite Exploration.  The lignite development program has
slowed down considerably as a result of the re-evaluation and subsequent
postponement of several marginally economic mines (para. 75). However MTA and
TKI have prepared a medium term (five year) lignite exploration program which
has been reviewed by the Bank and found to be satisfactory.
Medium-Term Investment Program
75.       In addition to the efforts to upgrade energy planning skills and the
development of energy policies reflecting the growth of the energy sector over
the longer term, Government has also recognized the need to implement a medium
term energy investment program based upon high priority investments and
supported by a rational financing plan. The concept of a "core" public
investment programr' has been highlighted in several Bank supported sector
and macro-economic reports. Furthermore, as agreed under Loan 2586-TU, the
Bank and Government have held annual consultations since 1984 on the
electricity subsector investment program. These discussions have focused on
the size and composition of the investment program, the relative economic
viability of new power projects and efficiency improvements to existing
plant. Particular attention has been given to reviewing those power plants
fueled by lignite. Government has taken steps, based upon its own
re-evaluation, to postpone several lignite projects that were considered
marginal (Beysehir, Saray, Cannakale Can) and to delay the decision regarding
the introduction of a nuclear plant at Akkuyu. Furthermore investment in
efficiency improvements in generation and distribution has been given
priority.
76.       In consultation with Government the Bank prepared a detailed review
of the energy sector public investment program&'. The review covered all
subsectors and provided detailed working papers on electric power, lignite and
coal, and oil and gas. In addition, as noted above (para. 67) a separate
review of the refinery investment program was prepared and discussed with
Government in 1987. The work program resulted in an agreed core investment
program for the energy sector over the next three years. This was based upon
an in-depth review of the physical status of major projects in the program, an
economic evaluation of the relative priorities of the projects in the program,
and judgements made on the appropriate balance between rehabilitation and
modernization of existing plant, loss reduction, efficiency investments and
new projects. The financial requirements of the program were estimated on the
basis of project by project projections and then compared in total with the
estimates of macro resource availability. The result was the development of a
priority medium term investment program consistent with overall Government
targets of financial resources. The program assumed that no major private
sector projects would start in 1987 and that one large new thermal plant based
1/ Broadly defined as a program that should be defended against any
budgetary cuts.
2/   Most recently in:  "Turkey:  Adjusting Public Investment," Raport
No. 6603-TU.



3262P                               -  29  -
on natural gas would start in 1988. However, periodic assessments of the
likelihood of private investment in energy are needed to ensure that the
public investment program is adjusted accordingly.  Annex 5 provides a summary
of the medium term program. The total energy investment requirements for the
three year period are approximately US$8.0 billion, and represent about 30
percent of total public fixed investment.
77.       To monitor progress the Bank would review by October 31 of each year
the annual energy investment program and associated financing plans. The Bank
is in agreement with the size and composition of the 1987 energy program.
Agreement on the 1988 and 1989 programs would be sought by October 31, 1987
and 1988, respectively. Key elements in the discussions of these plans would
be realistic assessments of the level and timing of private investment,
economic analysis of new projects, a review of project management arrangements
for large new projects, and an assurance of funding for continuing ongoing
high priority projects.
C.      e in the uply and                of Rne
78.       Improving the efficiency with which energy is both produced and
consumed remains a high priority for Government. As noted earlier even the
recent precipitous decline in international oil prices has not resulted in any
major departures from a strategy of improvement in energy efficiency. The key
efficiency issues relate to the need to improve operational efficiency within
the public sector; energy pricing policy; and the implementation of an energy
conservation program.
Operational Efficiency
79.       Electric Power.  Improving the efficiency with which existing plant
and equipment are operated has been an important theme in the Bank's energy
sector dialogue with Government. It has many dimensions ranging from
improving human capital through training and manpower development schemes to
reducing technical losses and improving financial performance. Primarily as a
result of pressure to supply energy at any cost, the key energy supply
agencies have, in the past, abandoned systematic maintenance practices with
the result that plant has operated at extremely low levels of utilization and
this, in turn, has led to high operating costs. Government efforts to address
this situation have recently begun and include a Bank financed program (Loan
2602-TU) to upgrade TEK's operations through training, specialized maintenance
equipment, improved performance monitoring, and plant rehabilitation; as well
as the initiatives mentioned earlier to promote private sector involvement in
operations. The Government plans to ensure TEK continues implementation of
the agreed program to upgrade its operational practices and procedures. The
Bank will monitor progress of the agreed program in connection with
supervision of Loan 2602-TU.
80.       Lignite.  In the lignite sub-sector, Government has recently hired
consultants to undertake a comprehensive review of TKI's operating practices
and procedures; analyze the level and condition of operating equipment; review
capacity utilization, operational efficiencies, and maintenance records; and



3262P                                -  30  -
identify actions to improve efficiency and meet scheduled demand over the next
five years. The study has been completed in draft and is currently under
review by Government. The Government will ensure that the appropriate
recommendations are implemented from 1988 onwards. The final report will be
sent to the Bank for review and comment.
81.       Refineries.  The operational efficiency of the refinery sub-sector
has improved since the creation of TUPRAS in 1984. However much remains to be
done before TUPRAS can operate as a truly commercial entity. The first step
toward operational autonomy and improved efficiency is the implementation of a
revised remuneration formula-which provides economic incentive to optimize
operating and investment decisions and incorporates clear guidelines on future
investment, capital structure and dividend policy. At present, prices paid to
the refineries for products delivered to distributors into-depot are set by
GDPA. Out of this gross revenue, the refineries are allowed to retain their
cost of crude acquisition plus a refinery margin per barrel of crude
processed. The refinery margin is set by GDPA and currently varies from
refinery to refinery in the range US$5.00-6.50 per metric ton. This margin is
intended to cover operating and financing costs and a profit margin, although
the basis for setting the margin is unclear and it is often arbitrarily
determined by Government. The approach to setting refinery margins is
unsatisfactory as a basis for commercial refinety operations. Although
increasing throughput or improving plant efficiency would increase profits for
a given margin, Government retains the option of eliminating those profits by
reducing the margin. A revised remuneration formula is needed that provides
an economic incentive to optimize operating and investment decisions.
82.       In a fully liberalized system, the refineries would procure the
crude oils best suited to meet product demand and petroleum products would be
sold at international prices (adjusted for import and excise duties).
Marketing companies would have the freedom to import products, if cheaper to
do so, than buy from the refineries. Under such a system, profits of
refineries would depend on their efficiency and new investment would be driven
by relative product prices in the market place. A totally liberalized system,
as described, would meet Government's desire to reduce its involvement in the
economy and encourage greater private sector involvement. However, there are
several considerations which complicate the matter. To ensure security of
crude oil supply and to stimulate Turkish exports crude oil procurement is
carried on through government-to-government contracts and counter-trade. The
refineries are unlikely to be allowed to optimize crude supply as this runs
counter to larger policy considerations. Nevertheless, an approximation to
the liberalized system is possible, since about 25 percent of crude oil is
presently procured in international markets.
83.       A revision of the current remuneration formula is a high priority
since its introduction is a prerequisite for any major progress toward
liberalization of the refinery subsector and subsequent involvement of the
private sector. Accordingly the Government established in May, 1987 a
steering committee composed of representatives from MENR, GDPA, TUPRAS and
Treasury to set out a program to introduce a new formula. The committee will
prepare by December 31, 1987 its proposals for implementing the new formula
and Goverament is committed to introduce the formula from 1988 onwards.



3262P                                -  31  -
Energv Pricing Policy
84.       Energy pricing policy has been given prominence by Government
especially over the past three years when both lignite and electricity prices
have shown real increases. Appropriate energy pricing policies are important
not only for improving allocative efficiency (investment, choice of technique
and end use), ensuring operational efficiency (e.g., operational dispatch of
electric power) and resource mobilization but must also provide an incentive
for encouraging private investment in the energy sector. Government is
committed to an integrated energy pricing policy based upon the principles of
import parity for tradeables and economic costs of production for
non-tradeables. Flexibility is however required in the implementation of such
a policy since Government objectives of equity (e.g. lifetime tariffs) and
resource mobilization (e.g. petroleum product prices) may, at the margin,
result in divergencies from strict economic pricing principles.
Electricity Prices
85.       In line with Government policy to price energy products closer to
their respective economic costs, bulk rates were increased by about 13 percent
in real terms from 1982 to 1984 and then by 50 percent in real terms in 1985
and early 1986, through a series of regular increases (January, April,
December). By April 1986 the average bulk supply tariff was estimated at
about 90 percent of the LRMC of electricity supply at the high voltage level.
Retail tariffs had lagged somewhat but nevertheless were estimated to be about
70 percent of their respective LRMC. In terms of the financial viability of
the sector TEK either almost achieved or exceeded the financial targets agreed
to under Bank loans"'. Estimated cash generation in 1985 was 44 percent,
and 32 percent in 1986 against annual targets of 35 percent.
86.       In February 1987 an 8.9 percent tariff increase was introduced which
fell below expected inflation estimates (compared with an increase in
wholesale prices of about 30 percent) and is likely to result in internal cash
generation falling to 21 percent for 1987. During negotiations Government
representatives indicated that further power tariff increases during 1987
would be difficult to implement for political reasons. Nonetheless the
Government remained committed to the longer term objectives of achieving
economic pricing, and measures to achieve this would recommence probably in
early 1988. Thus, given the good performance of the Government in raising
power tariffs in 1984, 1985 and early 1986, on a schedule which far exceeded
Bank expectations, it was agreed during negotiations to waive for 1987 the
cash generation target agreed under previous loans, while requiring adherence
to it in 1988 and subsequent years. In the absence of tariff increases over
the remainder of 1987, large tariff adjustments will be required in 1988.
I1   See Loan Agreements for:  Third and Fourth TEK Transmission Projects
(Loans 2322 and 2586-TU), and Power System Operations Assistance Project
(Loan 2602-TU).



3262P                                -  32  -
87.       TEK's consultants have prepared a detailed analysis of both bulk and
low voltage tariffs, including the level and structure of long run marginal
cost (LRMC). The Bank has discussed the study with TEK and an action plan
aimed at improving the tariff structure has been prepared. On the basis of
this study Government will from 1988 onwards start to introduce a rational
electricity tariff policy to include:
(a) periodic tariff adjustments to ensure at least 35 percent internal
cash generation targets are met to move towards economic costs;
(b) a new tariff on the basis of voltage level to replace the existing
tariff based upon customer categories in order that the tariff may
be simplified, and time of day pricing to improve the structure of
tariffs and better reflect marginal costs;
(c) the introduction of adequate metering equipment to ensure consumers
can respond to the new tariff;
(d) the identification of key industries likely to be seriously affected
by electricity costs, especially the iron and steel, ferrochrome and
aluminum sectors and ensure such industries are audited as a matter
of priority for energy efficiency and follow-up actions implemented
as agreed under the proposed conservation program (para. 93); and
(e) a plan to eliminate all electricity tariff subsidies to the
aluminium and ferrochrome industries.
Lignite Prices
88.       Domestic prices declined significantly between 1982 and 1984 but
then rebounded in real terms during 1984 and 1985. The average operating
subsidy which had been approximately US$3.2 per ton in 1983 fell to less than
US$1.0 per ton in 1985. A further real increase in prices in October, 1986
has now eliminated all operating subsidies. It is now Government policy to
maintain prices at levels to mobilize sufficient resources for TKI to become
self financing and ensure that operating subsidies (known as "duty losses" in
Treasury accounts) continue not to be required.
Petroleum Products
89.       Prices of petroleum products are set at levels sufficient to make a
net contribution to Government finances. The weighted average price of
petroleum products in 1985 was approximately 130 percent of the border price.
Almost TL 250 billion it taxes on petroleum products was raised in 1985,
equivalent to about 7 percent of total central Government tax revenues for
that year (Table 1).



3262P                                -  33  -
Table 1
Net Financial Contribution of Petroleum Products, 1985
(TL Billion)
Tax                     Revenue                 Uses
Customs tax                                7      General budget
Petroleum consumption tax (6 percent)    98       52 to Petroleum Consumption
Fund, 46 to general budget
Petroleum price stabilization tax         68      Price Stabilization Fund
Petroleum Exploration tax                 75      Petroleum Exploration Fund
248
Source: Government of Turkey
90.       There are no major problems with the relative prices of petroleum
products, although as part of the petroleum supply options study (para. 67)
the consultants will also study improvements in the relative prices of diesel
and gasoline. It is Government policy that petroleum product prices will
continue to be set at or above the import parity level.
91.       Pricing policy for natural gas will be based on the principle of no
direct or indirect subsidies, that is, the price charged will reflect fully
the import price and costs of internal transportation. However the details of
the structure of prices for natural gas have yet to be formulated although,
given the imminent importation of gas, a pricing policy is urgently needed.
BOTAS and IGDAS are currently preparing natural gas tariff schedules for bulk
supply and for retail consumers in Istanbul. The proposed tariff schedules
will be submitted to the Bank for review and comment by December 31, 1987.
Energy Conservation
92.       The potential for energy conservation, especially in the industrial
sector, is considerable and justified even at the current level of
international oil prices. However, little effort has been made by Government
to mount a sustainable energy conservation nrogram despite the evidence that
major savings would accrue to the economy through the implementation of such a
program. Achieving Government's targets of reducing energy and electricity
intensity (para. 34) cannot be done unless a serious attempt to conserve
energy, both through improved pricing policies and non pricing measures, is
made. Energy conservation has proceeded on a piecemeal basis with a few ad
hoc studies conducted by several departments and agencies. A limited number
of energy audits financed by the Bank under Loan 1916-TU have been completed
and follow-up investments have been made. A constraint to effectively
implementing a cohesive energy conservation program was the fact that the
various activities were institutionally fragmented. To provide a focal point
for all energy conservation activities Government announced in early 1986 that
EIE would be given full authority to design and implement the country's energy



3262P                                -  34  _
conservation program. Legislation to formally transfer this authority has
been prepared and is expected to be submitted to Parliament in 1987. In the
meantime EIE has created a small department to deal with energy couservation
and has assigned suitable technical staff to that department.
93.       During appraisal the Bank and EIE agreed upon a work program to be
implemented by EIE over the next three years. Energy efficiency in 21 key
energy intensive industries was reviewed and savings in the order of
13-17 percent identified. Payback periods for such investments typically
ranged from six to eighteen months. Both the energy audits to be prepared by
consultants and the follow up investments to improve energy efficiency are to
be financed out f loan proceeds. To strengthen ElEs capabilities in energy
conservation planning and implementation, the Bank has approved a detailed
terms of reference and work plan for specialized consultants to provide 5IE
staff with the necessary skills and training. By 1989 FIE should have
developed a strong energy conservation unit.
94.       Finally the TEK study on demand management (para. 70) will be
completed and submitted to MENR and the Bank by December 31, 1987 and, after
review, Government plans to implement its findings from 1988 onwards.
Envroomental
95.       The rapid growth of the energy sector, including the development of
indigenous hydro and lignite resources, has the potential to impose longer
term environmental degradation upon Turkey. Furthermore, proximity to Europe
and an increasing public awareness of environmental degradation is likely,
over the next decade, to lead to a growing public lobby for more stringent
environmental controls in Turkey. Low grade lignite burned for both power
generation (typically rural locations) and domestic and industrial heating
(typically urban locations) is presenting environmental problems of both
sulphur and particulate emissions. Major urban areas, especially Ankara and
Istanbul, suffer from air pollution during winter months. While lignite fired
power stations are equipped with emission controls for dust, the major urban
pollution (dust, sulfur dioxide) is caused by the burning of low grade lignite
for household space heating. The latter problem will be solved only through a
policy of fuel substitution, either to higher grade coal or natural gas in the
case of Ankara and Istanbul, and through more stringent regulations. In
connection with loan appraisal, a working paper on environmental matters was
prepared and subsequently discussed with Government. It focused upon air and
water degradation. The report concluded that the Government has taken
substantive measures to address its environmental problems including the
creation of a Directorate for the Environment (GDE), the passage of an
Environmental Law in 1985, and the subsequent passage of detailed regulations,
particularly with respect to air pollution, noise, and the establishment of a
fund for pollution abatement activities. The report however indicated areas
where training, equipment and advisory services were required to assist in the
implementation of the regulations. A technical assistance program in the
fields of environmental monitoring, environmental planning and institutional



3262P                               -  35  -
strengthening has been agreed with Government and would be funded from loan
proceeds.
96.       A working paper was also prepared on involuntary resettlement
arising out of the development of hydro sites. It concluded that the existing
legal and administrative system governing involuntary resettlement is
basically sound, and that practices and procedures for resettlement are
satisfactory. The report recommended some areas for improvement, primarily in
the collection of socio-economic data and in administration and coordination
at site level. These recommendations have been accepted by Government and an
implementation plan is under preparation. In order to maintain a continuous
dialogue with Government agencies in this field the Bank will continue to
include periodically 8 resettlement expert on project supervision missions and
where new hydro investments are proposed to be included in the public
investment program the Bank would review and comment upon the related plans
for resettlement.
97.       The approved 1987-1989 public investment program for energy includes
three projects on international rivers which would be carried out by DSI. One
project (Dicle) has already full financing secured. Karakaya and Ataturk,
both on the Euphrates, have financing gaps of US$60 million and US$45 million
respectively and Government is arranging finance for these projects from
commercial sources. DSI would not be a beneficiary agency under the loan.



3262P                               -  36  -
PART Iv - THE PROPOSED WOAN
98.      The proposed loan is the outcome of a Government/Bank energy sector
policy dialogue over the past four years. During this period, extensive
sector work in the energy, lignite, electric power and refinery sub-sectors
including the preparation and discussion with senior government policy makers
of an energy strategy paper, as well as a detailed review of the Government's
energy investment program, has taken place. Technical assistance components
of project loans have contributed to the dialogue and are expected to continue
to do so. A collaborative effort between the Government (KENR, SPO and TEK),
the Bank and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has resulted in
significantly improved energy demand and electricity supply forecasting
capabilities. Thus the proposed loan is a continuation and logical extension
of this process. A summary of reports, studies and working papers prepared in
support of the proposed loan is given in Annex 10.
99.      The proposed sector loan provides support to a :omprehensive medium
to long term policy framework which will serve as a basis for the Bank's
continued energy lending program to Turkey, as well as provide an opportunity
for more effective coordination of external financing for the sector. The
proposed loan was appraised in February, 1987. Negotiations took place in
Washington from April 30 to May 15, 1987. The Turkish delegation was led by
Mr. Rikmet Ulugbay, Chief Counselor for Financial and Economic Affairs,
Embassy of the Republic of Turkey, Washington, D.C. A loan summary is
provided at the beginning of this report and Annex 11 contains supplementary
loan data.
100.    The proposed loan would support actions to be undertaken under the
Government's energy policy program (Annex 3), and would finance presently
unfunded components for equipment, materials and services that are included in
the three year (1987 through 1989) public investment program for the energy
sector (para. 76). It would also cover technical assistance activities
designed to provide a basis for the longer term development of the sector.
The following energy sector agencies and enterprises would be eligible to
utilise these funds: MENR, TEX, EIE, TUPRAS, Petrol Ofisi, BOTAS, TPAO, GDPA,
TKI, TTK, MTA AND SPO.
Proect Cost and  Enancg Plan
101.     The Bank reviewed with each energy agency the lists of goods and
services required in support of the agreed priority public energy investment
program for 1987 through 1989. Discussions were held on the equipment
requirements, timing of procurement in light of realistic implementation
schedules, and the scope and timing of technical assistance proposals. A
sumary of the Project cost, i.e. the existing foreign financing gap in the



3262P                                _  37  _
1987 through 1989 investment program is given in Table 2 below and in greater
detail in Annex 6. Local finance will be provided either through internally
generated revenues or Government appropriations. Long-term local borrowing is
likely to be minimal given the existing difficulties of access to local
long-term funds.
102.     In addition to the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan the Republic of
Turkey proposes to arrange financing of approximately US$680 million to cover
the balance of the foreign exchange financing. The Export Import Bank of
Japan is expected to provide untied financing of approximately US$300 million
under joint cofinancing arrangements with the Bank. The Bank is presently
assisting Government in identifying potential cofinanciers for the balance and
discussions have been held with several interested banks and export credit
agencies. The level of interest expressed by potential financiers indicates
that Turkey will be able to secure the balance of required finance with the
involvement of export credit agencies in supplier countries. A tentative
financing plan for the Project is shown in Table 3 below.



- 38 -
Projeet Cost Table
Fore1an Finance GaR *USSm)
8Acncx zSsect&r 5lpl=r3e Description of Goods                                      I98        = 198    l8otal
tinistry  f tqergr   Energy           Energy planning, training, computer               0.55     0.75      0.40     1.70
and Natural                           hardware and software.
Turkish fleetricitv   Electricity    Transmission lines, substations,                   l.eo    17.90    82.50   101.40
Autherttv (TEKI                       series capacitors, distribution
equipment, machinery.
Cl      e ntricity Survey    Conservation   Technical assistance. training, energy      4.74    15.69    14.57    35.00
Aunistratina                          audits. industrial retrofitting.
State Refineries      Refineries      Studies hydrocracking units, storage tank.        8.50    22.10    34.73    65.33
Agencies ETUORAS)                     HP vacuum units, Naphtha Sweetening Unit.
lm + Ind Disposal System.
Petrel tfisi          Petroleum       Machinery, production materials.                  5.52     6.82      6.68    19.02
IIuSI                                 transportation, materials. various
station equipment.
State Pipelines       Pipelines       Telecommunication, telecontrol equipment.        10.16     5.89      0.18    16.23
Leenev (BOTAS)                        replacement parts, spares. vehicles, sea
pollution preventer.
Turkish Petroleum     Oil Explor.    Casing, chemicals, well head equipment.           56.70    76.90    76.90   210.50
Agency tTPAO)                         rock bits, drilling equipment, other
consumables, offshore promotion
assistance, other production and
construction.
lhehmeral             Oil/Gas         Technical assistance, training, hardware,         -        0.41    OSO       0.91
Directorate of        Policy          software.
Petreleu Affairs
Turkish Lionite       Lignite         Spare parts, retrofitting and upgrading.        124.86    28.00    22.30   175.16
Authority lTKZ)                       rehabilitation and modernization equipment.
Trgkish Coal          Coal           :14sher replacements.                                      1S.00     5.00    20.00
AaenMc LTTKI
Minerals             1Mineral         Specialized vehicles, spare parts,                Z.J    IL1iE   18.73    4La8
txilaratSZA           Exploration    chemicals, computers, other equipment.
*gcvX                                 Drilling Dept.
Base cost                             219.03   208.41   262.49   689.93
Physical contingencies (1OX)           21.90    20.84    26.25    68.99
Price contingencies (lOt)              21. L    20.84    2f.i25   .a.9
Total Project Cost                    262.83   250.09   314.99   827.91
Soreg:  Government of Turkey, World Sank



3262P                                -  39  -
Table 3
Tentative Financing Plan for the Proiect
(US8 million}
1987         1988          1989       Total
World Bank                         25            50           75          150
Japan Export-Import Bank           50           100          150          300
Other Commercial Sources          185           100           95          380
Total                     260          250           320         830
Source: World Bank Estimates
103.     With the funding of the present financing gap assured the totai
financial requirements of the sector over the 1987-1989 period would be met.
Total requirements for the energy sector are approximately US$2.5 billion per
annum of which some 60 percent is in the form of foreign exchange. Table 4
presents a summary of the estimated financial requirements for the energy
sector over the three year period.
Table 4
Financial Requirements for the 1987-1989 Program
(US$ million)
1987 l/     1988        1989      Total
Electric Power                        1491         1625       1850       4966
Coal and Lignite                       347          350        350       1047
Petroleum                              222          250        275        747
Pipelines                              250          270        260        780
Energy Conservation                      5           15         15         35
Others                                  36           60        120        216
Total Requirements               2351         2570       2870       7791
Source: Government of Turkey, World Bank estimates.
11 Government approved program for 1987.



3262.                                -  40  -
Procurement, Disbursement and Administration
104.     The proposed loan of US$325 million would be made to the Republic.
Full disbursement of the loan would take place over a two and a half year
period. Proceeds of the proposed loan would be structured to include US$175
million in support of the energy sector policy reform program. The balance
(US$150 million) would be utilized to help fund the foreign exchange costs of
goods and equipment for the 1987-1989 energy investment program as well as
technical assistance to support Government's program.
105.     Funding of SEE's (TEK, TKI, TTK, TPAQ, TUPRAS, BOTAS, PMAS) would be
made either through equity contribution or on-lending arrangements between
Government and the enterprises. In the latter case the SEEs would also assume
the foreign exchange risk. For other non-revenue agencies in the sector such
as MENR, EIE, and MTA, funds would be treated as a budget contribution.
106.     The policy based component would be available in two tranches - one
of US$75 million at the date of effectiveness and the second twelve months
later of US$100 million - and would be available to finance all goods to be
imported into Turkey except for goods financed by other sources and a specific
list of excluded items such as military or paramilitary items and luxury goods
such as tobacco, precious stones and jewelry, gold, nuclear reactors and
parts. Procurement and disbursement would be similar to the procedures which
were established under the five Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs) to Turkey.
To simplify disbursement, only invoices with a minimum value of US$50,000
equivalent would be eligible for disbursement and the loan would be disbursed
only against foreign expenditures. Imports would be made directly by actual
users, with imports costing US$15 million or more procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Certain commonly traded commodities may be purchased through price quotations
from organized international commodity markets. All contracts of lesser value
would be awarded through normal trade channels on the basis of the normal
procurement procedures of the firms concerned. The procurement procedures of
public sector firms provide for substantial international bidding or shopping
and are satisfactory. Firms in Turkey have an adequate choice of inter-
national suppliers to ensure reasonable availability and price.
107.     The investment component would be available for purchases of
identified equipment and services (Annex 6) as well as intermediate goods in
support of Government's 1987 through 1989 public investment program for the
energy sector. The goods to be procured for 1988 and 1989 will be reviewed
and revised in light of the annual reviews of the public investment program
(para. 77). Except for about US$250,000 of computer hardware and software to
be used in association with various technical assistance activities and which
would be procured through limited international bidding, all goods and
equipment would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB).
All bidding packages exceeding US$1 million equivalent would be subject to



3262P                                -  41  -
prior review by the Bank. Consultants would be recruited and employed in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Disbursements would be made on the basis of
100 percent of the CIF cost of imported goods, or in the case of locally
manufactured goods procured through ICB, 100 percent of the ex-factory cost;
and 100 percent of all expenditures for consultants.
108.     In order that Turkey has ready access to foreign exchange, a Special
Account would be established in the Central Bank of Turkey to which the Bank
would make an initial deposit of US$50 million. The Special Account would
cover both the policy and investment compoments of the loan. Payment requests
would be made against standard documentation and statements of expenditures.
The Special Account would be replenished against withdrawals at monthly
intervals or as appropriate when the undisbursed balance of the account falls
below US$30 million. Imports would be made directly by actual users. The
Special Account would be audited annually, in line with standard Bank
procedures. Retroactive financing of up to US$25 million under the policy
component would be allowed for expenditures made after February 1, 1987. The
loan is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31, 1989, and the Closing
Date has been set at September 30, 1990.
Monitorine and Reporting
109.     Qualified staff within each of the main energy agencies have been
designated as responsible for the coordination, monitoring and evaluation of
their respective subsectoral activities under the sectoral adjustment
program. Typically the lead staff are at the level of either Director of
Planning and Coordination or General Manager. MENR has responsibility for
coordinating the work programs of all the energy agencies and would take lead
responsibility in preparing major progress reports including the completion
report.
110.     In addition to routine supervisory missions to review progress
related to policy reform, technical assistance and procurement a major
progress review as a condition of the second tranche release will take place
approximately twelve months after loan effectiveness (tranche 1). Further
disbursement of loan proceeds would be based upon satisfactory progress in
implementation of the sectoral adjustment program, with special emphasis on
progress on the following issues:
(a) preparation of the independent financial audit of TEK (para. 54);
(b) the strengthening of TEK's Board of Directors (para. 55);
(c)  implementation of the work program of the regulatory body (para. 61);
(d) preparation of the medium to long term subsector plans for natural
gas (para. 66), refineries (para. 67) and electric power (para. 71);



3262P                                -  42  -
(e) composition and sire of the public investment program for energy
(para. 77);
(f) implementation of the new refinery remuneration formula (para. 83);
(g) financial performance of TEIK (para. 86) and implementation of the new
tariff structure (para. 87); and
(h) implementation of the energy conservation program (para. 93).
111.     The Treasury would supervise the maintenance of separate accounts for
the loan and would prepare detailed statements of expenditures during each
half year period. In addition, an annual audit would be carried out and
submitted to the Bank within nine months of the end of each fiscal year.
Benefits and Risks
112.     While the broad policy framework for the energy sector is in place,
the development and implementation of a cohesive program of actions as defined
in the Government's statement of energy policy (Annex 3) will result in
several significant benefits to the economy. These actions will:
(a)  underpin the reform program and  nsure movement towards Government's
long term sector objectives of -iberalization and rationalization;
(b) significantly increase the stock of trained manpower both in the
traditional areas of planning and management and in areas relatively
new to Turkey such as energy conservation, regulatory aspects, etc.;
(c) prepare a solid foundation for maximizing the flows of private
capital to the sector; and
(d) reduce public expenditures in the sector through improved operational
efficiencies, cost recovery policies and investment rationalization
as well as through increased flows of private capital.
113.     Although no economic rate of return can be computed on the overall
sectoral adjustment program, the Bank has, in specific subsectors, reviewed
the potential direct benefits of the proposed actions. These include
approximately US$40 million per annum of savings to the economy through energy
conservation and demand management, and US$30 million through efficiency gains
in the electric power subsector alone. Furthermore a reduction of energy and
electricity intensity and hence growth in demand has a major impact upon
investment needs especially in the capital intensive electricity subsector. A
reduction in the energy/GDP coefficient of 21 percent as identified in MENR's
most recent demand estimates would result, over a five year period, in the
ability to postpone the commissioning of a 1,500 MW power plant.
114.     Energy sector policies are mainly designed to improve efficiency and
do not have a large direct impact upon poverty. However, there are two
policies which will have a direct impact upon poverty. The first concerns the



3262P                                -  43  _
Government's intention to continue subsidizing electricity for poor households
through lifeline tariffs. The second relates to the Government's rural
electrification program which is specifically targetted at impoverished
Eastern Turkey. As a result of a significant increase in investment in 1985
and 1986 the rural electrification program is now well on course to meeting
Government's target of completing electrification of Turkey's main villages by
1990.
115.     The main risks in implementing the sector adjustment program arise
from:
(a) the uncertainties with respect to the level, scope and timing of
private investment in the energy sector and the consequent high costs
to the economy in the event of shortfalls in the estimated level of
private sector investment. It is proposed that both the longer term
sectoral planning assistance and the annual reviews of the public
energy investment program include assessments of the likely flows of
private capital as well as the status of potential private
investments. Risks will be further reduced by the development of
contingency plans of high priority standby projects for the public
sector to be brought forward in the event of shortfalls in private
investment;
(b) volatility in energy demand and supply forecasts as a result of
changes in the macro-economy and in external factors such as
international energy prices. The technical assistance for energy
planning to be provided under the loan will devote considerable
effort to incorporating techniques related to risk analysis,
uncertainty and the need for greater flexibility in investment
planning; and
(c) the pace of cost recovery measures especially in light of any
increases in the inflation rate. Considerable efforts will be needed
by Government to ensure that energy prices reflect changes in
inflation in order that planned cost recovery targets are
maintained. The annual reviews of the investment programs and
associated financing plans will give the Bank an opportunity to
discuss on a regular basis the details of specific cost recovery
targets.



3262P                               -  44  -
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
116.     Through March 31, 1987 the Bank and IDA had lent $7,465.4 million',
to Turkey, through 96 projects. Agriculture accounted for 21 percent of the
funds lent, industry and DFCs for 23 percent, power for 19 percent, structural
adjustment and program loans for 23 percent, and urban development, trans-
portation, education, tourism and technical assistance for the remaining
14 percent. Disbursements for all sectors combined averaged 66 percent of
appraisal estimates at the end of March 1987, which compares favorably with
other countries in the region. As of March 31, 1987, IFC cotmitments to
Turkey totalled about $289 million, of which about $105 million were still
held by IFC.
117.     Bank lending is aimed at supporting Turkey's medium-term objectives
of restructuring the economy by placing greater reliance on market forces and
adopting a more outward-oriented strategy. The main vehicle for the Bank's
operational discussions with the Government has been the structural adjustment
lending (SAL) program, which was completed in June 1984, and more recently the
sectoral adjustment lending program. Significant progress has been achieved
in the last seven years, but the task of restructuring is by no means over.
The current lending program aims at a broadening and deepening of the
adjustment process at the sectoral level. Recent economic developments have
underlined the need for a continuation of the stabilization program without
giving up the goals of sectoral adjustment. Hence the emphasis of Bank
lending in the post-SAL period will continue to be on striking an appropriate
balance between sector adjustment lending designed in part to be quick
disbursing and supportive of policy reforms in the major sectors and project
lending. A first sector adjustment loan for agriculture was approved in June
1985. A financial sector adjustment loan approved in June 1986 was the second
of the series. A further sector adjustment loan for the transport sector is
planned for FY89. It is expected that there would be follow-up loans in
agriculture, energy and the financial sector.
118.     Project lending, which would continue to make up the majority of Bank
lending, would be designed to support and strengthen the adjustment process.
Some project lending would be earmarked for the construction or rehabilitation
of key projects in the energy sector. Other projects would be guided by the
major policy objectives of the Government, which include generation of foreign
exchange (including improving productivity in export industries and providing
essential infrastructure for exports), improvement of institutional efficiency
and reduction of the social costs of adjustment (including provision of social
infrastructure and employment generation, with some emphaais on the least
developed provinces).
119.     IFC has invested in textiles, pulp and paper, glass, aluminum,
cement, iron and steel products, food processing and tourism. It has also
invested in the Industrial Development Bank of Turkey (TSKB) and provided
guarantees for overseas contracting firms. In addition, IFC is currently
providing technical assistance to the Government with respect to the
development of the capital market and a regulatory framework for leasing.
1/  Net of cancellations and including commitments signed but not yet
o..fective as of March 31, 1987.



3262P                                 -  45  -
PART VI - RECOMMENDAION
120.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and I reco_mend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
June 1, 1987
Washington, D.C.



- 46 -
WII - EWIC 1IEC1AllS
TAUI
Rad-1985 Populctims  49.4 uilliot                                                                                      Pae I of 3
1985 Per Cpitoa  iP.  USS 1130                                                                                         Nay I98
1.  lre of 6rs  Doneic Proo4tt                             8. 6roEtl kats 359W    w )
from current price data)                                 3fr4  constmnt price datal
3965    1973    1980    1984    19SS   1986.           19U-73  1973-E0  1980-84      1985   19069
Gross Duetl c Product e.p.         300.0   10..0 1  00.0   100.0   100.0   100.0               67        4.5      4.8     5.1      8.0
lit Indirect Taxes                 9.8    10.1     5.7     4.5      7.4     9.5               6.5      0.9      4.5    154.   18.3
Agrtculturo                       30.9    24.8    21.4    18.7    17.4    16.6                1.9      4.9      2.4     2.4      7.7
Industry it                      22.4    23.1    28.6    31.9    32.7    32.6                8.5       4.6      5.9     6.1     8.9
Iof uich enufcbturtngl            14.4    15.6    20.1    23.2    23.3    23.0               10.1      3.4      8.2     5.5     9.8
servicns                          36.9    42.1    44.3    45.0    42.6    41.3                8.7      4.9      5.1     3.2      6.0
Rorce blntce                       -1.4    -2.8    -8.1    -4.6    -3.6    -3.0                 -         -        -        -       -
Exports of GIFS                    6.3     7.3     5.7    17.3    18.9    15.6                8.2     -0.2     37.0    15.3      1.0
leports of 61iFS                  7.7    10.1    13.8    21.9    22.4    19.4                 U.6     -0.2     35.6     9.1    12.5
Total Expmnditers                  101.4   102.9   108.1   104.6  '103.4   103.8               7.1       4.1      3.7     4.4    10.9
lotal Consusption                  6.5    83.8    86.2    85.8    83.9    79.0               6.3       4.0      3.7     3.0      9.6
Private CouRWptin               74.2    71.3    73.6    76.8    73.2    70.2                6.4      3.4      4.0     3.0      9.7
Public Consmtion                12.3    12.5    12.6      8.9     8.5     S.8               5.3      7.5      2.4     3.2      8.8
Bross Dostic Ilvestnt             14.9    19.0    21.9    18.9    21.1    24.8               11.0      4.8      3.4     9.4    15.2
Fa   Ineltenest                 14.5    20.1    20.0    17.4    20.2    23.6               10.8      3.8      3.2    12.5    13.8
Chmns in Stocks                  0.4    -1.0     1.9      3.5     0.9     1.2              21.2     24.5      5.7   -23.1    51.6
6Ios Domestic Saving                13.5    16.2    13.8    14.2   1.1    22.2                9.S       2.1      9.4    12.7     2.8
bet Factor Iloue t7                0.4    -0.6    -2.0    -2.9    -2.5    -2.8                        21.1     14.3     B.e. S   .c.
Not Current Transfers              1.2     6.0     3.8      4.3     3.8     3.4              29.2      0.8      7.1     B.e.    n.S .
Gross Rational Savin                15.1    21.6    15.7    15.6    20.4    22.8               11.7      0.6      L2      n.e.    s.c.
In billions of TIL                 1965    1973    1980    1984    1985   196S
(At constant 1980 prics)          -        -       -       - _ _
Gross Domstic Produtt           1884.6  3171.3  4328.0  5211.7  5467.  5S05.2                 6.7      4.5      4.8     5.1      8.0
Cpcity to Imort                  237.0   440.5   248.3   842.9   980.t   973.0               8.1    -7.9       35.7    16.3    -0.7
Trfes of Trade Adustmst          103.3  19.4      0.0   -33.0   -29.5    10.0                          -        -        -
oss uestic l1cm                 1987.9  3360.7  4328.0  5178.7  543S.4  593.i                6.8       3.7      4.6     5.0     8.8
Gross Rtionl Product            3891.3  3148.9  4243.0  5006.3  5333.6  5755.0                6.6      4.4      4.5     5.3      7.9
Gro  Rational Intm              1994.6  3338.3  4243.0  503.3   34.2  5760.0                 6.6       3.5      4.4     5.4     8.7
--               11980-1001                              --1sflation bta I# p.aI                --
C. Price Imncs                      1960    1982    3983    1984    39S5  I196             395-n   1973-80  1980F4       1985  1398I
coser Prices 9SIS st.)             100.0   178.7   237.5   352.4   530.7   687.4               8.5      38.9     37.0    4.9    34.6
leselnte Prices (SIS st.)          100.0   173.7   226.7   340.8   488.0   632.4              10.3      40.2     35      43.2    29.6
Isplicit GOP Deflator              100.0   181.8   234.2   349.4   503.2   660.0              11.1     40.5      36.     44.0    31.2
aplicut Expediture DTflator        100.0   185.4   239.7   352.4   506.1   65.0               11.1     41.6      37.7    43.S    29.9
L. Other Indicators              196F73          1973-0           1980-85
Groetb Rte  (I pua.l                                                                      iliTs
poplation                          2.5             2.2              2.4                   eJ ectlule constrwetims.
UcIr Forct                         1.8             7.0              1.5s                   h nclde mortars rffttt&es.
Iross Nat'l. Inter P.C.            4.1             1.3              2.2                   cl Rfers to 1965-74 ed 1974-H0 periods.
Private Co_tios P.C.              3.9              1.2              1.4
J * Estiate
Import Elasticity:                                                                        Surucet nent of ybkie  Best estimt".
1eprt (9+FS) I HP!,)               1.5             0.1              2.9
irginal Stainp Riest
6O  Rtional Saving C/             20.0            12.0             32.2
6a15 Dlomntic Saving cl           11.5            20.0             31.9
liRO                                2.7              5.6             4.0
Swr of Total Civili.                1965    19n    t30    198
Ewloywt is                           os
Agrictutue                        14.5    67.2    62.     51.8
Industry                          8.7    11.1    11.6    12.9
Services                          16.8    21.7    25.9    28.3
TOl                              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0



- 47 -
TM1- Eac   mom3
TM12                                              km   I
PA" 2 of 
Volts loTs flll93010 i}                                        V.m   Corra t   Pt  e   10421o £3
E. 'lechaaodi  Exports                  130    11112      £IIJ    £4        t5    1£9                  110      192     1983     13       19135   t93
Craps 21acl. )edcet. Craps)            100.0   1t20    105.2   104.5   1031.7   12                   540.30  I7.2   14.50  140.70  345.30   1560.1
Liv,atocb an Fichey                    100.0   353    3)6.1   300.5   233.2   310.7                  1S3.90   412.10   324    3.         40    3.0
N.nsog                                 100.0   £07.7   104.1   £1.3   143.5    152.                   191.0    I53    1139   239.    243.    2t
aueficttrrq                            100.0   364.9   421.3   002.9   69.2   652.5                  £047.4  3429.4   33.   5144.5  5494.8  53.3
totel fsports (scl. treapst tUM        £00.0   224.0   224.    29          330.Z   32L.             2910.1  S746.   52.   716   79   1   7456.3
Total Exports (F3)                     100.0   230.5   231.4   299.9   342.3    35                  2910.0  5e0.o   S O   733.0  3i250   7543.0
1. iorchaduw lSArts
AIricultdre & Lvrntoae                 100.0   473.5   335.2   £3.5   93.6   16.7                      49.3   176.1   133.0   411.5    3L53    457.4
otaing                                 100.0   U15.0   16.5   232.9   279.7  1I3.                     142.7   212.3  1*9.3   270.9   304.9    3.6
Petrele                                100.0   £17.5   113.?    1267    128.5   134.5                2932   36.   3242.2   372   3321.4  1£07.6
Capital Gauls                          100.0   152.6    170.2   204.7   203.3   2364                 1112.3   1l.1  11129.9  2162.2  2214.0  3195.4
otr Indust. Produtts                   100.0    39.7   103.5   130.9   147.1   145.0                I30    324.   336   413.1  5123.0  1306.6
Total loports ICIF)                    100.0   114.1   125.4   147.7   159.2   184.3                79.   32.7           5A 0 0759  11343.6  11104.8
total leports (FQ0)                    100.0   115.7   127.2   £4.3   165.9    136.a                7513.0  35L.  S3 .0  10331.0  11230.0  l066.0
s. Tern of Trade  19603002             1£90      £92      I        11134    19135   1k             -
fatr. Expot Prict lef-                 100.0    87.8    V7.7        4.7    82.9       7.9           at Price Tsm  for apwt at  tiport catso  tre
Rare. Isports Price 15o               100.0    9.0    93.2    92.2    S0.1    76.0                     M  "tint".
Rerchatds Tareo  of Trae               100.0    89.6    94.2    92.0    92.0    102.5               Ui Iladd. oftaci grub.
C1 lKrf#    iaolctn  ru  de,AattbO.
D5U sillte   (at ctrt pritcel
K. blance of Panss                      I£O      1932     193      1934     IS    1
Exports of Beows S IFS                  326    63         639     9IS0    95        916
£erthandine iFOI)                     2910    3390   5U         733      32      7t5
lol-Fattor Swrices                     356    1090         I    1201    1703    15
o uts  f d  1 IIFS                      73 Ws4    O8     9221    lo636    £3339    f2o6
Rbrchuaist tfQ0)                      7513    3519    gm9S   10331   11230   1064
on-Factor Servicn                      341      368      326      55       609      598
Rortc Abla                             -4538    -1906   -2332   -229    -1413   -2094
Not Factor Inctw                        -991    -1323    -15     -1225   -1130    -133
Itset)                               -1*33    -1165    -15£I   -156    -1753    -2134
lt Cerrent Transfrs Si                  2171     2294    17M5    214       1199     £S49
1o. ers Remittances)                  2071     2140     1531    107    1714    164U
Current  aceant blaa                   -3443    -'5    -18T8   -1407   -1013   -1523
Lag-Two Cqitl lafl                      2047    1o00       349    1159        75     650
Direct lavntuet                         18       53       46      113       n       125
bt LT Lnem  (M   atal                 19        987      514     1W        32    i.e.
OUer LI ialos I(e                       60       42    -211      -341    -416      a.&.
Total OtKhw It..  ot)                   t357    -131      1645      373    1213    14
t Short-Te  Capital                    -6       -i3       5        36    1650    1478
Errws and tIisuis                     1453      -4       67       337    -47        16s
Muap to   t  eserve                        4      -t1       -6     -125    -275     -708
llt Crabit Pro the IIIF                422      133       78    -13B    -255    -241
ahr Rst          T _ugs               -418      35S    -174        13      -20    -55
1- inicats taret
As sba., of UP IV:
inot  blau                            -L1      -3       -4.6    -4.6    -3.6    -3.6
otrest Payuts                         -2.0    -3.0    -3.0    -3.2    -3.3    -3.7
Crrot lcm*  Mldc.                     -6.0    -1.1    -3.7    -2.6    -1.9    -2.6
ItA l. on s   11i. g1m                1307.9  38A2.4   27.9  3093.   2614.6  31 ?7
ReWer    Iotl. bid (lll. gut          1462.5  2027.0  225S  39.0   357             423.s
Otfidal f Ett.   t (IU I)               76.0   162.6   225.5   36.7   522.0   674.5
lden  3. E1f. E . Rts
(Usc. 192401 Ct                       109.1   107.3   103.0    96.7    97.3    37.3
EDP 4, sll)                          56924.4  5023 5115.0   W7.5  5272  546.?



- 4S -
1110  -£10 t 8404104041880
1t0112
P.t 3 of 3
UV4 1907
S4hars of l¢P l1)                                  6rd  Rbtn 43 p.a.1
1. moit (tcoal Dornoa.tl             H810     982   1993    498        I9S    198I           I9983    1984    19         19811
.  . .......  ........... ....._..___._ ...
6ominriu                             I9.4    16.5    98.7 1    4.5   1.2    17.5                27.0    31.2    58.4    53.1
tax fowa                           17.3    15.4t    9.8    13.0    13.9    1S.7                ?7.1    22.5    41.6    54.5
tn-tax bunta                        2.0     1.4      1.9     2.5      2.3      2.2             34.1   10?.2      0.0    32.9
Expoad:t9e                           24.S    18.3    22.0    20.5    19.4       2.1             3L2      47.3    41A.    54.I
Currt                              1.5      6.4      9.2     S.1      7.6     7.7              28.4    39.3   4I.-    45.2
fatarnt OamDts                      0.t     0.9      1.6     2.1      2.4     3n              as.91  tO11       19.n    95.I
OIvoIstant                          3.9     4.0      4.0     La       3.4     4.1             19.7    A7.9    44.8    6.2
Itrailers                          0.7      5.0      7.2     4.6      5.5     5.5              30.'    44.2    2t.t    42.0
b4itd t&laEnc                        -5.4    -I,t    -3.2      4.9    -2.9    -3.2               11.0    179.4   -12.4    59.7
- - th tlaoce                        -5.l    -2.1    -2.1    -5.2    -3.1    -3.4                 3.1   7X0.2    -9.9    4.-
fhnanacq                              S.2     I.?      1.0     5.4      2.8     3.9              -2I1   349t,    -35.4    92.2
Forinqn Oorroqm  t tlt              t.7    -0.2      0.2      1.8    -0.      -0.4             29.4  t102.9  -tb4.9   -37.2
lust.c Iarraasaq (btt               0.2     0.4      1.6     0.6      1.6      t.8            495.8   -3.6   36J.5    45.4
Short-fore Borrownq                 3.3     1.2    -0.2      2.4      1.9      2.4              -       -        7.4     8.
0t9v                                 -0.1     0.4      0.3     0.1      0.3    -0.2                     -31.0   i92.3  -2,07.9
Not Ozshvurts UIF ail.,                                    Debt otsiladn O VAistsa  4l00 oil.l
J. Eztnal Capital Flos, Odt   ----------           -.----------------------                                -     -----     -        ------------
od 84bt 9urdtn Ratios             4980    1982    9113      40      I4tS    Me4/              1904    92    19V    I98          NS      1984 aI
......    . ,. . ..........  ..                                     ...._    ......                            ........           _     _
Publi I Publicily 6oar. 4T         4902.6  973.9   S09.0  1341.0   470.7   590.0              45441.4  16477.5   444.4  17420.5  919.9  24741.0
Official Creditors               4264.2    05.4   449.9   950.e   423.1   o.a.              10182,6  11057.0  9m07.9  494.4.  92270.5 .4774.0
Rttilateral                     414.1   M03.5   480.8   670.3   559.1   o.A.               2452.5  9OS87  3442   3.2  4842.8  7527.0
of  itch IIID                 2b7.5   416.4   373.9   487.3   4!S.8   428.0              4157.5  9S42.3  2314.   2923.5  3293.2  4449.0
of which 4iD                   -0.9    -1.7    -2.b    -2.9    -3.5    -3.2               189.4   IVA.5   193.9   ISI.0   177.5   174.0
lbhlterul                       870.4   202.1   -30.9   279.7  -134.0   na;                7950.1  794.2  7333.7  7047.4  7557.7  O1I87.0
frivate CrgOitors                 618.4   408.3    59.2   411.0    417.    a.&               5230.5  55t.5  544.5  t373.7  73048.4  44.O
Sfo is 1r2.4 f 19S.1                               3.0   -19.9   45.8                      1444.8   737.t   720.9   683.0  6t2.3   n.4.
financial Itrkets               455.9    34.4    56.2   422.9   113.4   4.1 493.7  4437.A   441.6  43t4.7   497.3   o.a.
Orear Book Occootse l             -       --       -        --                                      400.0   75S.0  1324.0  1385.0  2480.0
Private Mobn-oruntud4 LT            4U.0    13.0       5.0    26.0   -92.0   -75.0              535.0   394.0   319.0   425.0   35S.9   *.4.
Tottl Long-Te'                     1948.4   984.9   514.0  M3M7.0  317.7   513.0              1597t.1  17021.5  4483.4  31643.5 20028.0 24171.0
iRF let trodit                      484.7   202.6   1tO.4   -43.1  -251.3  -313.0              405-.2  1455.2  1567.4  9424.2  9326.4  t085.0
Idt  9w9-lr Captal                -4404.0   -30.0   517.0  s8.s0  1579.0  2152.0               2490.0  1744.0  228.0  I186.0  4'59.4  611.0
Total lal. cI4 & Not St            1327.3  4959.5  1221.1  2242.9  704.4  1989.0              19520.3 20240.7 20414.0  2244t.7  24123.4  32147.0
8ut ad 184 Ratios it)               t9       I492    t993    1984    1985   4986-
_____  _ _-         _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --                                   0ElIt
Shwre of Total Loaq-Tre W8 c/                                                                  a1 Estintes fr a et 0LSWUt$ VS nOt tdraW l with
1. I8 Ss I of Total                 4.8    40.4    12.7    14.&    15.4    I.5                  88Q ostiaatei ,zoo  de tter ore djesW te rntiuted
2.  A ad I of tol                    1.J     1.0      1.0     0.9      0.      0.7              nrhoag atin ots.
3. 1811+18% as I of total            7.9    49.4    13.7    15.4  I4.2    19.1                 t epouits sith 1-2 VtW$ W.4rity am tlssifiOd t SlYJ ot.
cl Leq-twn det ant dout sevice too iem IW.
Share of Total Lt het Sromar cl                                                               4U Ewort ieluo qOds, fuctr Pi  s7ac er vices
1. 184 as I of 7otal                44.8     8.O    90.4    12.2    9O.2    43.5                ple eubws; rawttcs.
2. 104 as I of Total                 0.2     0.1      0.1     0.2      0.1     0.1            of  tneuwTt m ST     t Calculatd as *  Oflfiice, hlx.
3. I4880+    as I of Total          12.0     8.2    10.3    12.4    10.3    13.6                totl istwoest (8DP table) aod IIS itwt to. 7ttt
chgl from the esterut OiK  tdilns poecof h0 90D.
80-t-sWpoot bties V  4di                                                                      e * Estiesn
1. L.0-Tors Debt/Eperts           278.2  4I9.4   178.1   154.5   152.8   193.9              Souru:         data: MD, Et'lloE\ t .tO Turkey
2. IoF Cred:tEel rcts               18.4     0.S    14.6    12.3    90.1      8.7                     BMqat 0qae ettf 0tekty
3. Short-Ir. ieht/Earts             43.4    17.5    24.1    27.S    34.3    55.4
4. LT4.111F#44 0lD/Ezprts          339.9   201.0   218.8   194.3   199.2   258.0
8-to-SiP Ratios 414
1. LoTor r Ubet/IW                  28.1    32.1    32.9    34O       38LO    41.
2. IIIF CredztISl                    1.9     2.7      3.1     2.9      2.5     1.9
3. ShNt-Tr r8lbtt691,                4.4     3.3      4.5     6.4      9.0    14.9
4. LT#IIIFSlt 88888                 34.3    38.2    40.5    45.2    49.5    55.4
Dot  onra/Elfporls 4
Phlic & Publdly BOr. LI              IS.    22.4    24.1    19.8    26.7    2S.I
Pritt  E ot eod LT                    0.9     0.7      1.O     0.9      1.2     0.9
otl U NIUt Srrice                    9.2    23.1    25.1    20.1    27.9    29.0
III kporcau  * Sorv. lip.            3.6      2.S      3.5     3.4      2.9     4.0
latrost an Vtt* It                   90.8     2.4      1.8     2.1      2.6     4.2
Total 4LTU   ,T) bt Srvce            S0.6    2.5    38.3    2t.1    33.4    37.2
*   -              ;   Z  ,-  ;     -



49   -
ANNEX II
SMBS OF W AN    P GM 0 6a,s IN nMO
A.      SLWI OF MW U1 AND FIDA CD /a
rAs of 1Mc 31, 987)
LAM     Fisori 
tiebar Ye _iM      B.;.wE                                         Bagik    MA
Fifty-five I'm", tof   ,M,
and ftnrtm orait Auly disbersed                                3447.35  196A5
1585-DU  M178  Dcpblic of Tatiq      Noron Faotry                 86.0D             25.47
1606-lu  1978  Repblic of Turkay     lrdir Seeel Sap xi           95.A0              2.50
1742-1   1979  bpblic of T1key    (kain Stap                      79.00             64.06
1BVPl   198D  Iepelic of 7Wkq        Karw._ t20y                                      .03
186W4  1l9tl0  Dsephlic of Tudy      Fifth    oetDce1o       t    51.00             14.34
1917-iM  1981  86pi1ic of lXwkq      ai buay,                     62.00             10.23
1985'lU  1981  PpbLic of Turley      Fertilizw RticaWixtiam    110.00               36.71
1991I   198    ate bwmsoit           Sta  Zn"mrial Dimw. Fin.   70.00               15.77
2093-W   19&   23                    Dpot-lkisted Iadm-i 1i 0.0                      8.25
20*-'U  9I   bRpliC of -t1) y          raruu   ral Dcvelopint     40.0              22.54
2131-1   198   Dcpalic of Tukq       Seco:d Fert. Rdiuilitatior    29.8)             3,53
2137-'   198   Repzblk of lirlAwy    HL#qy &hb.                    71.10             G.0
2159-U  19W2 -                       Istadul   Swap                88.10            31.12
231TUL9 1983  TMB                    9wDndS griatlwral Credit    150A0              46.27
2W22     1S9B  MR 2                      m                        163UO            128.35
22MI 198)  TrAo                      flrar GMs Seratim             55.2)            28.5
2399W-r   1984  Dpic of Dzky         Indstrial Mra ing             36.8D            31.41
24D1m   M1984  Repiblc of Icrkey     Dadmical Asistom   for 9a   4.65                2.50
2105     198S   epublic of Tley      Agr-.tmeni ari Rinech         72.20            56.34
2433-1   1984  Hepibl  of 1lwkey      mE Irrigdto                1U5.30            ID3.38
2439-U   1984  Dpblic of Tdq         9*cAid Hiiway                186.40           143.35
2535'fU  1980  Kepablic of Turkey    lhird Pcrts                  134.50           120.81
2536-lU  198    6ptJblc of Tuday     IMAstrial Scbools             57.70            55.67
2537-1U   19    Repablic of Tr1ey    Oharora BIg. Udw  36vt.       9.20              1.0
258-U   l98S  ibwlic of Tludy        Apic. Sewtor  Adju           30.30 AD1.68
2586.1   195  I                      Fouxth TM TrlAisim           142.04L          131.79
2602-.     1986  M                   Paw Spun Opmtiu Asat. IAGOD                   132.01
2647-Vi  W1    Repblic of lrwkey       .ll   l NxHia*Ae  InAustry lD.O00            75.09
2650-'i  L986  WM                     Elbistu 0 wd K               10.0O             7.42
2655-lU  1986  Repiblic of  wkey     Kyrap  Hiydropfq             200.0a           199.32
2"63&W   1986  3phblic of Tikey      Draimaa  & Ort     Dacelop. c/ 255.00         255.00
271YKfl   1987  Sep*blici of lSwkey  Finaial Sector Adj. lam  - 3OD.0               74.34
2739-lu  1987  Ihpblic of Turkty      aiisys II                   197.1D           L97.00
2750-W   1987  Reppblic of lAwke     Sir HIydroowe                132.00            127.96
2776-D   1987  aepblic of lwy        l*rfmal Voc. Trainir  l    58.53               5b.50
Total                                            7269.20   1b.15  2310.36
of ioch has bon  repaid                        1058.36   23.02
Ibtal Oatstu4din and   dibursed                  621014  1U3.1.3
Anwmt sold                   3.55
of biich has bee repaid    3.55
Total now held by Bt and MDA                     6207.29  173.13
Total usdisbtrsed                                2310.36
/a Ihe status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a sepwate report
ai aU B=Vd/k finmced project in eamtio, 'ich xs updated oiac ysarly
sad circuated C the  dtvi.e Directors a April 3D and October 31.
/b Not of cancelatias.
ic Not yc eftfitise.
hasesa efctive an April 3, 1987.
Je Priar to  *vp adpbmnts.
(09Ai2   9



-  50  -ANE  1
Page 2 of 2
srAl1  OF DAII GMW tmHATIO  IN IiuM
L       y=~IQ f~~)
(As of bwch 31, 1987)
Fiscal                                                               h2vt 4 milimis
yew           aii                jam of ausw a. ab
1966167/69/     TSX                  C                          60.00      4.77      64.77
72J7/75/76/
77/80/83
1/691           SWAS I              kIyz Yarn                    3.15      1.42      4.57
71/72
1970/71/        Vii  I              Palp and Papr                2.50      0.82      3.32
82/83
197X086/87      AfS                 Glass                       20.75      1.68     22.44
1971176/        NASAS               Akaizm                       8.58      1.46      10.04
/83
1973            Akhmiz              Tourism                      0.33      0.27      0.60
1974/77         Bunu1          -    Steel Pipes                  3.60      0.49      4.09
a974            ALSA                ibiles                      10.tl       -        10.00
1975            K&rtalpee           liaes                        1.30       -        1.3D
1975            Sasm               .!,n Yamn                    15.00       -        15.00
1975            Aslan               Cemt                        10.t0       -        10.68
1975/78/83     DwcS                 Stqel                        7.50      1.53      9.03
1976/79         AsilCelik           Steel                       12.U)      4.00      16.00
1979            Eg tean M=gines fir lbpeds                       2.15       -        2.15
1979/88/84/85  ISAS                  btor Vehicles & Access.     8.85      2.34      11.19
1986            Cm Elyaf            Fibe Glass                   7.94       -        7.94
1979/81/        Trasya Cm           Glas                        33.15      3.23     36.38
83/84
198D                                Tesilae  gd Fibers           4.00       -        4.00
1961            Kirklweli
Cm Smaya
ALS.              Glass Tablere               12.95       -       12.95
1982              N.
'btors            MDor Vehicles & AcCes.       7.6        -        7.8
1984            Pin                 Food oI Food Procsing        3.90       -        3.AU
196              fS                 1DDr Vehicles & Access.      b.47                b.47
1986            Sikar Turim Yatirim  Tourism                     5.80       -        5.8)
ve Islebelari A.S.
1985            6sks a, r wmve        Touism                     2.38       -        2.38
Ticaret A.S.
1987            Guny Smawi ve         Texties                   16.51       -        16.51
Ticaret Isletrmieri
A.                                               _
Total Gross Cmuitmts                           267.29     22.01    289.30
less Cancallaticas, 1rmnatims,
FEdiKip Adjtstmts, Fepaymts
and Sales                                    174.72      9.78    184.50
Tbtal Comatamts nao hed by IFC                  92.57     12.23    104.80
Totl  disbursed                                 8.51        -        8.51
April 23, .987
(0982I)



- 51 -
Annex 3
SUp : DEIt-IV-1-126
Kom, :                        4 8 9 1 0                May 22, 1987
M4. S. S. CONABLE
President
Internstional Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 a Street, N.V.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Conable,
The Turkish Government has nov completed the seventh year of
the Goverment's program for restructuring the economy. The adjustent
program has helped Turkey to expand exports and to improve its exteral
balance. Under the Fifth Five-Year Development Plan, the Government is
continuing to encourage liberalization of the economy , promote iproved
productivity in areas of comparative advantage and further progress in
Increasing export earnings. We also emhasize policy and institutional
reforms at the sectoral level.
Within this framework, the attached Statement of Energy Sector
Policies shovw the Governmeat's decisivenas In asslgning a high priority
to reforms in the energy sector and sets forth the main elements la the
Government's program relattng to sector policies. It encompasses policy
and institutional maesures underway or to be undertaken from 1987 to
1989 and the Government has comitted Itself to carry out the energy
secror reform program as described in the attaebmet.
I an writing to you at this tine to request an Energy Sector
Adjustment Loan In the amount of $325 million to assist In the finan-
cing of the Government's program for structural change in the sector.
Sincerely Yours,
t. Kys, a RE
Minister of State and
Deputy Prime Minister
Attachment



- 52 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 8
ENERGY SECTOR ADlJuSTMOEN  LAN
STATEMENT OF ENERGY POLICY
L INTRODUCTION
1.       The energy sector remains critical to the Government's medium-term
policy of reducing imports and providing energy at the lowest economic cost to
sustain the Government's export-led growth targets.
2.       The Government's energy policy stems from:
(a) concern with the cost, availability and security of energy supplies
over the medium to long term;
(b) a desire to improve the efficiency of energy production and use; and
(c) a drive to involve the private sector more deeply in the energy
sector, partly to control public expenditure, but partly also to
increase efficiency and stimulate growth.
3.       The Government has assigned the highest priority to energy policies
which will result in a secure, timely and low cost supply of energy.
Investment in the sector represents about 31X of total public fixed investment
during the Fifth Five-Year Plan Period (1985-1989) compared with 20% for the
previous plan. The plan gives priority to:
(a) increasing the efficiency of the public sector energy agencies and
allowing them greater financial autonomy;
(b) increasing the opportunities for private sector participation;
(c) improving energy conservation through appropriate pricing policies as
well as the introduction of an energy conservation program;
(d) diversifying the sources of energy, giving priority to indigenous
sources, especially hydro and lignite, and including imported
sources, especially coal and gas; and
(e) ensuring that priority investments are fully funded.
4.       The proposed program has three broad themes.  The first concerns the
development of an appropriate institutional framework to respond to the recent
policy changes. The second concerns the implementation of a priority
investment program combined with a longer-term effort to upgrade investment
planning capacity. The third focuses upon specific actions to increase the
efficiency of the existing energy supply system and to ensure the economic
utilization of energy. The next section outlines government policies and
intentions in these areas.



- 53 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 8
EL Progpru for Action
Institutional Development
5.       The Government's objective is to develop an effective and financially
sound energy sector, in which the private and public sectors will work
together to meet Turkey's energy needs in the most efficient manner. The
Government proposes to introduce a broader regulatory framework within which
government efforts will be directed towards emphasizing accountability and the
independence of the public sector, and maximizing opportunities for private
investment. The Government will start wit-h the electric power subsector.
6.       The goal is to establish a comprehensive regulatory framework for
licensing and operating within the electricity subsector. The Government
building upon an existing department, has established a regulatory body in the
Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources (MENR), to, over the next three years:
(a) establish guidelines for leasing arrangements with interested private
parties;
(b)   document criteria and procedures for evaluating and approving
private sector proposals for thermal and hydro power projects;
(c) establish procedures for settling disputes especially between the TEK
and non-TEK systems;
(d) establish guidelines for the establishment of regional utilities; and
(e) review public sector efficiency.
After two years, Government will assess the work of the regulatory body to
determine whether it should become a separate commission.
7.       In the medium term the Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK) will
remain responsible for power subsector planning, subject to the approval of
the State Planning Organization (SPO). The Government intends to take actions
to make TEK a more efficient institution and potentially of more interest to
private investors by:
(a) subjecting TEK to publicly-available independent audits from 1988;
(b) strengthening TEK's Board of Directors to enable it to assume its
role as an effective policy making body and overseer of TEK's
management; and
(c) requesting the TEK Board to commission a study to review the
relationship between the Board and its General Management and between
the TEK central organization and other organizational units such as
the TEK's Regional Distribution Enterprises and the recently formed



- 54 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 8
production and transmission company. We expect that the Board would
make recommendations for review by Government in 1988.
8.       TEgKs management has already instituted a program to improve planning
and financial management. In 1984 TEK commissioned consultants to assist in
developing a Management Information System. To accelerate the work program
TEK has established a special systems and methods group to design and
implement new financial planning and control systems as well as to ensure that
TEK's accounts fully reflect its financial obligations. The Government
anticipates that by 1990 TEK will have in place a modern financial management
system.
9.       Law number 3096 enabling private sector participation in the energy
sector, was passed in 1984. Regulations prepared by the new regulatory body
can be approved under the law. Law number 3291 has liberalized private
investment in the sector and allows for joint venture activities. A contract
bringing private sector management to Elbistan has been signed. Two private
utilities are constructing hydropower plants. Discussions are under way with
private parties to create integrated regional utilities. A private Turkish
company has signed a contract to build and operate a small hydropower scheme.
The Government is currently in negotiation with international consortia to
employ the Build, Operate and Turnover (BOT) scheme for thermal power plants
utilizing imported coal. TKI has signed contracts with private operators for
about 13 mines.
10.      At present over fifty applications to build and operate power plants
are pending with the Ministry. These range from expressions of interest to a
limited number of firm proposals, and in size from 15 MW to 250 MW thus
establishing that there is potential for private investment. Further progress
will require a regulatory climate that is perceived by the private sector to
be stable, consistent, and well defined.
Investment and Development
11.      Government's objective is to ensure the maximum efficiency of energy
investment and to eusure that public and private investments are coordinated,
form part of a least cost program, and are compatible with longer-term
strategic plans. Several factors have been taken into account in designing a
program to upgrade investment planning and management skills in the energy
sector. For example:
(a) the energy sector will consume about 30% of total public fixed
investment;
(b) there is an urgent need to rationalize public investment and focus on
high priority investments;
(c) public expenditures should be deployed to ensure that private and
public sector efforts are fully complementary; and
(d)  the need to diversify energy supplies has placed greater emphasis
upon intersectoral coordination.



- 55 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 8
12.      The first priority in improving the management of energy investment
is to give emphasis to improvements in national energy planning and the
preparation of an energy sector program of high priority energy investments,
fully funded and compatible with public expenditure rationalization
objectives. Secondly, within a national energy planning framework, attention
will be given to the development of longer-term technical and economic
planning in subsector agencies.
Medium-Term Investment Program
13.      The investment program to 1990 includes high priority projects
designed to expand energy supply as rapidly as possible through efficiency
improvement and the reduction of losses to existirg plant as well as to bring
on stream plant currently under construction. Each agency has been instructed
to focus on the high priority projects and that no new projects should enter
the program unless the following criteria are met:
(a) demonstrated high economic returns;
(b) adequate project management is in place; and
(c) full funding is assured.
At the same time Government will allow agencies to set prices in accordance
with agreed targets for revenue generation; and ensure that financing for the
balance of the investment program is provided on a timely basis. Both MENR
and SPO will monitor progress in implementing the investment program, and will
exchange views with the World Bank annually.
Long-Term Energy Development
14.      The Government's long-term policy is to meet energy demand at least
cost through the appropriate development of indigenous resources as far as
possible. To this end planning at the national level will be strengthened and
detailed long-term plans for individual subsectors will be prepared. Moreover
the data base for indigenous resource development is to be improved. A
program to deal with these issues has been prepared.
National Sector Planning
15.      In 1982 a research, planning and coordination Board was established
in MENR to oversee the coordination of subsectoral plans. The Board is to be
strengthened through a program of technical assistance and staff development.
A work program has been approved for the preparation of a national energy plan
and the development of appropriate energy planning models.
Long-Term Subsectoral Development Plans
16.      Major investments are to be undertaken in the electric power, natural
gas and refinery subsectors:



- 56 -
Annex 3
Page 6 of 8
(a) the electric power subsector accounts for around 602 of investment in
the energy sector. TEK has prepared a least cost generation planning
study to the year 2010 which provides a foundation for investment
decisions for 1987. However, the study will need to be updated every
year, in particular to incorporate the findings of the hydro
inventory and lignite exploration program. Given the poor condition
of the urban networks and the high technical losses a masterplan for
the electricity system of Izmir was completed in 1986 and provided
the basis for including in the 1987 investment program a
comprehensive upgrading of the Izmir network. This has now been
followed by similar studies for Istanbul and Ankara which, together
with Izmir, account for about 652 of total low voltage consumption.
The results of these studies will be reflected in the 1988 and 1989
investment programs. Further studies will be undertaken in the next
three years for other cities with populations over 100,000;
(b) natural gas imports from the Soviet Union will begin in 1987,
starting at 700 million cubic meters and rising by 1993 to 5 billion
cubic meters. A broad gas utilization strategy is in place whereby
natural gas will be used to displace LPG, lignite and heating oil in
urban areas, and naphtha, diesel and fuel oil in the industrial
sector. A gas utilization and investment plan for imported gas is
under preparation and will be completed within 1987. A special
steering group, headed by a Minister of State, has been established
for the task; and
(c) the major imbalances and overcapacity problems that exist in the
refinery sector will be exacerbated by the import of natural gas.
TUPRAS is to prepare a refineries sector masterplan based upon a
detailed petroleum products supply study. The Government will review
the plan's recommendations with a view to developing an
implementation schedule from 1988 onwards.
Indi8enous Resource Development
17.      Turkey is well endowed with energy resources.  Hydropower is
estimated at about 31,000 MW corresponding to an annual generation of 105,000
gWh per annum. In addition, there is a large number of smaller scale hydro
sites which may total 5,000 MW. If all Turkey's technical hydro potential
were exploited it would represent about 70% of total electricity generation by
2010. However a detailed inventory to rank the various hydro sites according
to economic and technical criteria has not yet been compiled. A consultant
was hired in 1985 to prepare plans for developing a national water resource
systems analysis to provide information for such an inventory. MENR has
established a small working group to oversee the work program and consultants
will be hired in 1987 to complete the inventory.
18.      Total lignite reserves are about 8.2 billion tons, of which only 50%
has been explored. Exploration of existing reserves would improve the optimal
location, size and technical configuration of individual mine developments.
MTA has developed a five-year lignite and coal exploration program, which the
Government has approved.



- 57 -
Annex 3
Page 7 of 8
19.      With respect to oil and natural gas resources TPAO will continue to
implement its exploration program. In addition from 1987 TPAO will implement
a three-year program of exploration with special emphasis on priority offshore
and onshore areas with the objective of reviewing, analyzing and reprocessing
existing geological and seismic data and packaging it for joint venture
promotions.
20.      Other indigenous resources, including bituminous shales, uranium,
thorium and geothermal are considered economically less attractive, and there
are presently no major plans to develop them.
Improving Efficiency in the Use of Energy
21.      A threefold approach is being taken to improve energy efficiency as
set out below:
Technical and Operating Efficiency of Public Sector Energy Agencies
22.      A major effort to upgrade TEK's operations was begun in 1985.  A TEK
working group has been established to oversee the upgrading of the generating
and distribution systems and to monitor key performance criteria, including
maintenance. MENR proposes to review the work of this group at the end of
1988 and will then consider whether similar approaches should be adopted for
other energy agencies.
23.      In 1985 the Government hired consultants to undertake a comprehensive
review of TKI's operating practices. The study has been completed and
Government is currently reviewing its recommendations in order to develop an
implementation program.
24.      The refineries masterplan undertaken by TUPRAS will also focus upon
operational efficiency with particular attention paid to refinery balance and
configuration. A review of the present formula for refinery remuneration is
bein8 undertaken with a view to replacing it by an arrangement which will
ensure higher refinery processing efficiency and a better product mix. A
steering committee, headed by MENR, is to be set-up for this task.
Energy Pricing Policy
25.      Since 1984 the Government has adjusted energy prices on a regular
basis. Both electricity and lignite prices have increased in real terms with
the result that prices have moved closer to economic costs and financial
resources for the sector have increased. Prices of petroleum products have
for several years been above economic levels. A pricing formula is being
developed for imported natural gas. The Government intends to implement a
policy whereby energy products will be priced at economic levels as follows:
(a) for electricity prices:
(i)   a study of the structure of tariffs has recently been completed
and is under review. A new and simplified tariff structure will



- 58 -
Annex 3
Page 8 of 8
be introduced starting In 1987, to include time of day pricing.
To facilitate this TEK will introduce new metering equipment over
the next three years;
(ii)   the Government will ensure that priority energy audits are
undertaken for those industries most affected by electricity
costs; and
(iii)   while making allowances for poor households, tariff levels will
be adjusted periodically to ensure a minimum of 352 internal cash
generation.
(b) lignite prices will continue to be set to eliminate operating
subsidies.
(c) petroleum prices will continue to be set at a level at least
equivalent to the CIF price plus internal
transportation costs;
(4) natural gas prices will be set at the border price plus the
costs of transmission and distribution.
Energy Conservation and Demand Management
26.      In 1984 energy audits in selected industries were undertaken and
follow-up investments have been made. TEK is currently implementing a demand
management study which will provide the basis for implementing a program to
conserve electricity. To provide a focal point for energy conservation
activities, the Electricity Survey Administration (EIE) was given
responsibility to develop a comprehensive energy conservation program. A law
outlining EIE's responsibilities in this field will be presented to Parliament
during 1987. The energy conservation program will include the following:
(a) Consultants will be hired in 1987 to provide training; to upgrade the
skills of EIE's staff; and
(b) over 1987-1989 period EIE will manage approximately 21 energy audits
in key energy intensive industries
27.      The Government will ensure that arrangements will be made, including
financing, to implement actions recommended under the energy conaervation
program.



- 59
annxK 4
Page 1 of 2
TUIRKEY
SCHEDULE Of ACIFoMS
Issue                                Aetion                                          Timtng
Institutiona1 VrAMwok
Regulatory Framework              1.  Establish Regulatory Body within       1.   Body established in 1986.
2.  Prepare regulations for private        2.   Program prepared and consultants
investors and operators.                    selected.
Public Accountability             1. Restructure TEK Board.                  l(a) Senior officials and chairman
appointed.
2.  Hire tndependent auditors to audit   Z(a) Short list of firms prepared.
TEK.                                   2(b) Hire auditors by October 1.
1987.
Economic Iorestment
Energy Plannng.                   1.  Strengthen Planning Oepartment of    1.  Work agenda for 1987 through 1919
NEfR.                                       prepared by MERR.  TORs agreed.
2.  Prepare national energy plan.          2.   Plan prepared and submitted to
Minister of Energy by December 31.
1989.
Meduim-Term Investment Program  1.  Implement and fully fund high            1.   Joint review with Government and
priority investment program.                Bsank by October 31 of 1987 and 1988
of the public investment program and
associated financing plan for the
energy sector.
Long-Term Investment Program    1. Revise least-cost electricity plan.  l(a) First revision incorporating Valor
Agua to be completed by March 1,
1988.
l(b) Second revision to be agreed by
December 31. 1988 and completed by
December 31. 1989.
2.  Complete and Implement refinery        2(a) Findings of refineries sector study
masterplan.                                 discussed with Government.
2(b) Complete Petroleum Products Supply
Options study on or before
December 31. 1987 and discuss with
Bank. On basis of study TUPRAS to
prepare by June 1988 masterplan for
refineries subsector.
3.  Implement zamir distribution           3(a) Investments for Iznir included
masterplan.  Complete Ankara and            in 1987 Public Investment program.
Istanbul masterplans.
3(b) Hasterplans to be prepared by
Oecember 31, 1987 and investmnts
included in 1988 Public Investment
Program.
4.  Natural Gas Utilization Plan.          4(a) Steering Committee under Minister of
Petroleum Affairs established.
4(b) Prepare gas plan by December 1987.



- 60 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
£CHEOtLE Olf ACT1flS
_________________________________ _  Aetion                                        Tiling
Effte11icy Imrovewnts
Electricity                      1.  Implemet the Systems Operations       1.  As per schedules in Systems
Project.                                   operations Project.
Lignite                         2. Complet  study of TKI.                  2.  Study to be sent to Bank on or
tDplont fP nding.                          before May. 1988.
Refineries                       l.  Introduce new re_n eration foremla.  1(a) Establish Steering Comittee
under MEMR by June 1987.
1(b) Prepara action plan for
iuplrntation by oeeenber 1987.
2.  Implemmnt findings of refinery        2.   To be reflected in 1988
mesterplan.                                investment program.
Energy Pricing:
(a)  Principles                  la) Printiple of economic pricing          (a) Establisted In policy statement.
established.
(b)  Lignite                     (b) ltiMinate subsidies.                   (b) Operating subsidies to be
eliminated from 1967 onwards.
(c) Electricity                  (e) lple_mt plan to establish new          (c)(i)  few structure to be introduced
tariff structure.                             starting in 1988.
(c)(ii) Ninimmsm 35X internal cash
generation ratio to be met in
Tue8. 1989.
'd)  Gas                        (t) Set gas price  quivalent to             (d) Reflneted in policy stateent.
berder price plus cest e
distribution and transission.
'e)  Petrolesu Products          (a) Prices not to fall below landed        (a) Continue existing policies and
CIr  Istanbul price plus internal          reflct in pocicy statement.
transportation.
Enery Conservation              1.  Prepare t1U Law for passae             1.   To be presented during 1987.
throush Parliament.
I.  Implme_t energy audits in  _t         2.   Set against agreed timetable.
21 key industrial plants.
3.  Train ElK staff.                      3.   Program and agenda prepared on
other sources.
4.  Provide finance for iplementing      4.   Through DVY.
reco a ndations of audits.
5.  Implemet electricity d_nd             S.   Study to be completed by
_nament study.                             Oece_r 1987.



- 61 -
Annex 5
TURKEY
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
The PrIErity Euert= Investment Prsm
(1987-1989)
ELECTRIC POWER (TEK, DSI)
Thermal Generation. (a) Complete: Elbistan A; Trakya 1-6; Soma B 3-4;
Yenik8y 1-2; Cayirhan 1-2; Kangal 1-2; Yeni Catalagzi, Orhaneli,
Seyitomer; (b) Continue Kemerkoy.
Hydro Generation.  (a) Complete Tercan; Karacaoren; Karakaya; Kapulkaya;
Kokluce; Altinkaya; Menzelet; Adiguzel; Gezende; Kilickaya; (b) Continue
Ataturk; Kayraktepe; Boyabat.
Transmission - 380 KV lines: Osmanca - Bogazatla; Sincan-Oswanca;
Elbistan-Sincan; Kayabasi-Cankin; Karakaya-Keban; Yatagan-Izikler;
Cankin-Osmanca; Karakaya-Erzin; Karakaya-Diyakbakir.
Distribution - Ankara, Istanbul, Ismir to receive at least 30 percent of
allocation for distribution. Level of expenditures at least TL 100
billion (1985 prices).
Village Electrification - no real increase in expenditures for Village
Electrification. Focus on completion of ongoing projects in Eastern
provinces.
Other Investment - priority for maintenance and rehabilitation,
specialized vehicles, new headquarters building.
LIGNITE (TKI)
Ongoing Projects: Elbistan A; Beypazari (Cayirhan); Bursa (Orhaneli);
Tuncbilek; Sivas (Kangal); Soma Isiklar; Soma Denis; Seyitomer 4; Milas
Sekkoy (Yenikoy); Tinaz Bagyakar (Yatagan 3); Mugla-Husanslar
(Kemerk8y). New Projects: no new discrete projects but continued
funding for rehabilitation and maintenance of existing ongoing mines
(exact requirements to be determined by ESAL mission). Note: name of
associated power plant is given in parentheses.
OIL AND GAS (TPAO, TUPRAS, BOTAS)
Refineries - TUPRAS to undertake a petroleum products supply options
study to ascertain costs of correcting current and projected refinery
configuration imbalances. Options
include: (a) increased throughput under existing refinery operation;
(ii) installation of secondary conversion; (iii) offshore processing.
Pipelines - Yarmutalik - Kirikkale crude oil line; Iraq-Turkey 2nd. crude
oil line; Thrace gas pipeline (Phase 1 to Istanbul/Gemlik; Phase 2 Genlik
to Ankara).
Exploration - Bati Raman; equipment renewal; geological/geophysical
surveys; well drilling and well services.
CONSERVATION (EIE, MENR)
Industry - key industries such as ferrochrome, aluminium, copper, glass,
fertilizer, cement to be audited for energy efficiency and investment
requirements assessed.



- 62  -
pa"q l'of 4
TURKEY
ENERGY SECTOR AJUDSTMEN LOgAN
&aOWN~ GMave and Goods and Sei'iee to be Procured
Summparv of Foreiag Finamce Gave
US$ million
1.   M4ENR                                                  2
2.   TEK i/                                               101
3.   EIE                                                   35
4.   TUPRAS                                                65
5.   Petrol Ofisi (POAS)                                   19
6.   BOTAS 2/                                              16
7.   TPAO                                                 210
8.   GDPA                                                   1
9.   TKI 3/                                               175
10.  TTK                                                   20
11.  MTA                                                   45
Total                                                689
Physical cont. (10%)                                  69
Price cont (10%)                                      69
TOTAL                                                827
1/  Excludes Kemerkoy (US$53 million) for which Polish credits are likely to
be available.
2/   Excludes Central Anatolia-Samsun product line (US$100 million) which
needs to be confirmed.
3/   May increase following results of TUSTAS study.



63-
" .   'g,'   ! 6
Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
t:  .t .    iECHNICAL ASSIANCE
USt million 1/
MmENR - eargy planning (inc. computers - bardware/software)         1
-.rjgulatory freAewrk '(inc. computer, -
6sz4war~Isoftvare)                                           1
Ely  - eergy conservation (inc. audits)                             5
TUPRAS - Supply options Stud.y                                      1
TPAO - offahore promotion                                           5
-GDPA - training, software                                           1
E.vironment (SPO; TER University of Istanbul)                        1
15
j,IAll rounded toAsearedt million.
may 198T
3262F,
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,V



-64 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
TURKEY
ENERGY SECTO  AUSTHgNT LOAM
fgraian Finance1 USt.)
10C.1       Agence               DRscription of GoofdtS/rS eea           1911    1988       1989      I2
1.   Ministry of Ener9y and    (a) Energy Planning, training.             0.1     0.2       0.1        0.4
K4tural Resources (HENRB       seminars (T.A.)
(b) Regulatory framework, training        0.3     0.4       0.3        1.Q
Ic) Computer hardware and software        0.15    0.15      -          0.3
Agency subtotal                 0.55    0.75      0.4        1.7
2.   Turkish Electricity        (a) 380 kV transmission lines             -       3.0       23.0      26.0
Authority (TEK)                (conductors. towers. fittings)
(b) 380 kV substations (switchgear.       -       0.5       2.2        2.7
protection)
(c) 380 kV series capacitors              -       0.4       2.1        2.5
(d) 154 kV conductors                     -       -         7.0       7.0
(e) 154 kV substation feeders (Ankara.   -        -        15.0       15.0
Istanbul)
(f) Distribution equipment (Arkara.       -       -         8.2        8.2
Istanbul)
(g) Distribution equipment (Imir)         -       1.0       1.0        2.0
Sh) Distribution equipment (others)       1.0     4.0       5.0       10.0
,1) Machinery (cranes. dosers. etc.)      -       4.0       4.0       8.0
(j) Power Plant Rehabilitation            -       5.0      1S.0       20.0
Agency subtotal                 1.0    17.7      82.5      101.4
3.   Electricity Survey         (a) Technical Assistance, training        0.240   0.569     0.256      1.065
Administration (EIEI       (b) Energy audits for industries          2.000   2.123     2.312      6.435
Cc) Retrofitting equipment to improve    2.500  13.000    12.000    27.S00
energy efficiency
Agency subtotal                4.740  15.692    14.568    35.000
4.   State Refineries           (a) Petrol. Prod. Supply Options Study   o.SOO   0.500       -         1.000
AesnCv (TUPRBS)            (b) Mid Anatolia hydrocracking unit       8.000  20.667    26.667    55.334
Cc) lamit - 135,000 HP Tank               -       -         0.667      0.667
(d) 12nit - HP Vacuum units               -       0.667     2.667      3.334
Ce) Izmit - hydrocracking unit            -       -         1.333      1.333
Cf) Batman - HP unit                      -       -         2.667      2.667
(9) 8atman - Naphtha Sweetening Unit      -       0.267     0.400      0.667
(h) Batman - Dom + Ind Disposal System   -        -         0.333     0.333
Agency subtotal                 8.500  22.101    34.734    6S.335
5.   Petrel Ofisi               (a) Automatic filltng machinery           1.333   1.333      -         2.666
fPOASl                    Ib) Production materials                   0.010   0.00S     0.007      0.022
Cc) Transportation materials              1.077   1.465     2.007     4.549
Cd) Various station equipment             0.266   0.3S2     0.468      1.086
(e) Various office equipment              0.467   0.583     0.146      1.196
(f) Other expenditures (listed as         2.372   3.085     4.051      9.S08
overhead3 in Treasury list)
Agency subtotal                 5.525   6.823     6.679    19.027
6.   State Pigelines            (a) Telecommunication. telecontrol        6.267   4.000      -        10.267
Agex teOamSI                   equipment for Yuwurtalik-Kirikkale
HPPL
(b) Telecommunication. telecontrol        1.067   0.912     0.021      2.000
modernization for Batman-Dortyol
HPPL
(c) Replacement of four units of          0.160   0.320     0.160      0.640
propeller systems
(d) Loading arms and spares               0.933   -         -          0.933
(e) Telecommunication vehicles            0.467   -         -          0.467
(f) Snow vehicles                         0.187   -         -          0.187



- 65 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
gERCV SEctTOR ADJUSTIET LOA N (got. I
Foreign Finance . StuM
Nos..       Agenec                Description of Gops/Serviejg           192    JiBE        1iB2      totlau
(9) Sea pollution preventer               0.280    0.653                0.933
(h) Helicopter                            0.800               -         0.800
Agency subtotal                10.161    S.885      0.181    16.227
7.   Turkish Petroleum        (a) Casing - tubtng                       8.0      8.0        8.0      24.0
gncZ ITPAOI              (b) Chonicals                             2.0      2.0        2.0       6.0
Cc) Well head equipment                   1.0      1.0        1.0       3.0
(d) Rock bits                             0.6      0.6        0.6       1.8
(a) Drilling equipment (consumables)      1.4      1.4        1.4       4.2
(f) Production equipment (consumables)   1.0       1.0        1.0       3.0
(9) Offshore promotion assistance         -        5.0        -         5.0
(h) Other production costs. services
and materials 3/                     42.7     57.9       62.9     163.5
Agency subtotal                56.7     76.9       76.9     210.S
8.   The Ge.egral             (a) Technical assistance.                 -         0.410     O.SOO     0.910
O1rectorat&Aot               training, hardware.
Petroiem  Affairs            software
Agency subtotal                 -        0.410      0.500     0.910
9.  Turk(sh Lignit            (a) Elbistan - various spare parts       12.S00   12.500    12.500    37.500
Authority IYKIl
(b) Beypazari - spare parts              33.435    -          -        33.435
(c) Milas - Serkoy - spare parts          S.000    -                    5.000
(d) Sivas Kangal - spare parts            3.750    8.500      -        12.2SO
(a) Soma Isiklar - spare parts            7.238    -          -         7.238
(f) Mugla Hasamlar - spare parts          S.000    7.000      9.800    21.800
(g) Tunebllek - retrofitting             29.188    -          -        29.188
and upgrading
(h) Other rehabilitation and             28.750    -          -        28.7S0
moetrnization equipment
Agency subtotal               124.861   28.000    22.300   175.161
10.  MUMk   colCe.            (a) Washer replacements for               -       15.0        S.0      20.0
A ancz (TTKI                 Catalagzi
Agency subtotal                 -       1S.0       S.0       20.0
11. Minerals Exploration    (a) Specialized vehicles                    0.307    0.556      0.603     1.466
Agenm   fIA)             (b) Geophysics Dept. - spare parts        1.957    1.220      0.977     4.154
(c) Mine Analyses Dept. - chemicals.      0.062    -          -         0.062
spare parts, materials
(d) Geological Oept. - computers.         0.121    -          -         0.121
microscopes. other equipment
te) Drilling Oept. - chemicals.           4.SS0   17.173    17.173    38.896
spares. equipment
Agency subtotal                 6.997   18.949    18.753    44.699
GRAND TOTAL                   219.034  208.410   262.515   689.959
1/   Includes construction. servitt-, technical assistance. training and miscellaneous materials and equipment.
March 1987
3262P



-  66 -
Am.ex 7
Page 1 of 5
TURKEY
Energy Balances. 1985-2010
#ATi. mm    E   .TvUi.   1 9  5
1(TOE,M licas of Ntric tas MI EquIvalet)
I  SOLIDILS 9COAODS.          OR          GAS     NUILE     MM  a           OIER  ELECTRICITY     HEAT       TOTAL
INIOIS PRD.   I           18.970     10.=         2.291      0.061      0.000       2.692      0.000                            24.014
IMPORTS (.)        1       1.624      1.624      17.374      0.0090                                       9.1M                  I.381
EIPIRTS H          I       0.000      0.000       1.73       0.000 oo.0                                                          1.714
M1IN   UERS I- 1           0.000      0.000       0.309                                                                          0.309
STCKCHNES (.-I    1      -0.218     -0.218       0.482      0.000                                                               0.64
TOTAL PRItMY EINERYI      20.376      11.927     M8.M65      0.061      0.000       2.,rz      0.000       0.184      0.000     41.417
TRANF    TION AnD  1                                                                                                             7.636
13     ECTOR       1       4.0es      4.09        3.311     -0.03)      0.000       2.692                  2.434                 7.636
EECTRIC 6EIEP TIl I        3.86       3.86        1.747      0.016      0.000       2.692                  .942                  s.3m
A  NANUFACTURE    1        0.112      0.112       0.014      0.047                                                               0.078
OIL rEFIES         I       0.000      0.000       1.066                                                    .00                   1.046
LIGEFACTION        I
031 USE AND LOSSES I       0.101      0.101       0.414                                                   0.509                  1.094
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                 - - - - - - - -
TOTAL FINA.        1      16.276      7.828      1.S4        0.092      0.000       0.000      0.000      2.617       0.000     33.840
CON8UIWTION        I      16.27       7.i28      14.854      0.092      0.000       0.000      0.000      2.617       0.000     3.41
INUSTRY  OTAL     1        4.223      4.223       3.51       0.04                                         1.665                  9.445
IRON AN STEEL     1        2.260      2.20   -0.246          0.000                                        0.233                  2.739
NN FRUS NETALS  I          0008       0.00o       0.187                                                   0.220                  0.415
PETRE AND CHN   I          0.010      0.010,  ,0.e40                                                      0.30'                  0.950
PETRO    FESTOCIS                                                                                                                0.000
OTHER IN TRIE      I       1.945      1.945       2.440      0.045                                         0.912                 5.341
TRNPTATIaN TOTALI          0.127      0.127       6.114      0.000                                        0.016                  6.27
ROAD               1                              5.502                                                                          5.502
OTOER SECtORS TOTAL I     11.7        3.478      3.70        0.047                             0.000      0.936                 16.619
RESETIAL           I                                                                                                             0.000
NO-EIR    USE     I                               1.520                                                                          1.520
ELECTRICITY GENMATED (Twb)t          15.028      7.079       0.058      0.000      12.049                                       34.213
CAPACITY 483)                         3.106       2.023      0.100      0.00       3.          0.000      0.000                  9.119
aasuinu~iniu    --------- -2sg --,zu3auzu243u3uax3a3a8au3aa2
GO Grauth Rate Nt.. Years        1984-1915  4.9 1                                                    POPULATtUII/n NfllImh      49.282
Source: MNMR/RPCB, dated June, 1986.



-  67  -                                                 Annex  7
Page 2 of 5
TURKEY
Energy Balances.  1985-2010
IIATIONM. EERG  BAWLANJ .1UIMEY.     1 99 0
';fTEoliflios of  Wc    to" oil E valtelt
1  SOLID FE  CUIRODS.          OIL        GA       NaE     eYDR      O       T     EIC     ITI1      Ar      TOTAL
1100W015 Fno.   1         25.82       16.42       2.394      0.641       0.000      6.913      0.036                             35.26
IIMTS (+1          1       4.182      4.182      tO.480      2.670                                         0.000                25.3
EXPIRTS (-)        I       0.000       0.000      0.000      0.000                                         0.000                  W.000
NRINE 0113 1-)  I          0.000       0.000      0.000                                                                           0.000
STOCK CHAN8ES (+/-I £      O.OOC      0.00        0.000     -0.334                                                               0.334
tOtAL PRIMIf 1EM1R13      29.444     21.024      20.814      2.977      0.000       6.913      O.ff6       0.000      0.000     1A.264
REID  ElENT        I
tRViSfOINATION AND  I
ENERGY SECTOR      I       8.750      0.710       3.714      0. 89       0.000      6.913                  4.752                 15.515
ELECTRIC GRATIE 1          0.414       9.414      1.639      0.9GB       0.00*      6.913                  6.558                 11.394
gAS IWNACtRE       I       0.201      0.201       0.017      0.0"                                                                0.119
OiL REfINERIES     I       0.000      0.000       1.493                    0-     -                             .                 1*493
LiOUEACTIDN        I
o1 USE ANdLwES   I         0.135       0.135      0.56                                                     1.807                  2.507
TOTAL FtNL         I
COIPTIOU           1      20.714      12.274     17.16       1.427       0.000      0.000      0.036       4.752      0.000      44.0
INUSTRV TOTAL     I        7.716      7.718       2.305      1.079                             0.011       2.907                 14.020
IRON AND STEEL     1       4.395      4.395       0.305      0.000                                         0.346                 5.045
NOR FERROUS NETALS  I      0.011       0.011      0.158                                                    0.321                  u.490
PETRWOEI MID CEIN  I       0.013     -.01         0.980                                                    0.610                  1.6i3
FE TROCNEII FEEOSTOCSI                                                                                                            0.000
OTaER INDStRIES    1       3.29       4W.         0.ko2      1.07.                             0.013       1.57!                  6.822
TRANSPORHIIOt TOTALI       0.000      0.00-       8042-      0.00                                          0.042                 8.084
ROA                1                              7.03                                                                             .6
OIER SECTORS TOTAL I      32.996      4.556       4.884      0.348                             0.025       1.502       '    D     0.054
RESIDENTIA L           1 2.996        4.5%6       2..7i    0.349                               0.025        .1        1.'01 P.1
NONE     USE       I                              1. 30 t.9J0
ELECTRICITY GENERTED (twhis          32.559       8.424      4.330      0.000      30.945                                       76.25
CAITY (aM)                            5.a46       1.913      0.710      0.000       8.126      0.000       0.000                10.395
zinmmmuguuuuzm.mas*, ----------                       xa
GB Growtb Rate Bitwn  iars 1984-19901 5.R S                                                          POPULATION(In 4illiansl      54.6
Source:  MER/RPCB, dated June, 1986.



-  68  -
Page 3 of 5
.TUR,
E^Ptg  B*lauce.. 1985-2010
NartM  ENRYh.IE .flhNhE.              1 9 9 5
INTOEaNllimn of eic toins 0il £qiivalumt3
I  13iW FMELS CSSMOID.          OIL         aS        uCEmA   lIVE     I A go  O11   ELmECItCItY       NEAT      TOTA.
INlDEU  PO.    1           26.592      19.241       2.44       0.641       0.46       1.69         0.36                              45.176
"IsIIT  (+)        I        8.316       6.118      24.136      4.5                                            0.000                  37.141
Et8P  t-           I -0.00*             0.000       0.000       0.00                                           o.O                    0.000
3*3 IIE PAERS 1-)  I       0.000       0.000       0.000                                                                             0.000
sreo  u M Ia rI-  t         o      .ooo   o    .ooo  o.oo      -o.o067                                                                 .0
TOTAL F   R EERiG!         314.710     26.339      26.621       5.469      0.436      14.689       0.33        0.000       0.000     82.24*
aEumi               I
TPR4 IA5tIlON *    1                                                                                                                 21.902
ENRY ECON          1        9.043       9.043       4.248       1.493      0.43       14.69                    8.007                 21."2
ETECTRIC ENRTt   I          8.55        6.595       1.b"        1.633      0.436      14.689                   9.785                  17.209
046 NMIUFACTURE     I       0.2         0.28S       0.07       0.140                                                                 0.162
OKL WINIES         I        0.000       0.000       1.974                                                     4.01                    l.B74
LIOUEfCTIO         I
a sE o IN  LOSS    1        0.163       0.163       0.71K                                                      1.7                    2.5
TOTEL FINEL        I
CONWTItO           1       25.67       17.316      22.372       2.303      0.000       0.000       0.336       8.007       0.000     5.X69
...    azsm.         sm.      m     2m        2 lUn*U U2"m                                             8
INDUR  TOTAL       t        0.92       10.92         .549       1.273                              0.205       4.949                 20.899
IOla  MI STEEL     I        6.669       6.669       0.o5       0.000                                           0.460                  '.764
Nfl FERROUS RETAIl I        0.011       0.011       0.209                                                      0.317                  0.537
PETRHEN AID LIcm I          0.03        0.013       1.086                                                      0.725                   1.826
PtEICE FEEDOTOCKSI                             -                                                                                      0.000
8TIEI l1l00t91s    1        4.230       4.230       1.617       3.m                                0.205       3.447                  10.771
imERtatlAi TOTAL!           0.009       0.000      10.430      0.000                                           0.03                  10.512
ROAD        I                       ............ 9.961                                                                                9.961
noER SECTeRS TOTAL 1       14.745       6.393       5.994       1.030                              0.131       2.975                  14.767
._..__  _ _        ____ ___ ____ _  ______..._   _.____._                                            _     .__._  _ -            - .__
- RESIOERTiL       1       14.745       6,393       2.950       1.030                              0.131       2.M15                 21.670
NoNEIEy liSE       I                                2.507                                                                             2.507
LECtRICItY SENERATED (tibit            33.316       4.?54       1.800       1.950     65.15                                         113.177
CPWITY 485                              5.772       1.393       1.230      0.325      1J.025       0.000       0.000                 25.45
V,aD*uSu0s                                                  auq                       _          __ a_
OFP frath Rate kbtmm  VFW  I990-195s 1.0 I                                                               MULATION(In Nillin)l          io.
Source: IMER/RPCB, dated June, 1986.



-  69  -                                      ~~~~~Annex .
Page 4 of 5
Z?BY 3laites B                   1985-2010
ATIOl OM    ALANC .TUREM.              2 0 0 0
NtONhIlions of fAitt  TIos oil Etqivalitl
t  salo fag cULIPR.             onI         on       mnm        Mu  & w         oam     ELECTRICITY      EAT        rom.
fl11E85  FOn.    1         29.123      20.05B       2.2         0.645        0.07       22.370       0.714                              5345
119i0m    4.5       1       15.041      15.041      34.637       5.30                                            0.000                  55.21
ElIORTS (-)         I        0.000       0.000       0.000       0.000                                           0.000                   0.000
19115 955t   (-)  I          0.000       0.04        0.000                                                                               0.000
STIOIHWSIS 44i-5 1           0.000       0.000       0.000       0.00                                                                    0.000
TOrAL PlA"R   NEvI          44.145      35."0       37.442       5.911       0.971      22.370       0.714       0.000       0.000     111.563
wnoNux I
ENEa"Y SECR         1       13.477      13.477       4.923       1.467       0.871      22.370                  12.507                  30.501
ELECTIR  51IERC ISt   I     12.920      12.920       1.639        .633       0.971      22.370                  14.449                  24.995
on5 MI U1          t1       0.33      1       O.9   0.00t       0.166                                                                   0.173
OIL  IER IES        I        0.000       0.00        2.111                                                       0.0                     2.171
tIISIEFACTION       I
001 USE AM LOSSES  1         0.219       0.219       1.011                                                       I.943                   5.173
TOTAL FIIAL         I
IBUIWTION           1       30.608      22.423      32.639       2.841       0.000       0.000       0.714      12.507       0.000      79.389
INOTRY TOTAL        1      14.460       14.8         6.383       1.533                               0.473       7.929                  30.696
IW   AN  STEEL      I       10.034      10.034       0.966       0.00                                            0.5t6                  11.516
MIM FERR   EtALS  i          0.011        0          0.3C3                                                       0.372                   0.747
PEtRow    AN   E   I         0.013      L013.        2.074                                                       0.974                   3.0
?Et#O(M  FEEDSTOCKSI                                                                                                                     0.00
OTHER MiUSTRIES    1         4.410      4.§10        2.910       1.533                               0.473       5.9,7                  15.3b2
TR CORTATIOI TOTALI          0.00        0.000      14025  0-000                                                 0.142                  14.167
ROAD                I                               11.562                                                                              11.562
OTHER SECTORS tOTAL 1       16.220       7.955       7.370       1.308                               0.241       4.536                  29.675
RESIOEUTI.L         1       16.220       7.355       2.933       1.308                               0.241       4.40                   t5.151
IIIIIFRSY USE       I                                4.S62                                                                               4.CU2
ELEIRICIT'V sE TED (Tvli                51.226       4.94        7.t00       3.900     10.136                                         16L016
CPACITY (61)                             0.757       1.393       1.230       0.650      26.023       0.000       0.000                  MM.953
SIP 6oth  Rdto  twubn Ywus 1995-2000    7I t.                                                              POPULATIONln milIions)a        .7.3
So6Urce: MENR/RPCB, dated June, 1986.



-70  -Anmex 2
Page 5 of 5
TURY
Energy Balances.  1985-2010
hATIlS ENERY NAIE  .Tooi.   2 0 1 0
(NITOftRilli uf Metrit to  Oil Equivaiet)
I  SOLIO QE CLSWW             OIL         as      IcLEA   NM   6E0          OTEI  lECTRICITY       SEAT      TOTAL
tIoItEmIJS PRMI.   I      40.957     33.126       2.625      0.641       7.707     29.231      2.5t                               s".m
IlIURTS (03        1      35.913     35."3       61.35      14.240                                         0.000                111.536
EXPORTS 1-)        I       0.000       0.000      0.000      0.000                                         0.000                 0.000
wRinE 1       (-1  I       0.000       0.000      0.000                                                                          0.000
stom  CHAIES .-            0.000       0.000      0.000     -1.335                                                               -1.335
ratO fumy? ENERGI         76.669     69.039      64.010     13.544       J.707     29.231      2.54        0.000      0.000    193.929
EWtlIE             I
iTuwomMrIomI ANDI
hERS6 SECTOR       I      31.431      31.437      a.717      3.90        7.707     29.231                 24.60W 56.#
ElECTRtC SEI TIOE  I      30.414      30.414      4.247      4.196       7.701     29.231                 27.384                 46.411
GAS mwfCTIE        I       0.5tO      0.570       0.001      0.216                                                                O.3
OIL REFINERIfS     I       0.000       0.000      2.741                                                    0.00f                  2.741
LIQEF:ACTI         I
O11 USE AN  LOSSES  I      0.454      O.434       1.720                                                    2.776                  4.9
TOTAL FlA          I
CONWSIPTIE         I      45.432     37.601      55.93       7.692       0.000      0.000      2.5t6      24.606      0.00d    135.791
iNUSTRY TOTAL     1       25.922     2.922        9.500      4.714                             3.649      16.92                 58.714
ItRON mSTEEL       1      19.35       19.3        1.439      0.000                                         1.116                21.913
N  fERRCOS METALS 1        0.020       0.020      0.540                                                    0.397                  0.957
PETPOCHENNM CMI    1       0.023      0;.0"L...   3.0S0                                                    2.100                  5.213
PETRiOi  EttfEEOSt I                                                                                                              0.000
amER tITRIES    I          6.521       6.521      4.43?      4.714                              t.649     13.314                 30.413
TRI OtATION TOTALI         0.000      0.000      23.953      0.000                                         0.3"6                24.315
ROAD              I                               a1.771                                                                        16.771
OTHER SECTORS TOTAL 1     19.510      11.679      9.446      3.176                             0.917       7.314                40.365
RESIOENTIAL        1      19.510      11.679      3.108      3.175                             0.917       7.171                33.a83
NO-ERY  USE        I                             12.394                                                                          12.394
fLECTRICITY GEEATEO (Twb):           115.126     15.754     22.200      34.500    130.44                                        318.424
CAPAcIrf ISIS                         t 39.407    3.193      3.430       5.750     32.469      0.000       0.000                .4.449
6OP Brath Rate btum  tears 2000-20100 6.5 1                                                          POPULATIONIl Millih)         03.1
Source: MENR/RPCQ, dated June, 1986.



- 71.-
Annex 8
TURKEY
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ENERGY RESERVES
Energy Source
Hydropower        105,000 GWh p.a.        90-250   105,000 GWh p.a.    90-250 a/
Lignite             4,140 m tons           902       7,343 m tons        1,610
Hard Coal             186 m tons           112       1,366 m tons          820
Petroleum              17 m tons            17           ..
Natural Gas             8 m SCF/day        ..            ..
Bituminous Shale      340 m tons            41       2,000 m tons          240
Asphaltite           0.55 m tons             0.2        53 m tons           22
Uranium             2,300 tons U 0          4-11     4,600 tons U 0      8-22 a/
Thorium           380,000 tons ThO         ..      380,000 tons ThO
Calorific values assumed
10 kcal/ton
2etroleum                                   10
Lignite - Elbistan                           1.16
- Other (average)                    3
Hard Coal                                    6
Bituminous Shale                             1.2
Asphaltite                                   4.3
a/   Present values of electricity outputs at 10% discount rate.  Lower end of
ranges based on heat equivalent (1 kWh - 860 kcal), upper end on amount
of fossil fuel that would be required to generate the same quantity of
electricity in conventional steam power stations, assuming specific fuel
consumption of 2,400 kcal/kWh (the approximate average for new lignite-
fueled stations in Turkey).
Notes (1) Hydropower figure is latest estimate of economically exploitable
potential with current technology. Theoretical potential is
-     430,000 GWh.
(2) Bituminous shale figures relate to shale with heat value exceeding
850 kcal/kg (average 1,200 kcal/kg).
-ource:  MENR, TEK, TKI, TPAO



- 72 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TURKEY'S ENERGY POLICY AN)D DECLINIG OIL PRICES
1.       The Macro Impact.  The recent decline in international oil prices is
likely to have a favorable direct impact upon the balance of payments - every
US$1 fall in oil prices results in a gross saving to Turkey of some US$120
million. In the 1986-1990 period savings would amount to US$1.0 billion, if
Turkey could capture all the savings from spot market purchases. However, the
favorable direct impact will be offset, to some extent, by lower export growth
to oil exporting countries (401 of Turkey's exports) as well as by a reduction
in workers' remittances from these countries. On the other hand an increase
in Turkish exports to, and workers remittances from OECD countries on account
of a more favorable OECD growth outlook is possible. Considering all these
factors, estimates of the net positive impact of the oil price decline on
Turkey's balance of payments are about US$200 - 300 million per annum. An
improvement in the balance of payments would give the Government the option of
repaying its external debt sooner, thus improving Turkey's debt service ratio
in coming years, or alternatively utilizing the incremental resources to
support a more rapid growth strategy. The economic growth implications of
declining oil prices would in turn lead to an increased domestic demand for
energy in general and electricity in particular.
2.       The Micro Impact.  Declining oil prices may have an impact upon
choice of technique especially in the electric power and industry sectors.
However, given the present oil price projections which do not fall below
pre-1974 levels, it is likely that Turkey's basic energy strategy will remain
unchanged. Nevertheless:
(a) Given lead times of four-six years for capital intensive projects in
the industry and power sectors, the reference comparator for use in
project analysis is anticipated prices in 1991; when oil prices are
expected to have rebounded to around US$14/barrel (1984 prices)
equivalent in real terms to oil prices in 1978. Furthermore oil
prices would need to fall to about US$10/bbl (1984 prices) and remain
at that level before competing, on -A comparative energy basis, with
coal. L'
(b) Dual firing (e.g., oil/coal) may gain greater prominence especially
where its incremental cost is low and is an option worth evaluating,
for example, in the case of the proposed imported coal fueled power
stations.
1/ On the basis of the Bank's latest oil and coal price projections.



- 73 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
(c) Marginal capital intensive energy conservation activities such as
industrial retrofitting may need reevaluation - a relatively simple
project analysis - on both grounds of scheduling and viability.
Preliminary analysis of selected energy audits in Turkey indicate
however that energy conservation remains economically viable even
under continued low oil prices.
(d) The timing and costs of investments in the exploration and
development of indigenous oil and gas reserves may be affected.
(e) Given the considerable uncertainty of future price movements, risk
and uncertainty should become recognized explicitly as an issue in
the context of subsectoral planning.
3.       The impact of oil price declines on end users will remain a function
of Government domestic petroleum product pricing policy. For energy intensive
users such as TEK the new prices, had they occurred in 1985 and been passed on
to TEK, would have resulted in a decrease in overall operating expenses of
about 10%, equivalent to 82 of the investment program for that year.-I The
Government is reviewing its future domestic petroleum product pricing policy
taking into account future expected international price movements, impact of
energy prices on comparative advantage of the industrial sector, and fiscal
policy.
1/ Despite the fact that TEK has commissioned no new fuel oil fired plants in
the last seven years fuel oil still represents in value 54% of TEK's total
fuel bill and 201 of real operating costs. Internal cash generation as a
proportion of total investment would have improved from 321 to 38X.



TU.qvt   - ENERGY SECtQR AQSTT LOAN
St44RYOFSTUDIES, WMRKING PAEtS AMI THA  KM0 I  SO=T OF ENERGY SEO  AUhN  LOM  (ESAIL
Sector/
Field of                                                                                Objectives             SvUry of
nx1aaatl                 Ttis                Studa Soars             3rjef S    sS          for E.SUAhtionsPrLSaped
1. GENRAL          (a) Energy Sector  Working paper Sank (EIPPE)  o Provides             a Suarizes issues t. Covers the three
Adjustment Loan                                 background          and provides         issues areas:
Working Paper.                                  working paper for  guidance for
mission  enmbers    mission mombers      - nstitutions
and other                                - investment
Interested                               - Efficitncy
parties.
o Outlines the
issues agenda.
O Outlines other
operational
issues relating
to procurement,
scheduling. etc.
(b) Letter to       Letter         Sank (E t&  o Provides swu_ry  o Background            1. Background
Oeputy Under                   EN2A)            for senior Govt.
Secretary,                                      policyrakers of
Treasury, Govt,                                 policy issues to
of Turkey                                       be addressed
under ESALI.
(c) Energy Sector  Aide Megaire   Bank            o Sumsrizes         a Not applicable.   1. Qackground
Adjustment Loan                                 findings of
Mission -- Aide                                 preparation
Memire.                                         mission.
o tdentifies steps
to be taken by
preappraisal.
(d) Energy Sector  SRA             Bank           o Suuarties key    o Background         1. Background
Strategy Paper                                  issues in energy
sector.
o Outlines broad
strategy for
dealing with
issues.
(e) Turkiye '*in                   HE"R. Govt.    o Provides overview o Background        1. Background                    o
re Seleckteki                  of Turkey        of Turkey's
Enerji Duruwa;                                  energy policy
and Enerji
Istatistikleri                                o Provides detailed
strategical
annexes on the
energy sector.



TURKEY - ENERGY SECTOR ADJU$ThENT LOAN (Cont.)
SUJAlARY OF STUDIES. -QRKING PAPERS AND TEHICAL NOTES IN SUPPORT OF ENEMY SECTOR ADJUSTENT LOAN fESAL)
Sector/
Field of                                                                                   Objectives              Summary of
Investioation            Title        Type of StudX       SQurce        Irf1ief Synopsis        for ESAL           Actions PropoSed
2. INSTITUTIONAL   (a) Institutional   Policy                Bank       o Reviews policy    o Agree on the set  1. Establish regulatory
fRAMEWORK         framework        briefing for   (Con & EMPPE)    constraints to        of substantive        body.
governing the   senior                            GOT objectives       issues to be
energy sector.  policymakers.                     for involving        addressed.        2. Redefine *rule of
private                                   game' for private
investment and    o Agree on actions      investors to ensure
for improving       to be undertaken      adequate incentives
public sector       by GOT.               in place.
efficiency and
accountability.                        S. Redefine 'rules of
game" for leasing
o Identifies                                arrangements to
actions to be                             encourage private
taken by GOT to                           involvement.
establish an
appropriate                            4. Train staff and
regulatory                                develop manpower to
framework for                             cater to new skills.
both public and
private sector.                        S. TEK to have external            -.
financial audits by
o Focuses on TEK                             1987.
(largest agency)
but would be                           6. TEK to change 8oard
applicable to                             composition.
other revenue-
earning energy                         7. TEK to reflect full
agencies.                                 financial
obligations.
(b) TEK'S financial Policy          Government      o Analyses of TEK's o Agree actions to      As per 4 through 7 in
policies.       briefing for   financed           financial           be taken to lay        (a) above.
senior         study. (Lazard   situation.            foundations for
policymakers.  Freres hired                           improving TEK's
by MENR).      o Proposes policy      financial
changes to          management and
improve financial   external
autonomy and        financing
allow access to     arrangements.
foreign and local                                                         0
capital markets.                    
o Govt. to
undertake similar
effort for TKI
once TEK study is
complete.



TUgKEY - ENERGY SECMOR AJUSTMENT LOAN (Cont.)
SUMMARY OF STUDIES, WORKING PAPERS AND TECHNICAL NOTES IN SUPPORT OF ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN tESALI
Sector/
Field of                                                                                      Objectives              Sumary of
Invost1iatign            Ittla         Tye of Study         Source        Brief Synopsis          for n SAL           Actions Proaosed
(c) Manpower              SRA           Bank         o Comprehensive      o To be determined. 1. To be determined.
requirements                        (EMPED)        review of                                   Work in progress.
for the Energy                                     technical,
Sector                                             financial and
(tentative).                                       administrative
staffing
requirements in
supoort of Govt's
energy policies.
o Identification of
manpower
deficiencies.
o Identification of                                                             cs
adequacy of
training
facilities.
o Recomnendations
for acticn.
3. IYVESTMENI      (l) Turkey Public           ERA           Bank        o Review4 sectoral  Agree upon a "core" 1. Agreed *core*
Investment                                         planning and       itvestment and           investment prografa in
Review.  See                                       investment across financing program         electricity, lignite,
esp volune 4                                       all sectors.       for the 1987             "jil, gas sectors.
"Energy                                                               through 1990
Overview,                                        o Reconme'.di        per1od.              2. Review on annual
Electric Power,                                    improvements to                             basis wthn Govt. the
Lignite and Oil                                    existing                                    investmnet budget *a
and Gas Working                                    Planning.                                   project by project
Papers".                                           budgeting and                              allccations ror
monitoring                                 forthcoming year.
systems.
3. No new projects over
o Identifies key                             $50 million to be
investment                                 Included in public               Z
programs within                            investment budget                $ 
estimated                                  without prior                    m-
financial                                  discussion with Bank.
constraints.
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                                                                         F



TUWKEY - ENERGY SVCTOR.ADU4SIMENT LOAN (Cont.)
MMtRY OF STDIS  M INPAES MD                  f     f f IVE  IN SO RY of EMR    St        &I      T ,LOA  (UALI
Sector/
Field of                                                                                     Objectives              Simary of
ZnxaZX±ga.Umi            ITtla         ?I=  of Stu1ed      SUme          BriaLSnuis              for  L,L            Aetign  Progo
(b) Lignite Sector        SRA             Bank      o Reviews planning  o Agree upon key    1. Agree higb priority
Study (Green                                       institutional,       investments in        investments las
Cover).                                            Investment issues   public investment    above).
in the lignite       program for
sector.              lignite.           2. No uneconomic lignite
ufnes as identiffed
o Concludes that                             in the report to be
there are a                                included in the
nw9er of                                   public program.
deficiencies in
sector and
outlInes
recomrend-
ations.
o Identifies
uneconomic
investefnts.
o Identifies a
series of studies
focusing on
pricing polfcy,
operations and
asintenance, etc.
(C) Elee. Planning        SRA             Eank      o Reviews Planning  o Improve planning  1. Govt. prepared
& Investment                                       procedures end       procedures and        revised demand
(Green Cover).                                    identifies           practices.             forecast by
weaknesses.                                end 1986.
O Continue on
o Illustrates          agreed work        2. Govt. prepared
present plannng    program to              revised least-cost
deviates from        develop dynamic       plan at end 1986.
strict least-cost   least-cost
solutions.           program.
3. GoYt. agrees all
o Recommends an      o Continue efforts      new investments
action plan to       to improve            should be                         '
upgrade planning    operational            demonstrated to be              oo i
skills.              planning.             part of least-cost
Plan.
o Identifies key                             °lo
investments.                            4. Further revisions               t 
especially in                              to least-cost plan
improving                                  by end 1987 and
operational                                end 1988.
efficiency.                                respectively
have been agreed.



TURKEY - ENERGY SECTOI ADJUSTMENT LOAN (Cont.)
SUMMRY DE SUES  WORKING PAPERS AND TWNrA  OM                  IN -SUPPORT OF lERGY SECTOR ADJUSTlMET  0LAN IESALl
Sector/
Field of                                                                                     ObJectives               Summary of
Znvestiaatiknn           Itte          Type of Stug.        Source       *f          synapsis     fcr ESAL            Agtios qProosed
(d) Energy demand   Technical        Ministry of    o Detailed energy   o Agree on growth   1. Agree *core
and electricity working paper  Energy, State    demand forecast         in energy demand       investment program as
supply to 2010.                  Planning          by sector to         throush set of         identified in (a)(1)
Organization,    2010.                 realistic demand      above.
and TEK In                             projections.
collaboration  o Electricity                              2. See (c)(3). (4)
with Bank and    system planning   o Identify a least         above.
Intel Atomic      scenarios            cost electricity
Energy Agency.   designed to           expansion program
identify             to ensure optimal
least-cost paths.   investment
program.
(e) Refinery sector SRA and Govt.  Bank/TUP'JS/   o Major refinery    o  Least-Cost             1. Preparation by TUPRAS
study and        policy paper.  Ministry sf        conftguration         long-term             of Petroleum Products
master plan.                     Energy.           imbalances now        refinery master       Supply Options Study.
occurring and         plan.
will be
exacerbated by    o  Improved           2. Revise remuneration
import of natural    operational           fonmula.
gas and changes       efficiency.
in future demand.
o Investments and
policy changes
needed to ensure
that refinery
sector is
balanced by early
1990.
oOoerational
inefficiencies
identified and
recommendations
made to improve
efficiency.
o SRA study to feed
into Govt.                                                                  V
refinery master                                                             a
plan.                                                                       tA
0 0
101



TUCKEY - ENERGY SECTMR AD3USThENT LOAN (Cont.)
SUARwY OF STUDIES. WORKING PAPERS AND TECHNICAL NrtES IN SUPPORt OF ENERGY SECTOR ADJISTNENt LOAN £ESAL,
Sector/
Field of                                                                                 Objectives             Suuary of
Investinatogn          iTt           Tye of Study        Source       Brief b*yghis          for ESAL           Actions Proposed
(f) Elec. master-   Technical      Cons. (EdF)    o Nasterplan for    o  Least cost        1. Implement Izmir
plans for       studies.       to TlK. Bank     urban distribu-       investment at       study.
cities (Izmir.                 financed.        tion. including       distribution
Ankara,                                         lnvestment re-        land.
Istanbul.                                       quirennts,
staffs tech-                          2. Complete Istanbul.
nical stdrs.,etc.                        Ankara.
o Izmir completed
as pilot. Ankara.
Istanbul underway.
4. EFfIUENCY       (a) Systems         Staff                Bank      o SAR for loan to   o Continue Bank      1. Continue covenants
Operations      Appraisal         (DIPPE)      utorade               efforts towards      and agreements under
Assistance      Report                           operational         improving            existing loan.
Project. Staff                                  efficiency in        efficiency in
Appraisal                                       electric power       electric power.
Report.                                         sector.
o Identifies
equiApuent for
operations and
maintenance as
well as technical
assistance.
o Summarizes major
technical
inefficiencies.
o Recomends
performnce
monitoring unit
be established in
TEK.
5-'
00a
o b



TURKEY - ENERGY SECTOR ADSTMENT LOAN (Cont.)
SUNIARY OF STUDIES. WWING PAPERS AND TECHNICAL NOTES IN SlPPORT OF ENERGY SECTOR ADJUISMIENT LAt E,S' 
Sector/
Field of                                                                                  Objectives              Sum=ary of
ZInestUiatLon           T1t           Typx  of Study     Source        Brief Synoasis         for ESAL            A ctions Proposed
(b) Study of        Comprehensive  Consultants    o Comprehensive       o Identify actions  1. To be determined.
lignite sector  technical and  (TUSTAS) to       inventory of         to ensure timely     Study to be sent to
(TKI and MTA). managerial      Govt.             equipment in TKI    delivery of           Bank for review and
study.         Consultants       and its             lignite according    comment.
hired and        condition.           to realistic
financed by                           deaisd schedule.
State Planning o Review production
Organization.    schedules to       o Identify actions
ensure timing of    designed to
demand by power     improve
plants Is           operational
realistic.          efficlency and
reduce costs of
o Review capacity     supply.
utilization.
operational       o Identify
efficiencies and    maintenance and
maintenance         operations
records.            equipment.
O Identify actions                                                           °
to tiprove
efficiency and
meet demand
targets over
ediiu term.
O Review management
and organization
(TEI ,  TA) of
sector.
o Identify
equipment needs.
0 0
'0



TURKFv - NEROY SECTOR MUMT          LOU  (Cont.)
SIMGARY OF STlUIES. IDRKING PAPERS MID TECNNICAL KOTES IN SUPPOrT DF ENERCY SECTOR ADJUSTNEUT LOAN IESAL)
Sector/
Field of                                                                                  Objectives              Sumary of
InyStniat.inn           ntis          Type of Studx      SmeLL£        Bc1ef SxnMosis         for ESAL .iActions Pranosed
(c) Electricity     Technical      Consultants    o Analyses existing o Identify level    l. Govt. agrees with
Pricing Study   study with      (EdF, France)    tariffs in           and structure of     principle of pricing
executive      to TEK.  Bank    Turkey.              LRHC.                 at LRC.
suasry on      financed.
pricing policy                o Recomwends new    o Identify            2. Phased program of
tariffs based on    complementary         tariffs to i1prove
LRKC.               actions to ensure    structure.
LOC pricing
o Provides an         policy can be      3. Investment progra
Implementation      implemented.          for complementary
schedule for                              metering, etc.
reaching LREC
over a S-year
period including
pricing chtnges,
metering, etc.
(d) Demand mwt. &   Technical rpt. Consultants    o Identifies          o Action plan to    1. To be determined.
conservation                    (Gopa.           actions to           implement a          Study to be sent to
study.                         Gerany) to        improve load         demand management    Bank for review and                co
TEK. Sank        analyses.            program for the      comment.                           1'
financed.                             electric power
o Identifies          subsector.
actions to
Improve load
curves and save
energy and
capital.
o Integrates
studies of
pricing and
non-pricing
effects on
demand.
o Trains TEK's
staff.
(e) National Water  Technical rpt. Consultant to  o Identifies         o Hydro inventory   1. Complete hydro inventory by
Resource                       HENR. Sank        weaknesses in        to ensure that       December 188,.
Planning.                      financed.         hydro resource      most economic
analysis and in     sxches are taken 2. Complete Valor Asua program
hydro planning      up sequentially.      (hydro optimization program)   0
generally.                                by December 1987.               co
0 0
%o



TURKEY - EFERGY SECTUR AUSTMffENT LOAN (Cont.)
SU#HARY OF STUDIES, WORKING PAPERS MD TECH"ICAL  OTES IN SUPPORT OF ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSIEETM LOWN (QU ESA
Sector/
Field of                                                                                  Objectives                 S         of
lnvestication           Title         TMo  of Studx      Source        Brief SwwnsPis         for Du^                utio,s PrcRo5e
o Establishes       o Improved hydro    3. Integrate results into least
system for          operational           cost program.
developing a        planning.
hydro Inventory
with detailed
priorities for
invesbaent.
o OutlInes actions
for improved
hydro operations
in mixed theruml/
hydro system.
o Identifies
sequene of                                                                        cD
programs to
improve hydro
planning and
operations.
EPIVIROSXt        l(a) Working paPers Working paper Bank (PPDES)   o Reviews activi-   o Policy discus-    1. Improve emission oiitoring
on envi roment.                                  ties underway        sions with           in TEK.
and/or planned      Government.
to improve                             2. Integrate enviromntal planning
enviroment.       o Identifies            in developMent plans.
eiimm nt.
o Focuses prisar-     studies and        3. undertake air quality study in
ily on air          training.             tstanbul:  pre and post gas
quality.                                  penetration.
o Outlines TA,
studies. train-
ing. etc.
(b) Working paper  Working paper  Bank (DWPE)   o Reviews activi-   Assess adequacy         o  Review adequacy of resettlent
on resettlement                                  ties and          of resettlement         plans on large hydro projects
policies on       plans, procedures       during annual public investment
resettlement.     and policies.           review.
O Focuses an                                                                       =
Sank Financed                                                                 oe =
projects.
3262P
April 1987



- 83 -
Annex 11
TURKEY
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Date of first presentation to Bank                         January, 1986
(b)  Appraisal Mission                                         February, 1987
(c)  Completion of Negotiations                                May, 1987
(d)  Planned Date of Effectiveness                             August, 1987
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Disbursement of the second tranche of US$100 million is dependent upon
satisfactory progress in the:
(a)   preparation of the independent financial audit of TEK (para. 54);
(b)   the strengthening of TEK's Board of Directors (para. 55);
(c)   implementation of the work program of the regulatory body
(para. 61);
(d)   preparation of the medium to long term subsector plans for natural
gas (para. 66), refineries (para. 67) and electric power (para. 71);
(e)   composition and size of the public investment program for energy
(para. 77);
(f)   implementation of the new refinery remuneration formula (para. 83);
(g)   implementation of the new tariff structure (para. 87); and
(h)   implementation of the energy conservation program (para. 93).



,                                                                    ~~~~~~~    ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~tr,ebolu  >4SINOP
KopicuEDIRNE ,I,Ki8+i                           
) 30bOfrgi W~TA8STo>rt                                                                                                                      Attinaa
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nu4   K  Or e                                                     ¢Xrw        KASTAMONUO             oy,o
G-REECE               r Tcirdag'                               _)1,b t Ereg6hrrtrJw oes
f eXcon    'T EKIkDAG \>, 4e17r lp
>          \  ~~~~1TeANBI   MZIT                                                                 Q
/   - -SorlEy:   @}         <          >4|1  %\ °  ADAPAZARI                           °Gerede      Cenrrr Ortv                      Mortzifon
f~~~~~~-                                                                  ADPZR               BOL                              0 .' oANK ItRU
>  e       C~~aroy                  '     @\                ;     \      e        rt,                                    I               J/e'rw-er
/E      vocilf      EAIESRerjrreR(/urmlo l                                                                                         s/
°irNAKL                                                                              caey  Sr"hzr   foolttJ               t        rRy
>   oAywolicsu@)eflre 4nts   Tvbs24 t) d0 KUTAyAX                                  /Ge&WDpo(
Brocn,s,,m,                                         0rr/                                                               
-   *,,  .CerRrne ~~~0*'KjdTuAHYA\i .t 
Bergomci      NChoher o/09
* ~ ~~'Ahsi  _Knnr                                     UDUref^rri                                                              Uuk
' tSz,seften ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kochd /or
e;me       I'nio                           AdiOzoKoe l                ~          >/Xr|9                                                      Poot
f -                                                       Egrodir                    O*'  NYA                   _DE.en-. Movo
. .   '_ q,,,           . wOFetlfe                                                         Enseno; lRGeane                 ,      ,
l~~ ~   ~~~               ~~~~~ ,m de .                                                                                       Ergi           Pzn
Ko VOtCO>zKs    .SRle Z  w  a lenpeae 
_' 7kyeliAY,                    TtWoi dn'6sa    x
D  . .  .arroabn  0r t n
arNAY .ME886xl    Let f6ow d 1  rpy.onh
PDaGfc£T o             P                                    Y       M~ 1anofvfgat l3u
.  \                   ot aw tetntotY or Y                                                                O    20   40   f30  al~~~~= Geen d
_,-r   <  rStAMt     1'ethiremettcetoo                                               -~
>  SOSAY{RAA8N \ IRt^0 t  tRAN ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~Alcny                                  m1ey"Karakrep Kl_OETRf3s
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ T(EP's _*.  E
'_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fnk _l
Anom,



-. f . . .. . , . - 18~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fRD 20412
,- tSINOP
U.  S.  S.  R.
Alitnkaya ED                                                                                     ,      at
SAMSUN0                                                                    -                                               e' 
.*                                                   T- tRABZON    4RIZEc     Tcdvm_             Gale0         m
e o2       vcsv   ti                   %DU  *@GIRESUN                                /Aze'       l.ARS-
Merzdon    *                       OorenXer,                          ;                Ol ~~~~~~~~010tu 
0AMASYA             Nikiar                       OegOiikI                                             0-.cc . MU$HANE                                      40
,*CORUM         -     *C  A /man       .         oKoyulhr    k kayburr imHorson
TOKAT                                                                                                        &RI kitickeye  .
Zaro:                                               Ak 0ERZURUM                                             r              N
0oroO            Refahiye  ,ERZINCAN   . 9iTercon                                                                  bli  **
Kong~~f                                                      ->_           t/re;         ,      -? IA
J1- ~   ~         ~
.¢ _vrr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ers Hkrhb4na                                                                             k,x43A 
R  0Bogazlyanins,~~~~~~~,,                                                -~~                      -,                )~IRAN
' 'Xunt   'W':.D  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '4
,ozI,yn4s,zo ,,Tavn                                                                                                                nr
orsunti   r   <\/t siz kes0err-ik                                                                                         T U R tc E Y
K (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N~~~~~~A
--)  YSEIiluk \.  .                               .                                               ENERGY   SECTOR
Itorgit   15bznderun°  *                                          ~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED EX1iti$iN              EUTUiE  OPeRTION
-    POPUI ATION & MAIN INDUSTRIAL CENTERS                                                                       TemlPwrPat
.HIATAY     OReyhanli-                                    ~~~ ~  ~~2 5 Million       )9   HoT Coa; hetlPorrbn
O&/r @z   ,t'                                                                        ,/    I. igG, nite Mines        0         *       under 1000 MW
Somonido~   4.              f15~\ ~--- --       Million                         'xV        t      a' er Amillion tons/yr   @                avoer 1000 MW
dp,oyIodag iX                                                                      2       under 4nilhaln tons/yr                  llydra Power Plants
.    ~         ~                   f   *; _       - - - - - - - - - - ---500,0.00               Area ol GqsReserves      C2                under 1000 MW
f- -:23°Q°ooo  Areaz ol 01l Reserves                                                                     over 1000 MW
kQ Refineries
-    ~Product P;pellne5
-Cru de Olil Ptpel tne5
* Naiional Capital
o3   Provincial Ca0,ials                              Gas Pipelines
4-0  00   80  100        .                                   - Rivers                                                            Moaor Energy Resources ot lurktey
f- ^M+   <70% of hydra. bIO  o1 li9mte. 100% oS oill
3p                                             -*-International Boundaries               40.
MAY 1987



