FILE COPY
Report No. 1334-SO
Appraisal of a Third Education Project
in the Somali Democratic Republic
July 26, 1977
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



EQUIVALENTS
CURRENCY
Somali Shilling                =          So.Sh.
African Development Fund
Units of Account             =          FUA
US$1                           =          So.Sh. 6.295
So.Sh.l                                  US$0.159
FUAI                                      Value of 0.889 gr7m
of monetary gold
MEASURES
1 Meter (m)                    =          3.28 Feet
1 Square Meter (m2)            =          10.76 Square Feet
GOVERNMENT OF THE SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
1/ Equivalent to about US$1.111 as of July 1976.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .......................................  i - iv
I. INTRODUCTION     ............................................   1
II. DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCE NEEDS ....................       2
III. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR  .......................      4
Government Policy and Programs .......................       4
Evaluation of the Sector ...................                 7
Financing Education Development ...............              9
IV. THE PROJECT .............................................   11
Objectives         ...........................................    11
Project  Items   .............. ............ ..........................  12
Curriculum Development Center .....     .................    12
Textbook Printing ..................................    12
Regional Adult Education and Training Centers   ......   13
National Trade Testing and Training Center    .........   14
Livestock and Forestry School ......................   15
Health Personnel Training Institute,
Mogadiscio School of Nursing and
Kismayo School of Nursing ........................   15
Survey of Administration and Management
Training Needs ......      ...........................    16
V. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCIAL PLAN, IMPLEMENTATION,
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ............................   17
Cost Estimates .......     ..............................    17
Financial Plan .     .     ...........21.----..............    21
Implementation ......             ...........   - ............    21
Procurement .   .............   ............  . .23
Disbursement .................-..  ...... .  ........    24
This report is based on the findings of a July 1976 mis.-ion to Somalia com-
posed of S.M. Asher (education planner and mission leader), S.R. Santos (agri-
cultural educator), R. Welter (architect), C. Gilpin (nonformal educator) and
T. Tiglao (health educator) of the Bank, and A. Richter (printing materials
specialist), consultant to the Bank.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ........................... . ... .   25
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ......    ...............    26
APPENDICES
I.   The Education and Training System
II.   The National Literacy Campaign
III.   Health Training
IV.   IDA-Assisted Education Projects
Completed and in Execution
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Projection of Manpower Need and Supply, 1977-86:
Animal Husbandry, Forestry and Health
3.   Actual and Projected Primary School Enrollment,
1970/71 - 1985/86
4.   Projection of Primary School Enrollment and Teacher
Requirement and Supply, 1975/76 - 1985/86
5.   Actual and Projected Secondary School Enrollment
1970/71 - 1985/86
6.   Recurrent Expenditure of Ministry of Education and
Ministry of Culture and Higher Education
7.   Technical Assistance Program
8.   Summary of Estimated Project Costs
9.   Estimated Cost By Category of Expenditure
10.   Implementation and Expenditure Schedule
11.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
1.   Ministry of Education Organization, 1976            World Bank 16024
2.   Education Pyramid, 1975/76                          World Bank 16025
3.   Structure of the Educational System, 1976           World Bank 16487
4.   Possible Opportunities for Primary School
Leavers, 1977                                     World Bank 16488
5.   Educational and Training Institutions by
Ministry, 1976                                    World Bank 16489
MAP       Somali Democratic Republic                           IBRD 12461
Key to Map



SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
BASIC DATA (est.)
1975-76
General
Area                                                                   637,000 km2
Population                                                             3.2 million
Annual Growth Rate                                                     2.5%
Education
Enrollment in primary schools (grades 1-6)                             219,500
- as a percentage of 7-12 years age group                                  34%
Enrollment in general secondary schools (grades 7-10)                    7,300
- as a percentage of 13-16 years age group                                  3%
Enrollment in technical secondary schools (grades 7-10)                  1,000
Enrollment in the National University                                    2,200
Recurrent expenditure of the Ministry of Education
and the Ministry of Culture and Higher Education              So.Shs. 74 million
- as a percentage of the Central Government
recurrent expenditure (1975)                                         12.6%
Capital expenditure of the Ministry of Education
and the Ministry of Culture and Higher Education              So.Shs. 27 million
- as a percentage of the total public capital
expenditure (1975)                                                   7.9%






GLOSSARY
ADF              -      African Development Fund
CDC              -      Curriculum Development Center
EEC              -      European Economic Communities
HPTI             -      Health Personnel Training Institute
KSN              -       Kismayo School of Nursing
LFS              -      Livestock and Forestry School
MOE              -      Ministry of Education
MCHE             -       Ministry of Culture and Higher Education
MSN              -       Mogadiscio School of Nursing
NABM             -       National Agency for Building Materials
NAEC             -       National Adult Education Center
NTTTC            -       National Trade Testing and Training Center
RAETC            -       Regional Adult Education and Training Center
SIDAM            -       Somali Institute of Development Administration
and Management
SBS              -      Somali Broadcasting Service
SPA              -       State Printing Agency
SRC              -       Supreme Revolutionary Council
SRSP             -       Somali Revolutionary Socialist Party
UAE              -       United Arab Emirates






SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a third education project in Somalia for
which IDA assistance of US$8.0 million equivalent is proposed. The first
project (Credit 247-SO, signed in 1971) which was completed in September
1976, assisted secondary and technical education, and teacher and agri-
cultural training. The second project (Credit 511-SO, signed in 1974) is
assisting secondary education, teacher and fishery training and a special
training program for the nomads. Project implementation is on schedule.
ii.       The Somalia's education policy has been set up to reflect the national
development goals - greater self-reliance, especially in agriculture, as part
of a program of "scientific socialism" with emphasis on egalitarianism and
social justice. The policy calls for the people, young and old, to receive
relevant basic education to effectively participate in social, economic and
political processes. It also calls for the education sector to train manpower
for the country's principal development sectors - agriculture and livestock.
In the furtherance of these objectives, austerity and self-help measures are
strongly encouraged by the Government.
iii.      Since 1972 when the Government adopted the Latin script for the
Somali language, the achievements in the expansion of education have been
outstanding. The percentage of the age-group population enrolled in primary
schools grew from 13% in 1973 to 34% in 1975. Among the settled population
the percentage is as high as 60%. The adult literacy rate, according to
Government estimates, increased from a mere 5% in 1973 to more than 50%
after the 1973-75 mass literacy campaign. These achievements have been
possible because of bold Government decisions as to the language of instruc-
tion, the increase in the entry age to primary schools, the shortened primary
education course, the employment of teachers without formal qualifications,
and the mobilization of the people for school construction.
iv.       Major efforts in high- and middle-level manpower training are being
made in the expansion and improvement of the National University and of tech-
nical secondary schools. The Government receives assistance from the European
Economic Communities (EEC) and Italy for the University, from the People's
Republic of Korea in the establishment of a new Polytechnic, and from Arab
countries, in particular, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), in the development
of general secondary and vocational schools.
v.        Despite recent noticeable achievements, the sector still has weak-
nesses especially because quantitative expansion has been carried out at the
expense of education quality. The Government is aware that various measures
are urgently required to improve teacher quality, the provision of teaching
aids and education administration. It is also aware that there are areas



- ii -
where outputs of training institutions are likely to fall much short of
manpower needs. In particular, specialized training in agriculture, animal
husbandry, forestry, simple rural skills and public health needs to be
expanded to meet the required manpower for the rural development programs.
vi.       In view of the unprecedented expansion of the sector, increased
attention needs to be paid to the evaluation of recent education reforms
and existing training programs. Also necessary are the development of the
recently introduced trade testing system and a survey of training needs for
administrative, managerial and clerical workers to develop appropriate train-
ing programs to provide personnel required by the Government and parastatal
enterprises.
vii.      The proposed project would support Somalia's education policy and
is designed to relieve the weaknesses described above. Specifically it aims
at (a) improving education quality through curriculum development, teacher
upgrading and teaching/learning materials production; (b) promoting basic
education and skill training among youths and adults; (c) providing special-
ized manpower training in animal husbandry, forestry and paramedical services;
and (d) developing the system of trade testing and skilled workers' upgrading.
viii.     The project would consist of:  (a) a new Curriculum Development
Center (CDC); (b) extension to the State Printing Agency (SPA); (c) seven
new Regional Adult Education and Training Centers (RAETCs); (d) equipment
for the National Trade Testing and Training Center (NTTTC); (e) a new Live-
stock and Forestry School (LFS); (f) a new Health Personnel Training Insti-
tute (HPTI); (g) renovations to the Mogadiscio School of Nursing (MSN); (h)
a new school of nursing in Kismayo (KSN); and (i) the cost of specialist
services and fellowships for curriculum development and teaching material
production, rural skill training, a survey of administrative and managerial
training needs, and project administration. The project institutions would
have a total of 1,730 student places, of which 1,320 would be new.
ix.       The Curriculum Development Division of the Ministry of Education
(MOE) not only evaluates and revises curricula and syllabi for general,
technical and teacher education but is also responsible for the development
and production of teaching aids and materials for general and science educa-
tion. In addition, the Division assists the training of teachers. Despite
these important functions, it is understaffed and lacks adequate physical
facilities and equipment to meet the pressing needs for its services. The
proposed project would help the Government establish an expanded Curriculum
Development Center (CDC) with technical assistance comprising 4 man-years of
specialist services and 16 man-years of fellowships.
x.        An expanded and improved CDC would prepare and test manuscripts
for teaching and learning materials. For 1976/77 the State Printing Agency
can produce about 1.4 million textbooks which meets about 60% of the MOE's
need in the rapidly expanding school system and in nonformal education programs.
The proposed project would expand the SPA by providing equipment and build-
ings, three man-years of technical assistance for operation and maintenance



- iii -
of the equipment, and MOE's incremental operating expenses - including paper
supplies - for the first three years of the expanded operations. Printing
facilities would be used by both MOE and the Ministry of Culture and Higher
Education (MCHE).
xi.       The proposed seven Regional Adult Education and Training Centers
would strengthen the administrative structure of nonformal education programs
and offer a broadened basic adult education course including skill training.
The National Adult Education Center (NAEC) in Mogadiscio cannot provide
adequate supervision and support for the rapidly expanding programs in order
to reinforce the achievements of the 1973-75 mass literacy campaign. The
proposed RAETCs would act as regional support and resource centers. They
would also promote the ongoing radio education program to reach the dispersed
rural population. One man-year of specialist services would be provided to
help develop village technology as part of the adult education program.
xii.      The Livestock and Forestry School would train manpower required for
the introduction of modern animal production techniques and for the improve-
ment of the ongoing programs in reforestation and water shed development.
At present there is no institution in Somalia to train personnel for these
activities. The LFS would have a capacity of 360 students on a four-year
post-primary course and be located near the existing Agricultural Secondary
School and College of Agriculture of the University thus facilitating the
sharing of staff, equipment and facilities. A satisfactory curriculum has
been prepared with FAO assistance. Instructors of animal husbandry would
be recruited from among University graduates. Forestry instructors would not
be locally available. The project would therefore provide three fellowships
of two man-years each for training abroad.
xiii.     A new Health Personnel Training Institute is urgently needed as
the existing Institute will be demolished due to the expansion of the Port
Mogadiscio. The HPTI is the country's only institution which trains such
paramedical personnel as sanitarians, laboratory technicians, x-ray tech-
nicians, pharmacist assistants, health inspectors and nurses. A 200-place
HPTI would be located within the compound of the Mogadiscio School of Nursing
(MSN), which would be renovated under the proposed project; staff and facili-
ties would be shared. The HPTI is adequately staffed with Somali instructors
who are assisted by three WHO health education specialists. A new school
of nursing in Kismayo (KSN) would not only meet the increasing need for
trained nurses, but serve specifically the southern region where the popu-
lation and the economy based on agro-industry are rapidly expanding, but
there is no health training institution.
xiv.      The proposed project would also support the development of trade
testing and a survey of training needs for administrative and managerial
workers with the provision of two man-years and one man-year of specialist
services to the former and to the latter respectively. The Ministry of
Labor and Sports is responsible for trade testing and the Somali Institute of
Development Administration and Management (SIDAM) would undertake the survey.
Both would help the Government establish training programs for clerical,
trade, administrative and managerial workers.



- iv -
xv.       The Project Unit in the Ministry of Education (MOE) with its School
Design Unit, established under the first IDA education project, would be
strengthened to execute the larger volume of work, The Project Unit would
employ an additional accountant and the School Design Unit an additional
architect.
xvi.      Contracts for civil works, equipment, furniture, and printing mate-
rials would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank Group's Guidelines for Procurement, except for
(a) locally procured construction materials for seven RAETCs, and (b) con-
tracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each for locally procured
furniture, equipment, and (c) local transportation services. Contracts for
the exceptions above would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the
Association. The aggregate value of these contracts is likely to be about
US$350,000 equivalent. Contracts for imported building materials would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding following the Bank
Group's Guidelines for Procurement by the National Agency for Building Materials
(NABM). Standardized sketch designs, draft tender documents and master lists
of furniture, equipment and paper, indicating proposed grouping for tender,
would be reviewed by the Association. Items would be grouped to the extent
practicable to encourage competitive bidding and to permit bulk procurement.
Review of tender Pvaluation documents by the Association prior to award would
be required for contracts for civil works and above US$50,000 equivalent for
construction materials, equipment, furniture, and local transportation services.
Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a preference
of 15% or the existing rate of import duties, whichever is lower, over the
c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers. Qualified domestic civil works
contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of 7-1/2% over bid prices
of competing foreign contractors.
xvii.     The total project cost is estimated at US$11.7 million equivalent,
corresponding to US$11.3 million net of taxes, with a foreign exchange com-
ponent of US$8.7 million equivalent or 74% of the total project cost. This
high percentage is the result of the project emphasis on the provision of
equipment, printing materials and technical assistance, and of the high
cost of imported materials in comparison to the cost of labor and locally
available construction materials. The proposed project would be cofinanced with
the African Development Fund (ADF). The ADF would provide FUA 1.5 million
(about US$1.7 million equivalent) to finance printing facilities and technical
assistance related to the textbook printing item. The combined IDA and
ADF assistance of US$9.7 million would account for 83% of the total project
cost. The proposed IDA Credit of US$8.0 million would account for 69% of
total project costs, or 71% of costs net of taxes and duties. The project
would be implemented in six years.
xviii.    The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit
of US$8.0 million equivalent to the Somali Democratic Republic.



SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Somalia received two IDA credits for education in 1971 and 1974
for the amounts of US$3.3 million and US$8.0 million respectively. The
first project (247-SO) was satisfactorily completed in September 1976 with
a total cost of US$4.5 million equivalent. It assisted in the improvement
of teacher, secondary and technical education, agricultural extension work,
and the establishment of a Project Unit and a School Design Unit. The
second project (511-SO) also provides assistance to teacher and secondary
education as well as fishery training and to a special education program
for nomads; implementation is on schedule (Appendix IV).
1.02      A completion report was prepared to evaluate the first project.
The lessons of its experience have been taken into account in designing the
proposed project. For instance, the civil works component has been kept
comparatively small and emphasis has been kept on the utilization of force
account and self-help methods. Also, special provisions have been made to
ensure the timely implementation of the technical assistance component as
well as the strengthening of the Project and School Design Units.
1.03      In November 1975 a Bank mission identified priority investment needs
in consultation with the Government. In January 1976 the Government requested
Bank Group financing for a third education project largely in line with the
investment needs identified by the November mission. A Unesco mission helped
the Government prepare the project in May 1976.
1.04      The project was appraised in July 1976 by a mission composed of
S.M. Asher (education planner and mission leader), S.R. Santos (agricultural
educator), R. Welter (architect), C. Gilpin (nonformal educator) and T. Tiglao
(health educator) of the Bank, and A. Richter (printing materials specialist),
consultant to the Bank. During appraisal the project proposals were revised,
in agreement with the Government, to reflect further analysis of the prior-
ities within the sector and within each component. The proposed project is
estimated to cost US$11.7 million equivalent including taxes of US$0.4 mil-
lion equivalent, of which the foreign exchange component is US$8.7 million
equivalent. The project would be cofinanced with the African Development Fund
(ADF), which would provide FUA1.5 million (about US$1.7 million equivalent).
The proposed IDA Credit of US$8.0 million would account for 69% of total
project costs, or 71% of costs net of taxes and duties.



-2-
II. DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCE NEEDS
2.01      Background.  Somalia became independent in July 1960 from the former
Italian Trust Territory of Somalia in the South and the former British Protec-
torate of Somaliland in the North. After a decade of parliamentary rule, a
new political system was established in October 1969. The Supreme Revolutionary
Council (SRC) was the highest decision-making body until July 1976, when the
Congress of the new Somali Revolutionary Socialist Party (SRSP) replaced the
SRC. Under the present political structure there are three main bodies: a
five-man supervisory and policy-making Politburo including the President who
is also the Secretary General of the Party; a 74-member Central Committee with
17 bureaus, each representing a social or economic sector, with major functions
in decision-making; and an executive body of the Cabinet of Ministers.
2.02      With a per capita income estimated at US$100 (Annex 1), Somalia is
one of the least developed countries in Africa. The population, estimated at
3.2 million, are a homogeneous ethnic and linguistic group of predominantly
Hamitic stock. About two-thirds are nomadic and subsist on primitive agri-
culture and livestock grazing. Livestock is reported to number 15-20 million.
The first population and livestock census was conducted in February 1975
and, when its results become available, will provide the first reliable
basic statistics.
2.03      Geographically, Somalia extends over an area of 637,000 km  along
the Indian Ocean and the Gulf of Aden. Its principal assets are the long sea
coastline, land and livestock. More than a half of the land area is suitable
for livestock production. About 13% of the land area is suitable for cultiva-
tion, but no more than a half is used. Improved pasture management, animal
health and water supply can greatly increase Somalia's agricultural and live-
stock potential.
2.04      The 1974-78 Developmtent Plan allocated the largest share (34%) of
the planned expenditure (So. Shs. 3.9 billion) to the development of agricul-
ture and livestock. About 80% of export earnings comes from livestock and
bananas. But the severe drought of 1973-74 disrupted the economy. Animal
husbandry and agriculture suffered great losses. About 270,000 nomads sought
refuge in drought relief camps in the arid rangelands of the North. In 1975 an
estimated 125,000 nomads were settled in communities in the agricultural and
fishing areas. Because of the drought, Government development priorities were
rapidly shifted towards a massive mobilization of resources for the rehabilita-
tion program. But the impact of the natural disaster has not been totally
adverse since it has focused concern on agricultural development and range
conservation, and has made the people aware of the importance of health
services as well as of basic literacy and numeracy.
2.05      Development Objectives.  The long-term objective of the Government
is to become more self-reliant as part of a program of "scientific socialism"
emphasizing egalitarianism and social justice. In particular, Somalia plans
to be self-sufficient in agricultural products through an expansion of the
area under cultivation and the development of irrigation. The Government



expects that by 1990 pure nomads would represent a minority of the popula-
tion while the majority of grazers would be semi-nomadic, i.e., they would
have stable homes but move 50-100 miles for grazing and water under systems
of regulated land and water rights. The livestock population would have
increased by 20-30%, but more important, mortality rates would have declined
and offtake rates increased.
2.06      As a measure to encourage the sedentary system of production, the
Government has set up 15 animal stock and demonstration farms where animal
raisers can obtain breeding stock and services, and can observe modern
techniques of animal production. An animal feed processing plant has been
established which utilizes plant and animal by-products as feed components.
Within the next 10 years the Government plans to double the number of live-
stock farms in the country, to establish another feed processing plant and
to organize a network of livestock cooperatives.
2.07      Adequate water supply is a key to increased agricultural production.
But due to the indiscriminate cutting of trees, large areas of forest and land
are deteriorating. The severe erosion during the rainy season causes heavy
siltation in the rivers. During the dry season, soil moisture is rapidly lost
due to the absence of adequate water sheds - trees and vegetation. Therefore,
the Government plans to give increased emphasis to forestry development.
2.08      Improved health care is an important objective of the Development
Plan. The Plan aims to provide health service with an emphasis on preventive
care oriented toward the rural population. Somalia, like other developing
countries, suffers from a high prevalence of preventive communicable diseases,
e.g., malaria, bilharzia. To cope with the situation, the Government is
developing a health delivery system consisting of 16 regional health offices,
84 district health offices and 165 dispensaries at the village level. The
system is to provide primary health care at the village level, referring
more complicated cases to the district level and cases requiring a specialist
to the regional health office (Appendix III).
2.09      Manpower Needs for Development.  The estimated total population of
3.2 million is growing at 2.5% p.a.  Of the population, 40% are in the labor
force, of which some 80% are engaged in agriculture and animal husbandry.
Based on data from the 1971 manpower survey, wage employment today accounts
for roughly 13% of the labor force.  Employment and manpower data will be
updated when the results of the 1975 manpower survey and the 1976 employment
study, both conducted with ILO assistance, become available. While the
projection of the long-term high- and middle-level manpower needs is tentative
at present, some general and specific manpower implications emerge from the
development objectives and programs Somalia has established.
2.10      It is apparent from the ongoing and planned investment programs
that Somalia will need personnel trained in such specialized areas as animal
husbandry, forestry and health. At present there is no school to produce
middle-level manpower trained in animal production and forestry. To imple-
ment the livestock and forestry programs (paras. 2.06-2.07), the Government



-4-
requires during the next decade 550 animal production technicians in addi-
tion to 180 university graduates, and 270 forest rangers (Annex 2). The
planned expansion of the health services for the -ext 10 years requires 800
doctors, 2,000 nurses, 330 sanitarians, 350 laboratory technicians, 150
pharmacy assistants, 70 anesthetist assistants and 50 x-ray technicians. It
is estimated that there are now 135 qualified Somali doctors and 92 expatriates.
There are about 750 nurses, of whom 450 are trained; 70% of them are concen-
trated in the Mogadiscio and Hfargeisa areas. The existing health personnel in
other categories also meets only 20-30% of the required stock in 1986
(Appendix III).
2.11      Another area in need of attention is that of managers and account-
ants. A recent study of the parastatal sector conducted by Bank staff indi-
cates that improved management and accounting techniques are a prerequisite
for the development of the public enterprises established over the last few
years. Many expatriates provided under technical assistance agreements with
bilateral and multilateral agencies serve in advisory positions in the para-
statal corporations. It seems clear that a need exists for qualitative
improvement and for increased effectiveness of the available in-service
training institutions. However, training needs are yet to be fully iden-
tified and a survey is required to chart a program of action for appropriate
development of public administration and management training.
2.12      Finally the long-ternm objectives of Somalia (para. 2.05) require
expansion and improvement of basic education for youths and adults. The
Government's aim to encourage a sedentary system of agricultural production
and reduce nomadism heightens the need for the expansion of basic education
facilities. At the same time, the Government's emphasis on mass participation
in development programs increases the urgency of providing adult education,
parallel to primary education.
III. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
Government Policy and Programs
3.01      Somalia's education and training sector is described in Appendix I
and basic data are given in Annexes 3-5 and Charts 1-5.  The educational
policy is set up in accordance with Somalia's basic development goals (para.
2.05). The Government intends to provide relevant basic education-opportu-
nities to all, young and old, and to control post-primary education in re-
sponse to manpower needs. In the furtherance of these objectives the Govern-
ment calls for austerity and a self-help spirit among the people. The 1974-
78 Five-Year Development Plan incorporates these objectives.
3.02      Before the 1969 revoLution, priority was accorded to secondary
education for a selected minority. Since then priority has shifted to pri-
mary and adult education to build a society in which the masses can effec-
tively participate in social and economic activities as well as in the poli-
tical process. This shift in priority was made in 1975 when compulsory free



- 5 -
primary education was introduced as a target for the immediate future.l/ In
addition, the Government has drastically changed the structure of education
by increasing the age of entry from six to seven years to primary school and
reducing the primary education course from eight to six years whiLa maintain-
ing a secondary education course of four years; as a result, general educa-
tion in Somalia has now a duration of only ten years as compared with 12-13
years in most other countries. Due to the deliberate Government effort
to expand primary education, coupled with the settlement of 125,000 nomads
(para. 2.04), in 1975 the primary school intake into grade one increased
five-fold over the previous year while the original plan was to increase
intake by only 10% p.a. In absolute terms, the total primary school enroll-
ment exploded from 96,900 in 1973 2/ to 219,500 in 1975. Based upon sample
population data, the primary school enrollment ratio rose to 34% 3/ of the
7-12 age group in 1975 (the new six-year course) from 13% of the 6-13 age
group in 1973 (the old eight-year course).
3.03      The impact of the sudden and rapid expansion of primary education
on the sector as a whole is great. For the next ten years, the Govern-
ment will have to produce an average of 1,600 new primary school teachers
annually (Annex 4). an output about eight times greater than that of the
recent past. To cope with this need, the Government set top priority on the
establishment of a new primary teacher training school financed under the
second IDA educatioon project. The school is in operation now. Furthermore,
the Government has shortened the primary teacher training program from the
regular two-year course to a one-year accelerated program and continues to
rely on national service volunteers - secondary school graduates serving one
year as teachers before they take up employment or proceed to higher education.
Also, an average of 650 classrooms will have to be built annually, in addition
to the 500 classrooms built in 1976 alone for the six settlements for former
nomads (para. 2.04). At the end of the 1980/81 school year, some 100,000
students are expected to complete primary school, as compared to 7,000 in
1976 (Annex 3).
3.04      The large increase of primary school leavers has serious impli-
cations for secondary education. In recent years, the expansion of post-
primary education has been controlled and general secondary school enroll-
ment has remained at the level of about 10,000, which is by and large con-
sistent with the needs of the monetary sector of the economy as indicated
by the 1974-78 Development Plan. But, the large number of primary school
leavers will eventually press for places in secondary schools greater than
those indicated by the Plan. Consequently, the Government intends to carry
1/   After the 1978/79 school year, the Government plans to enroll 100%
of the seven-year olds in settled areas and from 1980/81, 20% of
seven-year old nomads.
2/   In 1974 schools were closed due to the national literacy campaign in
which students participated as teachers (Appendix II).
3/   The primary school enrollment ratio among the settled population is
as high as 60%.



- 6 -
out a reassessment of its policy for secondary education development. Pre-
liminary projections of secondary intake by the Ministry of Education (MOE)
until 1980/81, however, still show the continuation of the present high
transition rate of 60% from primary to secondary education (Annex 5). If
these projections are translated into plans and programs, some 23,000 would
graduate from secondary schools in 1984 as compared to the present 2,000.
This rapid expansion is likely to result in outputs exceeding the labor
market absorptive capacity. It is expected that the Government will further
review this issue when the reports of the 1975 manpower survey and the 1976
study on employment become available (para. 2.09). In addition, an inter-
ministerial committee has been established to study the matter and develop
policy recommendations, and a basic sector survey was carried out in May
1977 under the Bank-Unesco Cooperative Program with the objective of providing
advice on long-term developments and an input into the preparation of the next
Development Plan. Its findings will be available towards the end of this year.
3.05      The Government's efforts to spread basic education to the masses
encompass not only the youth and the formal delivery system but also adults
and nonformal education programs. In 1972 the Government adopted the Latin
script for Somali and made Somali the official language of the country.
This decision triggered a massive drive for adult literacy (Appendix II).
Dissemination of the Somali script was successfully carried out by mobilizing
the population through inter-ministerial and inter-sectoral committees at
various levels of Government. During the 1974-75 mass education and health
campaign, over one million people were enrolled in literacy classes. Equally
important to such practical results as the introduction of the Somali script
and medical vaccination are the attitudinal changes and literacy skills. The
Government is giving top priority to maintaining and reinforcing what has been
achieved during the campaign.
3.06      Within the MOE a Department of Nonformal Education has been set
up with responsibility for all adult and nonformal education. The National
Adult Education Center (NAEC) and the National Women's Education Center
are responsible for implementing the programs designed by the Department.
Some 1,500 learning groups have been created for a three-year basic educa-
tion program for the adult population. For the 50,000 adult nomads who were
settled in 1975, the Government has made adult education compulsory. Three
of the ten nomadic training centers being established under the second IDA
education project are located in the settlement areas to cater to these
adults.
3.07      In view of the dispersed population of Somalia, the Government
considers the use of radio as an important tool in supporting and strength-
ening adult education. The NAEC became responsible in May 1976 for the
preparation of radio programs in support of adult education in cooperation
with the Somali Broadcasting Service (SBS). With two 75 kw transmitters
recently installed 1/, the SBS has the capacity to broadcast throughout
Somalia.
1/   In addition, there are two '50 kw, one 10 kw and two 5 kw transmitters
in the country.



- 7 -
3.08      The Government program to improve the quality of education at
the time of rapid quantitative expansion focuses on curriculum development
and the provision of teaching aids. Emphasis is being placed on developing
new curricula relevant to the country, on producing and distributing learn-
ing materials to all students and adults in the literacy course free of
charge, and on providing adequate in-service training for primary school
teachers. Textbooks for primary education have been written in Somali and
are being tested and introduced into the system. By 1978 textbooks for
secondary education are also expected to be written in Scmali on the basis
of the revised secondary school curriculum. It is estimated that on average
2.2 million textbooks p.a. need to be produced and distributed during 1979/80-
1981/82. The State Printing Agency (SPA), the sole printing agency in the
country, can produce 1.4 million copies of textbooks for the MOE in 1976/77.
3.09      Equally as important as mass education is the provision of educa-
tion and training to provide high- and middle-level manpower for the small
but expanding monetary sector of the economy. To meet professional and
technical manpower needs, the National University is being expanded from
a capacity of 2,200 in 1976 to a capacity of 3,600 in 1979 with assistance
from the EEC and Italy. A Polytechnic with a capacity of 800 will be com-
pleted in 1977 with the assistance of the People's Republic of Korea. To
cater to the manpower needs for the Lower Juba Valley Project, which is
expected to be the largest and most important development project of the
1979-83 Development Plan, various vocational training centers as well as
schools for rural skills and agricultural production are planned with aid
primarily from the United Arab Emirates (UAE). To respond to the urgent
manpower needs of the livestock and health sectors resulting from, among
other things, the drought rehabilitation program (paras. 2.04, 2.10), the
Government plans to strengthen animal husbandry and paramedical training
facilities.
Evaluation of the Sector
3.10      Over the last few years, Somalia has made significant progress
in the expansion and improvement of the education system. Primary enroll-
ments have increased at a very rapid rate (65% p.a. from 1972 to 1975) from
a small base. According to Government data, more than half of the adult
population are now estimated to be literate as against only 5% in 1973.
These achievements have been possible because of bold Government decisions
regarding the language of instruction, the increase in the age of entry to
primary school, the reduction of the primary education cycle and the em-
ployment of teachers without formal qualifications. The Government attempts
to mobilize the population to build schools and to serve as temporary teachers
and instructors have been successful. However, quantitative expansion has
been carried out at the expense of educational quality and the Government
is aware that various measures are urgently required to improve teacher
quality, the provision of teaching aids and education administration.
3.11      National service volunteers, teachers from the one-year crash
training program after primary education and the shorter primary cycle are the
important factors enabling education to be expanded at lower cost, but may
cause a lowering of standards of primary education, unless measures are taken



- 8 -
to provide these teachers with further training and supervision and to supply
teaching materials and teachers' guides.  The MOE was reorganized in 1976.
The new Department of Teacher Training and Curriculum Development is respon-
sible for developing and revising curricula, preparing manuscripts for text-
books, training teachers on how to use new textbooks, and running the in-
service teacher training program. However, the Curriculum Development Divi-
sion of the Department has inadequate physical facilities and insufficient
staff (para. 4.02).
3.12      The provision of teaching/learning materials also requires immedi-
ate attention. Since 1973 curriculum content and language of instruction
have been changed necessitating the provision of new textbooks, teachers'
guides and other materials. As indicated earlier (para. 3.08), in 1976/77
the SPA can deliver about 1.4 million copies of new books to the MOE. This
represents a major achievement but meets only about 60% of the needs of stu-
dents in the rapidly expanding school system and of adults in the literacy
course and in other nonformal education programs. With the increasing school
population and the drive for literacy, Somalia needs an expanded printing
capacity.
3.13.     The administrative structure to develop, organize and manage non-
formal education satisfactorily exists at the national level (para. 3.06),
but is weak at the regional level. The NAEC cannot by itself provide ade-
quate supervision and support for the rapidly expanding program. The
establishment of regional centers could strengthen nonformal education by
providing the necessary organization, supervision, materials distribution,
and multi-functional training programs including skill training, women's
education and adult basic education.
3.14      In the area of high- and middle-level manpower training, the
Government has followed the guidelines provided by the 1971 manpower survey.
Expansion and improvement of the National University and of middle-level
technical schools are proceeding rapidly. From 1981 Somalia will produce
600 technicians and craftsmen p.a. through institutional training. The
number of the general secondary school graduates is also expected to increase
rapidly (para. 3.04). In general terms, supply is expected to be in line
with estimated absorptive capacity or perhaps even to exceed it in some
areas. There are, however, areas where outputs of training institutions are
likely to fall greatly short of needs. In particular, specialized training
in agriculture, animal husbandry, forestry, simple rural skills and public
health needs to be expanded to meet the requirements of major rural develop-
ment programs either under implementation or in an advanced planning stage
(paras. 2.06-2.08).
3.15      Increased attention needs to be paid to the evaluation of recent
education reforms and existing training programs. There is an apparent need
for a qualitative evaluation of the effects of such decisions as the introduc-
tion of the Somali language as the medium of instruction, the reduction of the
primary education cycle, the use of national service volunteers as primary
school teachers, and the one-year crash primary teacher training program.
Systematic evaluation of these measures is an essential prerequisite to the



- 9 -
formulation of long-term educational strategies. Also, the trade testing
system recently introduced by the Ministry of Labor and Sports shouid be fur-
ther expanded to identify the skill training areas which require strengthen-
ing, and a survey of training needs for managers and public administrators is
necessary to develop appropriate modes of pre-service and in-service training
schemes for executives and middle-level personnel of the Government and
parastatal enterprises (para. 2.11).
Financing Education Development
3.16      Recurrent Expenditure.  Private schools were nationalized in
1973. The MOE is responsible for financing the major part of education
and training services. Funds for university education and some special-
ized training are channelled through the Ministry of Culture and Higher
Education (MCHE) and certain other Ministries (Chart 5). Education
is free apart from a secondary school boarding fee of So. Shs. 450 p.a.
Between 1969 and 1974, the recurrent expenditure of the MOE was about 7%
of the central Government's recurrent expenditure. However, as a result
of the rapid growth of the sector, it has been increasing rapidly since
1974 as shown below:
Recurrent Education Expenditure
(So.Shs. millions)
1973     1974       1975       1976
(estimate)
1.  MOE and MCHE          28.9       45.8      73.9       93.8
2.  Central Government  374.8      530.8      585.2      684.6
3.  1 as % of 2            7.7        8.6      12.6       13.7
Between 1974 and 1976, recurrent expenditure of the MOE and the MCHE have
doubled. The 1976 share of these two Ministries' expenditure in the total
Government expenditure (13.7%) is, however, still substantially lower than
that in neighboring countries, where recurrent expenditures on education
generally absorb at least 20% of the budget. This has been possible because
of the careful control of post-primary school expansion and the relatively
low unit recurrent as well as capital costs in comparison to those of other
East African countries.
3.17      However, based on MOE staff projections of school enrollment to
1980/81 (para. 3.04), the MOE recurrent expenditure is estimated to grow at
an average rate of 19% p.a., while that of the MCHE is expected to increase
at an average rate of 12% p.a. as a result of the University expansion now
underway. By 1980, expenditure of both Ministries as a percentage of the
Central Government expenditure is expected to reach about 20% assuming an
8% p.a. increase in public revenue. This allocation reflects the high priority
given by the Government to the sector since the early 1970s. That this high
proportion is manageable is also indicated by the fact that after 1980 the
growth rate of recurrent education expenditures is likely to slow down.



- 10 -
A projection, carried out by Bank staff on the assumption that once universal
primary education of six years is reached, expansion of secondary education
enrollment will continue to be controlled, shows that by 1986 recurrent
education expenditure will absorb about 19% of the Government budget
(Annex 6).
3.18      Capital Expenditure.  A total capital outlay of So.Shs. 191 million
is allocated to education for the 1974-78 Plan period. This accounts for 5%
of the total Government investment. Planned investment in the education sec-
tor for the 1971-73 Plan period was So.Shs. 49 million which was also about
5% of total planned outlay during the period. While there is little differ-
ence in the education share of the capital budget, the increase in absolute
terms is very large. Of the total education investment, about 25% is allo-
cated to primary and secondary education, 21% to technical and vocational
education, and 26% to higher education. Education for nomads and teacher
training are expected to account for 19% and 7%, respectively, of the total
capital expenditures for the sector. It-is assumed that external sources
will finance about 70% of the total investment, while the Government partici-
pation, which was almost nil under the previous Plan, will be some 30%.
Actual investment for 1974 and 1975 indicates, however, that the education
sector received 8% of the total zapital expenditure instead of the planned
5%. Based on actual disbursements, the IDA assistance for those two years
accounted for about 30% of the total actual public investment in education
(So.Sh.55.8 million).
3.19      Projections of the capital expenditure for education beyond 1978 are
highly speculative and need to await completion of the studies referred to in
para. 3.04, as well as the formulation of the next Five-Year Development Plan.
It is apparent, however, that the Government strategy will essentially consist
of (i) supporting with its own budget construction of primary school class-
rooms; and (ii) seeking foreign assistance for the improvements and expansions
of educational institutions above the primary level. The construction of 650
primary school classrooms p.a. (para. 3.03) is expected to cost the Government
So.Shs. 12 million p.a. over the next ten years, even if local communities
provide free labor under self-help schemes. As for secondary, specialized and
higher education, the programs assisted by the EEC, Italy, the People's
Republic of Korea and the USSR are at advanced stage of execution. While
there are no indications yet of further commitments by these countries in
support of the sector, the UAE has recently agreed to extend asgistance for
approximately US$20 million equivalent to finance several training institu-
tions including agricultural and vocational training centers in the Lower Juba
Valley (para. 3.09) and general secondary schools. The project assisted
by the UAE, the ongoing IDA second education project and the proposed third
education project are expected to be the bulk of education programs assisted
by external sources during the 1976-1982 period.



- 11 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The proposed education project would assist an investment program
aimed at (a) improving the quality of education through curriculum development,
teacher upgrading and production of teaching materials; (b) promoting basic
education and skill training among youths and adults; (c) providing training
for specialized manpower in animal husbandry, forestry and paramedical services;
and (d) improving the system of trade testing and skilled workers' upgrading.
It would consist of:
(i) Construction, extension, renovation and/or
equipping of the following institutions:
Approximate No. of Student Places
Existing     New      Total
One new Curriculum Development
Center (CDC)                        n.a.       n.a.      n.a.
Extension to the State Printing
Agency (SPA)                        n.a.       n.a.      n.a.
Seven new Regional Adult
Education and Training
Centers (RAETCs)                     -         840       840
Equipping of the National
Trade Testing and Training
Center (NTTTC)                       30         60        90
One new Livestock and Forestry
School (LFS)                         -         360       360
One new Health Personnel
Training Institute (HPTI) 1/        200         -        200
Renovations to the Mogadiscio
School of Nursing (MSN)             180         -        180
One new School of Nursing             -            60       60
in Kismayo (KSN)
n.a. - not applicable
1/   As replacement to the existing Institute due to be demolished (paras. 4.17-
4.18).



- 12 -
(ii) Provision of three-year incremental requirement for
printing materials by MOE.
(iii)  The cost of specialist services and fellowships
for (a) curriculum development and teaching mate-
rials development and production; (b) rural skill
training; (c) a survey of public administration
and management training needs; and (d) project
administration including civil works design and
supervision.
Project Items
4.02      Curriculum Development Center.  In view of the many changes that
have taken place in the sector since 1969 (paras. 3.07-3.09), the workload
of the MOE Curriculum Development Division has considerably increased to such
an extent so that its existing staff and physical facilities require reinforc-
ing to enable the efficient execution of its work. The Division has 12 staff
who work in unsuitable accommodations. The Division evaluates and revises
curricula and syllabi for general, technical and teacher education, and
also edits, tests, revises and assists in the training of teachers in the
use of textbooks. In addition, teaching aids and materials for general and
science education are developed and produced.
4.03      The project would help the Government establish an expanded Cur-
riculum Development Center by providing: (a) the construction of a CDC
building, (b) the procurement of necessary equipment, and (c) technical
assistance comprising: (i) two man-years for a curriculum development/education
evluation specialist, one man-year for a general teaching aids production
specialist and one man-year for a science teaching aids production specialist;
and (ii) sixteen man-years of fellowships for the CDC staff. The fellowship
training program of the CDC staff would be timed so that its completion would
take place shortly before the new CDC begins to operate. The specialists,
however, would be expected to arrive six months earlier than the date the new
CDC starts functioning. The specialists would provide guidance to local CDC
staff in all their activities during the first year of operation. In addition,
the specialists would conduct in-service training for the CDC staff. This
training would include educational evaluation which the Government intends to
introduce as an integral part of the functions of the CDC (para. 3.15).
4.04      Textbook Printing.  The State Printing Agency (SPA) under the
Ministry of Information is the only printer for both the public and private
sectors in Somalia. In 1975 the SPA printed for the MOE about one million
textbooks. During the first half of 1976 about 600,000 were printed, and for
the second half of 1976 about one and a half million textbooks would have to
be produced. During the next 10 years, the MOE estimates that an average of
about 2.3 million books p.a. will be required. They would consist of 141
titles of which 48 are for primary education, 40 for secondary education, 25
for teacher training, 19 for nonformal education and 9 for teachers' guides.
This estimate exceeds the present printing capacity of the SPA, which need
also meet requirements of the Ministry of Culture and Higher Education (MCHE).



- 13 -
Requirements for printing all kinds of materials including government documents,
newspapers and textbooks, are increasing rapidly. The SPA now operates in two
shifts with severe workloads. As a result, there is the need for additional
machinery and for the establishment of an in-house printing plant for systematic
and timely production of textbooks.
4.05      The proposed project would assist the required expansion by provid-
ing: (a) additional printing equipment, (b) the construction of physical
facilities to accommodate the additional equipment, (c) three man-years of
specialist services to train the local staff in the operation, maintenance
and repair of printing equipment and in printing procedures and techniques
in general, and (d) MOE's incremental printing materials (e.g., paper and
other printing supplies) for the first three years of the expanded operation
of the SPA.
4.06      To ensure the timely printing of an adequate number of textbooks, a
draft agreement between the MOE, the MCHE and the SPA has been prepared by the
Government and commented upon by the Association. The Government would
provide the Association with the final agreement.
4.07      The storage and distribution of books and other educational mate-
rials are satisfactory. The Central stores unit of the MOE has several store-
houses in different locations in Mogadiscio, where books and other educational
materials are stored and sorted for distribution to the 16 regions of the
country. The Ministry of Transport, upon the request by the MOE, provides the
delivery trucks. At the regional level, each regional education headquarters
has a warehouse and a vehicle for the distribution of educational materials to
the schools of the region. Except in extremely wet weather most schools in
Somalia are generally accessible by roads. The MOE plans to consolidate the
storage of all books and educational materials in one central warehouse to
facilitate sorting and distribution to the different regions of the country.
Funds have already been allocated by the Government for the construction of
the central warehouse.
4.08      Regional Adult Education and Training Centers.  The scale of the
1973-75 mass literacy campaign (paras. 3.05, 3.13 and Appendix II) cannot be
maintained but the Government is determined to ensure the permanency of what
has been achieved and to strengthen literacy with functional skills. As
indicated at paras. 3.05-3.06 and 3.13 above, facilities at the regional and
district levels are essential to the development and improvement of the non-
formal education system.
4.09      The Government plans to establish a Regional Adult Eduation and
Training Center (RAETC) in each region. The Centers would offer a broad
basic adult education course of three to six months duration, which would
include rural skill training, particularly addressed to women and to the
rapidly expanding number of primary school leavers. The RAETCs would also
act as regional support and resource centers to provide the necessary organ-
ization, supervision and materials distribution for adult learning groups of
which some 1,500 are already functioning (para. 3.06). The curricula and some
printed materials for these groups have been developed by the NAEC. The



- 14 -
proposed RAETCs would also be expected to support the ongoing radio education
program (para. 3.07) by serving as distribution and maintenance centers for
radio receiving sets in the rural areas. Education broadcasting programs now
occupy 10 hours per week and include information and advice on agriculture,
livestock production and forestry. Unesco has agreed to provide fellowships
to the MOE in educational radio and technical assistance to improve the
quality of the radio programs.
4.10      The proposed project would assist the Government in the implementa-
tion of the above plans by providing construction materials and equipment for
the establishment of seven RAETCs (120 student places each) in priority loca-
tions. In addition, about 1,200 radio receiving sets and 800 radio recording
sets would be provided for distribution to adult learning groups within the
catchment area of each of the proposed centers. To help ensure the success of
the program, one man-year of specialist services in village technology would
be provided in the proposed project. The Government has agreed to employ
the specialist not later than September 30, 1978. The specialist would advise
on development of skill training courses and help train Somali craftsmen as
instructors for the seven centers.
4.11      National Trade Testing and Training Center.  About 90% of the
skilled and semi-skilled labor in Somalia learned their trades through in-
formal on-the-job apprenticeship without formal training. Many of these
workers possess more relevant skills than those of the graduates from tech-
nical and vocational schools; yet they are generally paid lower wages than
those who have formal training. Wage differentials also exist between groups
of workers who have had equivalent or similar institutional training. In
1974 a trade testing unit was organized under the Ministry of Labor and Sports
to develop and administer trade tests for the purpose of classifying and
certifying some 50,000 skilled and semi-skilled workers in the country in
about 40 trades and vocations and to develop a more precise basis for the
formulation of wage policies. The Government also intends to utilize the
trade test results for job placement assisting employers in the recruitment
of qualified workers, as a tool for qualitative improvements in vocational
and technical training and for keeping abreast with the manpower supply
situation in the country as a guide to maintaining a satisfactory balance
between labor supply and demand.
4.12      Trade testing in Somalia is, however, still at an embryonic stage.
The system is not well organized, guidelines and procedures are not fully
established, testing facilities are lacking and testers are inadequately
trained. To improve the system, the proposed project would assist the Govern-
ment in developing the National Trade Testing and Training Center (NTTTC)
in Mogadiscio, which for the last two years has received assistance from
UNDP/ILO, to serve as headquarters for the trade testing program; it' would
also serve as the staff training center for trade testing and other specialized
skills. Assistance from the project would consist of providing trade testing
equipment in mechanical, electrical, and woodwork trades. In addition, two
man-years of specialist services in trade testing and vocational training
would be provided to assist in improving the organizational structure, for-
mulating policies and procedures, and training of the necessary staff of the



- 15 -
entire trade testing program. Six man-months of fellowship training would
also be provided to enable staff from the Center to observe trade testing
programs in other countries. An existing Government building has been pro-
vided to house the proposed Center.
4.13      Livestock and Forestry School.  As a long range plan for the
development of the livestock industry in Somalia, the Government intends to
introduce modern animal production techniques focusing on the improvement
of livestock breeds, feeding, range management, and the processing and
utilization of animal by-products. The ultimate goal of the Government
is to encourage animal raisers to engage in sedentary systems of produc-
tion and thus reduce the number of nomads (para. 2.05). In forestry, the
Government intends to improve and intensify its ongoing programs in forest
and range management, reforestation and water shed development (para. 2.07).
4.14      To implement the Government's development plans about 180 univer-
sity graduates of animal husbandry, 550 animal production technicians and
270 forest rangers would be needed during the next ten years (Annex 2).
No problems are foreseen in providing university level manpower since the
College of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science of the National University
will graduate 26 with the Bachelor's degree in animal husbandry in 1977 and
the University intends to gradually increase this output to 42 p.a. However,
facilities for training middle-level technicians in animal husbandry and
forest rangers are not available in Somalia. At present secondary school
graduates are recruited for these posts.
4.15      The proposed project would assist the Government in establishing a
360-place Livestock and Forestry School (LFS) where four-year post-primary
courses would be offered in animal husbandry and forestry with an expected
output of 55 animal husbandry technicians and 27 forest rangers p.a.   The LFS
would be located within walking distance of the existing Agricultural Secondary
School and the College of Agriculture of the University, thus enabling the
mutual utilization of staff, equipment and facilities. A satisfactory curri-
culum has been prepared by the Ministry of Livestock, Forests and Range with
assistance from a PAO livestock specialist. Instructors for the animal
husbandry course would be recruited from graduates of the College of Animal
Husbandry and Veterinary Science of the University. For the forestry course,
however, no instructors would be locally available since the only existing
forestry training program in Somalia is for forest guards. The project
therefore would also provide three fellowships of two man-years each for
training abroad of forestry instructors who would be selected among science
or agriculture graduates of the National University.
4.16      Health Personnel Training Institute, Mogadiscio School of
Nursing and Kismayo School of Nursing. The Health Personnel Training Institute
(HPTI) at Mogadiscio trains all supportive health personnel for the entire
country except nurses who are also trained at the Hargeisa and Mogadiscio
Schools of Nursing. These personnel include sanitarians, laboratory techni-
cians, x-ray technicians, pharmacist assistants, health superintendents and
health inspectors.



- 16 -
4.17      Within the next ten years, output from the HPTI is expected to
meet the country's manpower requirements for supportive health personnel
ir accordance with the planned expansion of the health services. These
requirements consist, inter alia, of about 330 sanitarians, 350 laboratory
technicians, 150 pharmacy assistants, 70 anesthetist assistants and 50 x-ray
technicians. The HPTI, however, has inadequate facilities and is due to be
demolished soon as it is located in the area where the expansion of the
Mogadiscio Port Authority is taking place.
4.18      In view of the projected need for additional health personnel,
the Government plans to construct a new 200-place HPTI as soon as possible
and to transfer its community-oriented nursing course to the Mogadiscio School
of Nursing (MSN). This arrangement would allow the new HPTI to concentrate on
the training of supportive health personnel. To be able to accommodate the
added nursing course, the MSN would be renovated. The new HPTI would be
located within the compound of the MSN to enable both institutions to share
staff and physical facilities. The HPTI is adequately staffed with 17 full-
time and 11 part-time Somali instructors. Three WHO health education special-
ists provide technical assistance.
4.19      The proposed project would also include a new 60-place Kismayo
School of Nursing (KSN) to solve an acute shortage of nurses and their uneven
regional distribution by decentralizing training (para. 2.10). It is
estimated that there are only 14 trained nurses in three districts in the
southern region serving 160,000 population. The establishment of the KSN
would therefore improve and extend the health services in the region where
the population is increasing rapidly as a part of the resettlement program
(paras. 2.04-2.05).
4.20      Survey of Administration and Management Training Needs.  One of the
most serious problems Somalia faces is the lack of trained and experienced
Somali administrators and managers to administer existing Government services
and to execute and monitor economic and social developmental programs (para.
2.11). The Government is therefore forced to rely on expatriates who usually
are on short fixed-service tenures thus making it difficult to ensure operational
continuity. To some extent, expatriates also occupy supporting administrative
posts such as secretaries, bookkeepers and accountants. Currently, there are
two institutions, the Somali Institute of Development Administration and Man-
agement (SIDAM) and the Institute for Accountants and Surveyors conducting
training programs for administrative, managerial and clerical personnel. How-
ever, their training programs are not well attuned to existing demand in terms
of type, number and quality of manpower. The Government intends to utilize
the results of the proposed survey as a basis for initiating the necessary
reforms.
4.21      The project includes the provision of one man-year of specialist
services in public administration and management manpower planning as well as
equipment and logistical support to assist the Government in conducting a
comprehensive survey of the manpower training needs in public administration
and management. The SIDAM has been designated by the Government to carry out



- 17 -
the survey. In order to ensure the successful and timely implementation of
the survey, the Government has agreed to submitt to the Association for review
a plan for executing the survey not later than October 30, 1977, and to
recruit the administration and management manpower specialist, procure the
necessary equipment and start the survey not later than April 30, 1978.
4.22      Technical Assistance.  The proposed project would in total include
22.5 man-years of fellowships and 16 man-years of specialist services (Annex
7). In fields related to the project items, 17 persons would receive training
overseas and 10 experts would provide specialist services. The Government
has agreed to consult with the Association with respect to the fellowship
program as shown in Annex 7.
V. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCIAL PLAN, IMPLEMENTATION,
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
Cost Estimates
5.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$11.7 million
equivalent. The summary of project cost is shown in Annexes 8 and 9 and
summarized as follows:



- 18 -
Estimated Cost by Project Items
% of
So. Shs. millions           US$  millions         Total
Project Item         Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total Base Cost
I. Civil Works, Furniture,
Equipment, Printing    ,
Materials and Vehicles
1. Curriculum Development
Center                 0.76   1.26       2.02     0.12   0.20       0.32      4
2. Textbook Printing         2.02  15.02    17.04       0.32   2.39      2.71    34
3. Regional Adult
Education and
Training Centers        1.51   4.16      5.67     0.24   0.66       0.90    11
4. National Trade
Testing and
Training Center        0.12   0.70       0.82      0.02   0.11      0.13      2
5. Livestock and Forestry
School                 2.83   5.04       7.87     0.45   0.80       1.25    15
6. Health Personnel
Training Institute    2.21   3.02        5.23     0.35   0.48       0.83    10
7. Mogadiscio School of
Nursing                0.37   0.70       1.07     0.06   0.11       0.17      2
8. Kismayo School of
Nursing                0.65   0.92       1.57     0.10   0.15       0.25      3
9. Project Unit                 0   0.25      0.25         0   0.04      0.04      1
Sub-Total I         10.47  31.07    41.54       1.66   4.94       6.60    82
II. Technical Assistance         1.55   6.23      7.78      0.25   0.99       1.24    15
III. Survey of Public Admini-
stration and Management
Training Needs               0.12   0.06      0.18      0.02   0.01      0.03      1
IV. Project Administration       0.57   0.32      0.89      0.09   0.05      0.14      2
Total Base Cost I-IV
(Feb. 1977)              12.71  37.68    50.39       2.02   5.99       8.01   100
V. Contingencies
Physical Increase (9%)   1.73   5.22        6.95      0.17   0.51      0.68
Price Increase (34%)       4.03  11.97    16.00       0.74   2.22      2.96
Sub-Total V             5.76  17.19    22.95       0.91   2.73       3.64
Total Project Cost I-V    18.47  54.87    73.34         2.93   8.72    11.65
1/   Includes taxes of US$0.4 million equivalent.



- 19 -
Estimated Cost by Project Items
(IDA and ADF Separate)
% of
So. Shs. millions          US$  millions          Total
Project Item         Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total Base Cost
I. Civil Works, Furniture,
Equipment, Printing
Materials and Vehicles
1. Curriculum Development
Center                 0.76   1.26      2.02      0.12   0.20      0.32      5
2. Textbook Printing            0   9.80      9.80         0   1.56      1.56    23
3. Regional Adult
Education and
Training Centers       1.51   4.16      5.67      0.24   0.66      0.90    13
4. National Trade
Testing and
Training Center        0.12   0.70      0.82      0.02   0.11      0.13      2
5. Livestock and Forestry
School                 2.83   5.04      7.87      0.45   0.80      1.25    19
6. Health Personnel
Training Institute    2.21   3.02       5.23      0.35   0.48      0.83    12
7. Mogadiscio School of
Nursing                0.37   0.70       1.07     0.06   0.11      0.17      3
8. Kismayo School of
Nursing                0.65   0.92       1.57     0.10   0.15      0.25      3
9. Project Unit                 0   0.25      0.25         0   0.04      0.04     1
Sub-Total 1          8.45  25.85    34.30       1.34   4.11      5.45    81
II. Technical Assistance         1.30   5.35      6.65      0.21   0.85      1.06    16
III. Survey of Public Admini-
stration and Management
Training Needs               0.12   0.06      0.18      0.02   0.01      0.03      1
IV. Project Administration       0.57   0.32      0.89      0.09   0.05      0.14      2
Total Base Cost I-IV
(Feb. 1977)              10.44  31.58    42.02       1.66   5.02      6.68   100
V. Contingencies
Physical Increase (9%)   0.97   2.64        3.61     0.15   0.42       0.57
Price Increase (34%)      3.98  11.52    15.50       0.63   1.83       2.46
Sub-Total V             4.95  14.16    19.11       0.78   2.25      3.03
Total IDA Project
Cost I-V                15.39  45.74    61.13       2.44   7.27       9.71 1/
IV. ADF 2/                       3.08   9.13    12.21       0.49   1.45      1.94
Total Project Cost I-V    18.47  54.87    73.34         2.93   8.72    11.65
1/   Includes taxes of US$0.4 million equivalent.
21   Civil works, equipment, technical assistance and contingencies for elements,
printshop, financed by the ADF.



- 20 -
5.02      Construction, furniture and equipment costs provided by the Gov-
ernment and reviewed by the Unesco preparation mission and Bank staff, are
based upon quotations received in the first education project and other
similar Government projects.  The base cost of construction in Mogadiscio for
single story type of construction used for education facilities such as that
to be provided for the LFS, is US$135 per square meter (February 1977) and
compares with US$154 in Kenya (October 1975), US$200 in Tanzania (December
1975) and US$120 in Sudan (March 1975). The base cost of RAETCs constructed
by departmental forces of the Regional Councils utilizing a self-help scheme
is US$85 per square meter. Cost estimates are based upon the maximum use of
local materials and simple bui:Lding techniques. School construction in
Somalia is generally uniform and consists of exposed concrete floor slabs and
walling of either concrete block or rough field stone and occasionally brick.
Roofs are mainly pitched with either corrugated cement asbestos or iron
sheeting. Costs of the CDC, the HPTI and the SPA of US$200-260 per square
meter provides for more complex requirements, i.e., additional mechanical and
electrical services for the CDC and the HPTI and a concrete structure for the
SPA for heavy duty service. Schedules of accommodation are functional and
appropriate to accomplish education objectives of the project. Furniture and
equipment costs are reasonable. Cost per man-year of technical assistance
specialists is estimated at US$55,000 equivalent.
5.03      Customs Duties and Taxes.  In accordance with Government's practices,
all items imported specifically for the proposed project would be exempt from
direct customs duties and taxes. However, the National Agency for Building
Materials (NABM) has a monopoly on the importation of building materials and
pays import duties and taxes, which will be included in the prices paid by
contractors on material purchased from the Agency. Of the total estimated
civil works costs, about US$0.4 million would represent customs duties and/or
taxes.
5.04      Contingency Allowances.  For physical increases, 10% has been added
to the base cost of civil works, equipment, furniture and printing materials,
and 5% to technical assistance and project administration costs. Estimated
price increases are based upon the following annual rates for which price
escalation has been calculated from the base cost date (February 1977) in
accordance with the implementation schedule (Annex 10).
Furniture,        Technical Assistance
Materials and                and
Civil Works        Equipment         Project Administration
1977-79           12%                8%                    7.5%
1980-83           10%                7%                    7.5%
5.05      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component has
been calculated as follows: (a) construction and site development, 52%;
(b) furniture, 80%; (c) instructional equipment and vehicles, 93%; (d) print-
ing materials, 100%; (e) survev and project administration, 35%; and (f)
technical assistance, 80%. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
US$8.7 million, or 74% of the total project cost of US$11.7 million. This



- 21 -
high foreign exchange component reflects the project emphasis on the provision
of equipment, printing materials and technical assistance (62% of the total
project cost). The foreign exchange percentage for civil works and furni-
ture is also high because of the high cost of imported materials in compari-
son with the lower cost of local materials (mainly bricks, cement, aggregates
and labor) and the use of self-help in some of the building construction
activities under the project.
Financial Plan
5.06      The financial plan provides for IDA assistance of US$8.0 million
equivalent, or 69% of total project cost, and for the African Development Fund
(ADF) assistance of US$1.7 million, or 14% of total project cost, as follows:
US$ millions
Somali
Government    IDA    ADF   Total
1.   Civil Works                         0.78        1.85   0.36   2.99
2.   Furniture, Instructional
Equipment and Vehicles              0.18        1.25   0.62   2.05
3.   Printing Materials                     0        1.56      0   1.56
4.   Technical Assistance                0.09        1.00   0.16   1.25
5.   Project Administration
and Administration and
Management Survey                   0.07        0.10      0   0.17
6.   Contingencies                       0.88        2.24   0.51   3.63
Total              2.00        8.00   1.65  11.65
(of which taxes US$0.4 million)
Through parallel financing the ADF would assist in printing facilities and
technical assistance in the textbook printing item. The ADF loan would be
for 40 years with a 10-year grace period and carry a service charge of 3/4 of
1%. Effectiveness of the ADF loan would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
The Government's total contribution of So.Shs. 12.6 million spread over a
period of six years with a maximum contribution of So.Shs. 4.0 million
includes a maximum of So.Shs. 1.0 million taxes in any one year. Recurrent
expenditure generated by the proposed project is estimated at So. Shs. 6.2
million p.a. at 1976 prices, or about 2.0% of the estimated recurrent expendi-
ture on education in 1982/83.
Implementation
5.07      Because of general experience with Bank Group-financed projects
in Somalia, the period of project implementation has been conservatively
estimated at six years after the date of Credit effectiveness, including
six months for completion of payments and withdrawals from the Credit



- 22 -
account. If the project is implemented more rapidly than presently ex-
pected and savings are realized, undisbursed funds would be used for pro-
ject related items (e.g., additional paper supplies) to be agreed by the
Government and the Association.
5.08      Evaluation.  The Government confirmed that not later than
September 30, 1982 the Project Unit would organize a project evaluation
committee composed of the representatives of the Ministries involved in the
project, and prepare terms of reference for review by the Association. The
CDC Director would chair the committee and provide leadership in planning and
conducting the evaluation of the proposed project. It was also agreed that
the report would be submitted to the Association not later than September 30,
1983.
5.09      Administration.  The Project and School Design Units established
for the implementation of the first and second IDA education projects (Credits
247-SO and 511-SO) would be responsible for the financial and administra-
tive control of the proposed project (including ADF project items) including
liaison with the Association. The Units would be strengthened by the addition
of an architect and an assistant accountant. Five man-years of specialist
services for the architect are included in the project because the architect
is being recruited internationally. This architect would also train Project
Unit staff in addition to production duties. The appointments of the architect
and the assistant accountant on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
5.10      Professional Services (Architectural/Engineering).  The Project
and School Design Units would be responsible for the design and supervision
of construction of project institutions. Standard plans and construction
documents developed for the first and second education projects would be
utilized to the maximum extent possible.
5.11      Sites.  Satisfactory sites are available for the CDC, SPA, LFS,
HPTI and KSN. All RAETCs have been located and selection of the sites as
agreed with the Association would be completed prior to Credit effectiveness.
All land is Government-owned and is provided at no cost to the project.
5.12      Building Industry.  At present there are only four local private
construction firms in Somalia. The Ministry of Public Works performs certain
governmental work by departmental forces and each region has established de-
partmental forces for construction utilizing mainly self-help schemes.
However, as the local private firms and the Ministry of Public Works are
unable to undertake large civil engineering works, the Somali Construction
Agency (WDS) was created in 1974 with operations starting in 1975. WDS
accomplished work valued at about So.Shs. 105 million in 1975 which compared
with less than So.Shs. 60 million by the local private construction firms.
WDS is allowed by the Government to submit tenders in competition with local
and foreign firms. There are no foreign contractors established in the coun-
try and from past experience in the first and second IDA education projects,
it is unlikely that the proposed project would attract foreign firms. How-
ever, several large construction schemes are to start within the next 12-18
months, which might attract the interest of foreign firms. This expected



- 23 -
increase in construction activities, combined with the shortage of skilled
workers, may affect the availability and performance of building contractors.
This has been taken into account in establishing the six-year implementation
period (para. 5.07).
Procurement
5.13      Contracts for civil works, construction materials, equipment,
furniture, and printing materials including paper, would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding, in accordance with the Bank
Group's Guidelines for Procurement, 1/ except as follows:
(a) locally procured construction materials for seven
RAETCs;
(b) contracts costing less than US$50,000 each for
furniture and equipment (including vehicles); and
(c) local transportation services.
Due to their remote locations and small size, the RAETCs would be constructed
by departmental forces by the regional councils utilizing a self-help scheme
under the direction of the Project Unit and following an established method
successfully used in previous education projects. 2/ Contracts would be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally and in accord-
ance with local procedures satisfactory to the Association. The aggregate value
of these contracts is likely to be about US$350,000 equivalent excluding contin-
gencies. Contracts to be awarded by international competitive bidding is esti-
mated at about US$4.0 million for civil works and US$3.8 million for furniture,
equipment and printing materials.
5.14      Imported building materials would be procured by the NABM on the
basis of international competitive bidding following the Bank Group's Guidelines
for Procurement. The Agency is responsible for procurement of all imported
building materials. There have been delays in shipments and clearing materials
through customs in the previous education projects; therefore, the Government
has confirmed that the Agency will procure materials required for all project
institutions according to a half-yearly forecast by the Project Unit to ensure
adequate supplies during construction.
5.15      Standardized sketch designs, draft tender documents and master
lists of furniture, equipment and printing materials, indicating proposed
grouping for tender, would be reviewed by the Association. Items would be
1/   The portion of the project financed by ADF will be procured under ADF
procedures that provide for competitive bidding and meet requirements
of efficiency and economy.
2/   Seven RAETCs at an average local material cost of about US$12,000 each,
for a total of US$84,000 excluding contingencies.



- 24 -
grouped to the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding and to
permit bulk procurement. Review of tender evaluation documents by the Asso-
ciation prior to award would be required for contracts for civil works and
for contracts above US$50,000 equivalent for construction materials, equipment,
furniture and local transportation services.
5.16      Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed
a preference of 15% or the existing rate of import duties, whichever is
lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers. Qualified
domestic civil works contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of
7-1/2% over bid prices of competing foreign contractors.
Disbursement
5.17      Disbursement (Annex Il) would be on the basis of:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures for imported construction
materials, furniture, instructional equipment and vehicles,
and printing materials;
(b)  56% of total expenditures for civil works excluding con-
struction materials in (a) above;
(c) 100% of ex-factory cost of locally manufactured furniture
or equipment;
(d)  80% of total expenditures for locally procured furniture,
equipment, vehicles and local transportation services;
(e) 50% of total expenditures for the management survey and
project administration; and
(f) 100% of foreign and 80% of local expenditures for technical
assistance.
5.18      Disbursements would be fully documented with the exception that
disbursement for project administration and the management survey would be
against certificates of expenditures for which documentation would be re-
tained by the Borrower and reviewed by the Association in the course of
project supervision. Disbursements against statement of expenditure are
estimated at a total value of US$200,000 equivalent. Auditing would be
required on an annual basis on expenditures incurred for project adminis-
tration and the management survey. Auditing procedures and information
required were agreed upon. The project is expected to be completed by
March 31, 1983 and the Credit Closing Date would be September 30, 1983.



- 25 -
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      In addition to the specific benefits of various project items men-
tioned in Chapter IV, the proposed project would generate important general
benefits, particularly in regard to education quality, manpower development
and institution building.
6.02      Quality.  Before the literacy campaign and the drive for the achieve-
ment of basic education for youths and adults were started in 1973, about 50%
of primary and 80% of secondary enrollments were concentrated in the two major
towns of Mogadiscio and Hargeisa. These proportions are changing rapidly be-
cause of the remarkable expansion of education now underway. Both the Govern-
ment mostly through the provision of teachers and the people mostly through
the construction of classrooms under self-help schemes, are providing the im-
petus towards a more equitable distribution of education opportunities, but
the rapid expansion of education may cause a deterioration in quality (para.
3.10). The proposed project would contribute to improved educational quality
through the provision of teaching aids, primarily textbooks, and through the
development of regional centers for the improvement of adult education. The
project wc4ld ensure every primary school student an adequate supply of text-
books.  As Somalia will have to rely for several years on unqualified teachers,
an adequate provision of textbooks is essential to ensure learning and is
likely to benefit particularly the students from the most disadvantaged groups
of the society. Similarly, the project would improve and expand basic educa-
tion and training for adults in small towns and rural areas.
6.03     NIanpower Development.  Previous IDA education projects are assist-
ing to alleviate shortages of high- and middle-level manpower for the mone-
tary sector of the economy primarily through the expansion and improvement
of teacher, technical and secondary education. As Somalia is expected soon to
have an adequate pool of secondary and technical school graduates for entry
into higher education and for employment in Government, industry and services,
the emphasis of the proposed project is on the expansion of specialized
training institutions to provide middle-level technical manpower for the rural
development programs. The LFS and the HPTI would be the only institutions in
the country for the training of animal husbandry technicians, forest rangers
and paramedical personnel, and their outputs together with the outputs from
the KSN would meet long-term needs.
6.04      Institution Building.  Institution building would continue to be an
essential feature of IDA assistance to the education sector in Somalia. Pre-
vious projects have helped the establishment of an efficient implementation
machinery and the development of functional and economical standard plans and
specifications for school buildings. The first and second IDA education pro-
jects have also assisted in the reorientation of teacher, secondary and tech-
nical education and promoted institutional arrangements for training of the
nomadic population. Under the proposed project, present school design and
implementation capacity would be further developed (para. 5.09). More signi-
ficantly, however, the capabilities of the existing institutions for curri-
culum development (para. 4.03), teaching aids preparation, testing, production
and distribution (para. 4.06), and administration and management of adult edu-
cation (para. 4.11) would be extended.



- 26
6.05      Risks.  The risks associated with the proposed project relate es-
sentially to two items: (a) textbook printing and (b) adult education. There
is the risk that because of the pressure to supply books in Somali as soon as
possible to a rapidly increasing enrollment, testing might be insufficient
and some of the materials developed might not be in line with the new curri-
cula. Also, in the initial stages of operation of the RAETCs some diffi-
culties can be foreseen because of the lack of experienced administrators of
nonformal education at the regional level and because of the need for im-
provisation. However, the accomplishments made by Somalia over the last
three years in the areas of textbook development and adult education point
to the fact that, altogether, the risks of inappropriate utilization of the
project's facilities are small. To further reduce them, technical assistance
and fellowships for overseas training would be provided according to a care-
fully designed schedule.
6.06      In spite of the risks, the project is to be recommended.  The Govern-
ment's objectives and strategy for education development coincide with those
recommended by the Bank Group. In recent years the country has made remarkable
progress in expanding educational opportunities within manpower guidelines and
budgetary constraints. Nevertheless, some important weaknesses remain
where the Bank Group's assistance can make a critical difference. The
proposed project is addressed to those areas and thus would aid and
increase the momentum achieved in the past few years.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      Agreement was reached with the Government on the following principal
points: recruitment schedule of the village technology specialist provided
for the RAETCs; an implementation plan for the survey of administration
and management training needs; the fellowship programs; the establishment of
a project evaluation committee and an evaluation report to the Association;
procurement of building materials by the NABM; and auditing procedures concern-
ing disbursements against certificate of expenditures (paras. 4.10, 4.21,
4.22, 5.08, 5.14 and 5.18).
7.02      In addition to the customary conditions, the appointments of an
architect and an assistant accountant, the selection of the sites for the
seven RAETCs and effectiveness of the ADF loan would be conditions of
Credit effectiveness (paras. 5.09, 5.11 and 5.06).
7.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA
credit of US$8.0 million equivalent on standard IDA terms to the
Somali Democratic Republic.



APPPENDIX I
THE EDUCATIONAL AND TRAINING SYSTEM
Structure and Organization
1.        The structure of the formal education system is in Chart 3.
Until recently, primary education consisted of an elementary cycle (grades
1-4) and an intermediate cycle (grades 5-8). Gradual changes to shorten
primary education from eight years to six years began in April 1975. From
November 1977 all students will be in the six-year program following the new
curriculum. Secondary education (grades 7-10) comprises general courses and
technical, accountancy, surveying, agricultural and fishery training. Three-
year courses (grades 7-9) are held in craft work at the Burao Technical
Institute, but will soon become four-year courses. Higher education is carried
out at a number of institutions organized in one overall establishment, the
National University, where courses are of four-year duration.
2.        Since 1973 the Ministry of Education (MOE) and the Ministry of
Culture and Higher Education (MCHE) share the responsibility for the de-
velopment of the formal education system and also for the major nonformal
education programs. The MOE is responsible for primary, secondary, tech-
nical and adult education as well as primary teacher training and to a cer-
tain extent, vocational training. Education planning is centralized, but
the Government is in the process of delegating greater responsibility to
the regional authorities. The MCHE is responsible for university education,
secondary teacher training, libraries, museums and other cultural activities.
In addition to these two ministries, there are several other ministries which
conduct training in specialized areas (Chart 5).
Language and Textbook Development
3.        In 1972 the Latin script was officially adopted as the script for
the Somali language. Subsequently, Somali has become the offical language of
the country replacing Arabic and English as the second and third languages.
To facilitate these developments, an Academy for Somali Studies has been
founded whose functions include research into the writing of the Somali
language and revival of national culture. The Academy is being housed in
new functional facilities under the second education project (Credit 511-SO).
4.        The Curriculum Development Division (CDD) of the Department of
Teacher Training and Curriculum Development of the MOE is responsible for
overall curriculum development of primary and secondary education and of
primary teacher training. The CDD staff select, purchase, distribute
and produce textbooks for students and manuals for teachers. Books and
booklets for nonformal education are prepared by the National Adult Educa-
tion Center (NAEC) and by the Women's Education Section of the Department
of Nonformal Education of the MOE. Both the CDD and the NAEC would be
assisted and strengthened through the proposed third education project.



APPPENDIX I
Page 2
5.        A National Language Commission was established to assist the CDD
of the Ministry of Education in 1971. Its terms of reference were mainly
to write textbooks in Somali for primary schools, readers for adults and
a vocabulary book. The latter has become the basis of a Somali dictionary.
Working through 15 committees composed of some 200 teachers, the Commis-
sion had written 140 textbooks by 1975 for the primary, secondary, techni-
cal and adult education courses. Of 140 textbooks, 32 have been printed
with a total of one million copies for primary education courses. In addi-
tion, the Commission has given advice to the NAEC on the preparation of
special radio programs which would be promoted under the proposed third edu-
cation project.
6.        All printed educational materials are produced at the State Printing
Agency (SPA) of the Ministry of Information. The SPA is the sole printer for
the country. In addition to textbooks, the SPA prints office forms, Govern-
ment documents, newspapers, and the entire range of printed materials required
by the country. However, the current efforts for permanent literacy, in-
creased primary school enrollment, and the introduction of Somali as the me-
dium of instruction will require an increase in capacity of the SPA which
would be provided under the proposed third education project.
Efficiency of the Sector
7.        In 1973, before the national literacy campaign, Somalia had one of
the world's least developed education training systems. The literacy rate
among adults was only 5% and primary and secondary enrollment ratios were
13% and 3.4% of the relevant age group respectively. Female students repre-
sented only about 22% of total enrollment. Two years later, an impressive
progress was achieved due to the literacy and mass education campaign. Ac-
cording to Government's estimates, the adult literacy rate increased from 5%
to over 50%, and the primary enrollment ratio went up from 13% to 34% of the
relevant age group. At the same time, enrollment at the secondary level has
been controlled, and the enrollment ratio is still about 3% of the relevant
age group.
8.        On the other hand, promotion and completion rates have been impres-
sive at each grade and cycle. Completion rates during recent years have
averaged 90% for the elementary cycle, 85% for the intermediate cycle and
80% for the secondary cycle. Progression rates averaging 90% from elemen-
tary to intermediate to secondary cycle are exceptionally good. These fi-
gures are indicative of the high motivation of Somali students. However, it
is imperative to develop as soon as possible adequate selection procedures
from primary to secondary education because, most probably, after the rapid
expansion of primary education now being pursued, only a small minority of
primary school leavers will be able to proceed to secondary school.
9.        The distribution of secondary school students between academic
and technical/vocational/agricultural courses was 82% and 18% in 1973 illus-
trating the comparatively low priority accorded to specialized education.
Government's policy is to rectify this imbalance principally by increasing



APPPENDIX I
Page 3
the practical content of the secondary schools' curriculum; the first major
step towards implementation of this policy is thn addition of facilities
for tes.:hing practical subjects in the 21 schools included in the first
and sec7ond IDA education projects. The Government efforts are apparent in
the improved distribution between academic and practical courses which was
73% and 27% in the 1976 school year.
10.       In order to assess competence of teachers in primary schools, an
evaluation examination was administered to the teaching cadre in 1972. Of
the 1,270 teachers who sat for the examination, only 47% passed. In all
probability, similar figures would apply to secondary school teachers. Steps
to help alleviate this situation are being taken. These include development
of the College of Education at Afgoi included in the first IDA education pro-
ject and the provision by UNDP/Unesco/Unicef of teams to assist pedagogical
improvements to complement the IDA-financed improvement of physical facilities
for the College. The new Primary Teacher Training College, included in the
IDA second project, and already in operation, would also help considerably
improve qualification of the teaching force. During the last three years, some
improvement has been noted. In 1975, 1,230 primary school teachers sat for
the evaluation examination and 58% of them passed.
Productivity of the Sector
11.       Livestock and subsistence crop production contributed the major
share of the national income and foreign exchange earnings. Because de-
velopment prospects in other sectors of the economy at present appear small,
the education sector should be increasingly geared to producing human re-
sources with attitudes and skills which would support development in these
dominant economic sectors. Livestock production is almost exclusively in
the hands of the nomads for whose benefit the education sector made no pro-
portionate provision until recently. To respond to the Government request
to establish facilities where nomads can be trained to improve the quality
of their livestock and to adopt range conservation measures, the second
IDA education project is assisting Somalia to develop training centers for
nomads.
12.       The two secondary technical institutes at Mogadiscio and Hargeisa
have been improved with IDA, UNDP, Unesco and ILO assistance as well as with
aid from various bilateral agencies (Italy, UK, Egypt) and the courses at
the Burao Technical Institute developed with help from the Federal Republic
of Germany are of a satisfactory standard. On the other hand, the Fishery
and Marine Institute and the Italian assisted Institute for Accountants and
Surveyors at Mogadiscio appear to lack purpose and an appreciation of the
type of training which should be provided in relation to future employment
opportunities of the graduates. A comprehensive plan for the development
of technical education and vocational training is an essential prerequisite
to orderly development of this sub-sector of the education system. It is
now being developed with assistance from UNDP and ILO.



APPPENDIX I
Page 4
Technical Education and Vocational Training
13.       All technical education and vocational training institutions
(Chart 4) are at the post-primary level. There are at present five tech-
nical institutes: The Mogadiscio Technical Institute, the Hargeisa Tech-
nical Institute, the Burao Technical Institute, the Fishery and Marine In-
stitute, and the Agricultural Secondary School at Afgoi. There are also
six specialized vocational training institutes: The Technical Institute
for Accountants and Surveyors; the Posts and Telecommunications Institute;
the School of Nursing; the Health Personnel Training Institute; the Animal
Health Institute; and the Range Management School. The overwhelming prob-
lem in this area is lack of equipment and instructors. Under the first IDA
project, the Mogadiscio Technical Institute and the Hargeisa Technical In-
stitute are being upgraded and provided with additional workshops and equip-
ment. So far as the problem of instructors goes, the UNDP/Unesco/ILO four-
year Technical Education and Vocational Training Project began in the 1973-74
school year; it Includes a training program for instructors and teachers of
technical subjects, and is expected to partially meet the manpower require-
ments of technical and vocational education. With bilateral assistance from
the Government of the People's Republic of Korea, an 800-student capacity
Polytechnic is now under construction in Mogadiscio. With bilateral assis-
tance from the USSR, development of about 400-student capacity Fishery In-
stitute is being planned at Kismayo.
Teacher Training
(a) Primary Teacher Training
14.       Two former primary teacher training colleges in Hargeisa and Moga-
discio were closed in 1968, and a primary teacher training college - the
former National Teacher Education Center (NTEC), now called the College of
Education, which was established in 1966 at Afgoi with USAID assistance - was
converted in 1968 into a secondary teacher training college. In 1972, pre-
service primary teacher trainees (250) were again admitted to NTEC for a
two-year post-grade 8 diploma course. Thus, between 1968 and 1972, the
country had no provision for the pre-service training of primary teachers,
a deficiency which has had major consequences for the development of primary
education; in particular, the shortage of qualified teachers has necessitated
the recruitment of secondary school leavers/national service draftees as pri-
mary teachers. In 1972, 750 national service teachers were recruited for a
nine-month period. In 1975, 1,500 were recruited for the same course.
Teacher shortage has also been heightened by the 1975 introduction of com-
pulsory primary education. As a temporary measure Somalia started a one-year
crash teacher training program in 1976 at the new Halane Primary Teacher
Training College which was built under a very tight schedule with the assis-
tance of the second IDA project to meet the urgent need. Nearly 3,000 teach-
ers are now enrolled at this College.



APPPENDIX I
Page 5
15.       The in-service primary teacher training program will be strengthened
and expanded throughout the country to upgrade the teachers trained through
the crash program. The MOE has set up a two-year in-service training course.
Teachers will take the course through correspondence during the school year
and attend classes in existing colleges and schools during the vacation.
(b) Secondary Teacher Training
16.       Secondary teachers are trained at the College of Education.  The
first intake was in 1968 for a four-year program (in which the third year
is spent in teaching practice in secondary schools) leading to the degrees
of Bachelor of Science or Arts in Education.
17.       Recruitment of trainees is from two sources:  primary teachers in
service (para. 15) and secondary school graduates, after an entrance exami-
nation. There are four divisions: education, science and mathematics, so-
cial studies, and languages, and curricula have been developed for the train-
ing of teachers of practical subjects and home economics. The medium of in-
struction is English.
18.       Under the first IDA project, substantial improvement in facilities
at the College of Education has been made, raising its total capacity to 700
students. In addition, a major UNDP/Unesco project has provided technical
assistance at the College.
Higher Education
19.       The National University was established in 1956 as an institution
of higher education in Economics and Law. In 1963/64, it became a University
Institute, providing the full range of requirements for the first two years
of study towards degrees in Law, Economics and Political Science to be granted
after two additional years of studies in Italy mostly at Padua. In 1970, it
was granted legal authority to confer degrees. There are nine faculties at
present: Geology, Engineering, Medicine, Veterinary, Law, Economics, Com-
merce, Chemistry, Agriculture and Education, Entrance is by competitive
examination. The medium of instruction is English and/or Italian, depending
largely on the staff. The 1976 enrollment of 2,200 students is planned to
rise to 3,600 by 1979.
20.       The Italian Government has been the major source of support for the
University for a number of years. Of an estimated 1975/76 budget of So.Shs.
3.5 million, 2.5 million was provided by the Italian Government. However,
most of the staff in the faculties of Law, Economics and Education are now
Somalis. But other faculties are still largely staffed by Italians under
arrangements with the Universities of Padua (Geology), Pisa (Veterinary),
Rome (Medicine), Pavia (Engineering and Chemistry), and Florence (Agricul-
ture).



APPPENDIX I
Page 6
Somali Institute of Development Administration and Management (SIDAM)
21.       The Institute, originally called the Somali Institute of Public
Administration (SIPA), started in 1965 with UNDP assistance. The SIPA was
under the office of Presidency until 1972 when it was placed under the ad-
ministrative responsibility of the Ministry of Culture and Higher Education.
In 1973 the SIPA was renamed as the SIDAM and in the following year it was
placed under the control of the Ministry of Labor and Sports. The SIDAM
is financed by the Government, ILO and UNDP.
22.       The main function of the SIDAM are to provide consultancy and
advisory services for administrative, personnel management, finance and
accounting problems in the public sector, and to run orientation and training
courses for public sector employees. The length of courses ranges from three
months to two years. The SIDAM also runs the Clerical Training Center which
offers a 9-month course in clerical skills such as typing and filing.
Adult Education
23.       The NAEC in Mogadiscio which is attached to the Department of
Nonformal Education of the MOE, is responsible for training, curriculum
development, learning materials production and evaluation for adult education.
As a result of the mass literacy campaign (Appendix II) at least 1,500 adult
education groups have been established and in addition, the Government has
made adult education compulsory for the approximately 50,000 adult nomads
resettled in 1975 in agricultural and fishing communities. A three-year
post-literary basic education program has been introduced, intended to provide
a program functionally equivalent to full primary education. The NAEC is in
the process of broadening the adult education curriculum to include the
teaching of practical skills relevant to various rural economies. The MOE
proposes to establish regional centers to support adult education groups and
to provide practical training to selected adults and school leavers. This
proposal would be supported as a part of the third education project.
Farmer Training
24.       The Ministry of Agriculture operates four Farmer Training Centers
at Bonka, Aburein, Genale, and Jamama. They provide 2-3 month courses to
farmers which include training in poultry keeping, ploughing and cooperative
orgar.ization in addition to techniques of cultivation. The Center at Bonka
also provides in-service training for agricultural field staff. Staff short-
ages have prevented the establishment of effective follow-up in the field
for farmer trainees. The eight agricultural mobile units provided under the
first IDA education project are now in operation to help meet this need. The
mobile units allocated to the regions of Lower Shebelli and Middle Juba are
currently serving three nomad settlements established in those regions.



APPPENDIX I
Page 7
Women's Education
25.       There are 19 Women's Education Centers in Somalia operated by the
MOE with financial assistance from local authorities and from the Ministry of
Interior. However, many of the centers are understaffed and the remainder
have been providing a four-year course in home economics to the urban women.
The Department of Nonformal Education is in the process of drastically re-
ducing the length of the course and changing the content to make it relevant
to village women and to the utilization of local resources. The National
Women's Center in Mogadiscio has begun training instructors for the other
women's centers in the regions and 80 women from the settlement areas as
community workers in a six-month course.
Multi-Purpose Community Training Centers
26.       Three multi-purpose centers financed by the second education pro-
ject are expected to be completed in early 1977 to serve the adult training
needs of the agricultural settlement areas where a number of educational pro-
grams are already being organized. An additional seven centers also financed
under the second education project will serve the training needs of the nomadic
population (para. 11).
Radio Education
27.       The Government is giving high priority to the use of radio in com-
municating with, and educating, the sparsely dispersed Somali population. In
July 1976 two new 75 kw transmitters for Radio Mogadiscio became operational,
enabling the Somali Broadcasting Service (SBS) to achieve 100% coverage
through medium-wave with improved reception. In addition to a number of gen-
eral education progr-ams broadcast by the SBS, an adult education series speci-
fically designed to serve the adult basic education groups was launched in
May 1976 in collaboration with NAEC.



APPPENDIX II
THE NATIONAL LITERACY CAMPAIGN
Introduction
1.        In March 1973, Somalia launched a National Literacy Campaign which
took place in two phases.  During the first phase the campaign concentrated
on the urban and semi-urban areas, while the second phase extended the cam-
paign to the rural areas. The latter was completed in February 1975. The
Government figures show an impressive record of accomplishment for the cam-
paign. Within a short span of two years, over one million persons are re-
ported to have become literate in the Somali language. The literacy rate of
the adult population is now estimated by the Government to be higher than 50%
which compares with a mere 5% i.n 1972.
2.        An important feature of the campaign was that the movement which
started with the sole objective of making the people literate was transformed
into a rural development program with much broader objectives. The issue
Somalia now faces is how to maintain the momentum created by the National
Literacy Campaign.
Written Somali in Administration and in Urban Areas
3.        The decision to introduce written Somali was made early in 1970,
when the new Government promised to develop a script for the Somali lan-
guage. A concrete action began when a National Language Commission was
appointed in January 1971 to write textbooks for primary education, Somali
grammar books, and a basic Somali dictionary. The next important step was
taken when the Supreme Revolutionary Council (SRC) announced in October
1972 the application of a modified Latin alphabet to Somali writing. All
state employees were asked to learn the new script in three months and to sit
for a language test. The majority passed. Thus, since January 1973 Somali
has replaced English and Italian as the official language of the country.
4.        The SRC, encouraged by the result of the Somalization of the ad-
ministrative language, decided to launch a nationwide mass literacy cam-
paign. The objective was to let the mass participate in development acti-
vities through two-way communication. In March 1973, the first phase of
the Literacy Campaign in the urban and semi-urban areas started with the
motto, "if you know, teach. If you do not know, learn."
5.        A National Literacy Committee was set up as a general policy-
making body. It included three Vice Presidents and three Secretaries of
State. Then, a National Implementation Committee was appointed. This
Committee chaired by the Secretary of State for Education was responsible
for the coordination of all the campaign activities. At the district le-
vel, there were District Implementation Committees. The first phase of
the campaign was completed in February 1974. The Ministry of Education
estimates that about 12,000 participated as teachers. They were primary
and secondary school teachers and students, civil servants, and army and
police officers. They participated in the campaign in the afternoon after
their regular work.



APPPENDIX II
Page 2
Rural Development Campaign
6.        Inspired by the success of the urban literacy campaign, the cam-
paign was extended to the rural population in August 1974, under the banner
"Campaign for the Advancement of the Rural People." The objectives of the
second phase of the campaign were broader and included; (a) eradication of
illiteracy among the rural people; (b) public health improvement; (c) animal
health improvement; and (d) census of both people and livestock.
7.        The campaign in the rural areas was difficult to carry out because
the rural population comprising almost 90%2of the total population (3.2 mil-
lion) is scattered in an area of 637,000 k.   Furthermore, over 70% of the
total population were nomads or semi-nomads. This required a much greater
administrative mahinery for the implementation of the second phase than that
necessary for the first phase.
8.        Organization of the Campaign.  A three-week seminar was held in
Mogadiscio to discuss the implementation of the campaign. At the seminar
700 regional and district authorities (there are 16 Regions and 64 Districts
in Somalia) were represented and the Central Government emphasized that they
had primary responsibility for the implementation of the campaign. The rep-
resentatives included the following; (a) all Chairmen of the Regional
Councils; (b) all Chairmen of the District Councils; (c) all Regional Edu-
cation Officers; (d) all District Education Officers; (e) all Headmasters
in the Districts; (f) all Regional and District representatives of the
Political office of the SRC; (g) all Heads of Police Stations of both Regions
and Districts; (h) all Heads of the National Security of both Regions and
Districts; and (i) all Regional Transport Officers.
9.        After the seminar, the organizational framework was developed.
Two national committees of high-level inter-ministerial collaboration, and
regional and district committees whose members were more or less identi-
cal with local councils were established. At the national level, there was
the Central Committee for the Rural Development Campaign (RDC) which was
the policy-making body. It consisted of the Secretaries of State for In-
terior, Health, Livestock, Transport, and Planning, and the General Manager
of the State Printing Agency. The Chairman was the Secretary of State for
Education. The organization responsible for the administrative aspects of
the campaign at the national level was the Central Office for the Rural De-
velopment Campaign. The office was headed by the Director-General of the
Ministry of Education (MOE) and most of the activities were carried out by
the MOE staff. At the regional and district levels, there were the Regional
Committee for the RDC, District Committee for the RDC, and District Inspec-
tion Office. The important feature of the whole movement was that the di-
rect operation began at the district level, and each district was further
divided into smaller geographic units headed by school masters, teachers or
other local leaders.
10.       Campaign Staff - Instructors.  The instructors included school
teachers, state employees, local volunteers and regular school students ex-
cluding the students in grades 8, 11 and 12. Excluded also were all the



APPPENDIX II
Page 3
students in technical and vocational schools. Participation of all others
in the campaign was compulsory. These student-teachers were sent tc a com-
munity in a group of 7 to 15. The communities were asked to give them room
and board. The Government gave them S.Sh. 2 per day as an allowance. A
student-teacher was equipped with a blanket, a textbook, a register, a pen-
cil and a pen, a small water container, a rubber and a razor, a blackboard
in the form of a box for keeping all the other things. The total number of
student-teachers and state employees who participated in the campaign on a
full-time basis was 3,000. An allowance of So.Sh. 4 per day was given to
those who worked outside of their regular work-place.
11.       Teaching Material, Places and Methods.  The only text material for
the campaign was a primer for the nomads produced by the NAEC. This was
written for the nomads but was used for all the rural population which con-
sisted of nomads as well as peasants. During the campaign, a serious shortage
of the textbooks developed. Therefore, the NAEC decided to publish two issues
of a newspaper. About 7,000 copies of each of the two issues were made. But
only one-third of them could be delivered to the various campaign points due
to difficulties in distribution.
12.       The instructors used almost any convenient place as a classroom,
a popular choice being the ground under a shady tree. In some instances,
they had to move with nomads. They used the teaching method used by the
Koranic teachers, recognizing, memorizing, and repeating, in this case, the
Somali alphabets in order.
Results
13.       Through the campaign, about 1.5 million people were treated and
about the same number were vaccinated. Also, about 11 million and 2 million
animal population were treated and vaccinated respectively. The campaign
participants also helped in the headcount for the general census conducted
by the Central Statistical Office.
14.       During the campaign over one million people were enrolled in literacy
classes and some 800,000 passed a test of very simple reading and writing
skills. The campaign was extremely successful in taking Government services
to the people, in many cases for the first time.  Practical results were
widespread, particularly medical vaccination and introduction of the Somali
script. Equally important, but less tangible, results were the realization
of the possibility of change and heightened expectations among the population.
It is these attitudinal changes and the inititation of literacy skills which
provide both an opportunity and. a challenge for the Government. The scale
of the mass campaign cannot be maintained, but the Government is giving ur-
gent priority to ensuring the permanency of and reinforcement of what has
already been achieved. For this purpose, Somalia started the "permanent
literacy campaign" in August 1975. To ensure success for this new campaign,
a provision of appropriate and sufficient reading materials for the teachers
and the literate mass is required.



APPPENDIX III
HEALTH TRAINING
The Health System
1.        Somalia is in the process of developing a tiered health delivery
system consisting of a network of regional health offices 1/ in each of the
16 regions, extending care through 84 district health offices 2/ (including
the 14 districts in Mogadiscio) to 165 dispensaries 31 at the village level.
Currently, only about half of the district health offices are functioning;
the rest may have buildings and/or equipment but no staff.
2.        The National Health Plan (1974-78) aims at providing an integrated
health service with emphasis on preventive and promotive care and oriented
towards rural penetration in support of rural development. Somalia, like
other developing countries, has high prevalence of preventable communicable
diseases with malnutrition as an underlying cause. Preventive measures be-
come doubly difficult with the nomadic nature of the population.
3.        To achieve its objectives, the Government plans to: (a) upgrade the
16 regional health offices by providing each with a minimum complement of
health staff 4/ and equipment; (b) establish 84 fully staffed and equipped
1/   A regional health office consists of a regional hospital with 100 or
more beds; one or more specialized hospital (TB, leprosy, mental,
etc.); one or more health centers providing maternal and child health
services, out-patient clinic and environmental health; and supervising
and providing referral services to 3-5 district health offices within
the region. The regional health office is under the charge of a re-
gional medical officer who serves as the director of the regional hos-
pital, is a specialist in a certain medical field, and administers
and supervises all the curative, preventive and promotive care within
the region.
2/   A district health office consists of a hospital with approximately
20-50 beds and provided with a public health wing that renders
maternal and child health services, out-patient care and environ-
mental health. Ideally, it should be headed by a medical officer;
in cases where there is none, it is under the charge of a medical
assistant.
3/   Dispensaries are health posts at the village level that provides only
curative services through a dresser who has had only "on-the-job"
training. A trained traditional birth attendant may be available.
4/   At the regional level, it is planned to have: a regional medical
director; 2 or 3 hospital doctors; 1 regional nursing officer and
a deputy; 15 qualified nurses per 100 beds; a health inspector and
a regional laboratory technician.



APPPENDIX III
Page 2
district health offices;l/ (c) upgrade about 100 of the 165 dispensaries
to the level of a rural health unit in those villages with more than 2,000
population with a catchment area of 10-15,000.2/ The concept is to provide
primary health care at the village level, referring more complicated cases
to the district level and furt:her referring cases requiring specialist care
to the regional hospital.
4.        The Government further plans to establish and/or improve supporting
services such as the central public health laboratory, regional health labora-
tories, a biological laboratory and specialized hospitals. The health budget
was So.Sh. 35.3 million in 1974; So.Sh. 42.5 million in 1975 and So.Sh.
49.0 million in 1976 which was 6.6%, 7.2% and 7.1% of the total Government
expenditure for the three years respectively. These ratios compare satisfac-
torily with those prevailing in Africa where generally the health budget
absorbs some 5% of the total Government budget.
Health Manpower Requirements
5.        Shortage of health personnel is one of the critical problems faced
by Somalia, and is aggravated by the heavy concentration of health facilities
and personnel in the urban areas (Tables 1-A and 1-B). To solve this disparity,
the Government plans to establish 21 more district health offices in addition
to the 63 existing ones, increase the number of hospital beds by 2,000 and
establish 30 more public health wings in the district health offices to extend
preventive and promotive services to the rural areas (Table 1-C). Such an ex-
pansion would make the shortage of personnel even more acute.
6.        The envisaged expansion of health services would require, over the
next 10 years, approximately 800 national medical doctors,3/ around 2,000
trained nurses,4/ 330 sanitarians, 350 laboratory technicians, 150 pharmacy
assistants, 70 anesthetist assistants, and 50 x-ray technicians (see Tables
3-5). The availability of qua:Lified nurses is important, considering that
1/   At the district level, the staff would consist of: a district medical
officer; 1 district hospital nurse; 1 district community nurse, 2-3
MCH nurses, a sanitarian and a laboratory technician.
2/   Dispensaries are to be staffed by 1 nurse-midwife, 1 dresser and 1
sanitarian to enable it to provide comprehensive community health care.
3/   It is estimated that there are 135 qualified Somali doctors trained
abroad and 92 expatriates.
4/   According to WHO standards, there should be at least one community
nurse per 5,000 population and 15 nurses per 100 beds; on these
basis Somalia with 3.2 m. in 1976 and about 4 m. in 1986 and 5,323
beds in 1976 and about 8,000 in 1986 would need 1,435 nurses in
1976 and 2,000 In 1986.



APPPENDIX III
Page 3
EXISTING AND PlANNED HEALTH CARE FACILITIES AND STAFF
Table 1-A
Existing Facilities (December 1974)
Number of
Hospitals       Number of    Number of        Number of
Region                  and              Beds      Dispensaries       MCH 1/
Infirmaries                                    Centers
Mogadiscio                      5            2,670             17             7
Lower Shebelli                  4              150             23             4
Middle Shebelli                 5               114            11             2
Lower Juba                      6              310             20             3
Gedo                            2               35             12             1
Bay                             3              126             17             2
Bakol                           2               68             4              1
Hiran                           5              198            12              1
Galgudud                        4               42              7             1
Mudug                           4              106              8             1
Bari                            6               85              7             1
T/Dheer                         4              360              4             1
W/Galbed                        6              863             16             1
Sanag                           3               85             4              1
Total                          59            5,212            162 2/         27 3/
Note:  1/  Maternal and Child Care Centers
2/ Temporary buildings 200
3/ Recent figures show that as of July 10, 1976, there were
43 MCH Centers with staff and equipment.



APPPENDIX III
Page 4
Table 1-B
Distribution of Staffs by Regions (December 1973)
CATEGORIES OF STAFF
Laboratory X-Ray Anestheti.
Nurses  Sanitarians  Midwives Technician Tech. Assistant
1. Banadir
(a)  General Hospital        103         -           24          8        2        2
(b)  Forlanini Hospital       56         1            -          3        1        -
(c)  Martini Hospital        133         -           34          5       -         1
(d)  TB Center                -          I            -          -        3        -
(e)  Dispensaries             75         4           22          -       -         -
(f)  MCH Centers              18         -            -          -       -         -
2.  Lower Shebelli               32         4            8          -        1         -
3.  Central Shebelli             32         3            2          1        -         -
4.  Lower Juba                   47         2           11          2        1         1
5.  Gedo                          -         -            -          -        -         -
6.  Bakol                         8         -            I          -        -         -
7.  Bay                          24         1            6          1        1         -
8.  Hiran                         18        1           18          3        -         -
9.  Galgudud                      10        -            3          -        -         -
10.  Mudug                         L1        -            5          1        1         -
11.  Nugal                        13         -            4          -        -         -
12.  Sanag                         7         1            2          -        -         -
13.  Bari                         18         1            8          -        1         -
14.  Togdheer                     47         3            6          2        -         1
15.  Hargeisa                    118        18            6          8        5         2
Total                       770        40          160         34       16         7
Table 1-C
Planned Health Care Facilities
and Health Manpower Projections
Period         No.        Staff
1.  Planned Hospitals                  1974-78         21
2.  Planned Beds                       1974-78       2000
3.  Planned Maternal and
Child Health Centers               1974-78         30
4.  School of Nursing                  1974-78          1 (Element E.2)
5.  Planned Staff:
i) Nurses                                                     1980
ii) Midwives/Ph. Midwives                                       376
iii) Lab. Technicians                                            109
iv) Pharmacist Technicians                                       94
v) Anesthetist Assistants                                      94
vi) X-ray Technicians                                            30
vii) Sanitarians                                                 100



APPPENDIX III
Page 5
45% of the population is under 15 years of age with a high infant and child
mortality and morbidity rates; this implies the need to improve maternal
and child health services. Records show that there are about 750 nursing
personnel, only 450 of whom are trained; 50% of these are concentrated in
Mogadiscio and 20% in Hargeisa. Of equal importance are sanitarians, as
the high infant mortality is a sensitive index of the poor environmental
conditions, particularly in the rural areas.
Health Personnel Training
7.        To meet the demands for trained health personnel, the Government
has taken the following steps:
8.        Medical.  A medical faculty was established in the National Uni-
versity in 1973 which offers a four-year medical course. Admission require-
ments are 10 years of schooling, 6 months service in the army and 1 year
national service. The curriculum has public health emphasis geared to the
rural areas. Intake is 45 students. The majority of the teaching staff
are Italians which accounts for the considerable turnover rate and lack of
continuity in the course offerings.
9.        Nursing and Midwifery Training.  Three separate institutions have
been established for this type of training: the Health Personnel Training
Institute (HPTI) in 1959; the Hargeisa School of Nursing (HSN) in 1964; and
the Mogadiscio School of Nursing (MSN) in 1970. Admission requirements used
to be 8 years of schooling (intermediate leavers) with the nursing course
reduced to 2 years to hasten production; beginning November 1976, primary and
intermediate schools will be reduced to 6 years.
10.       The HPTI basic nursing curriculum is oriented to community nursing,
whereas the HSN and the MSN are geared to hospital nursing. All the schools
offer post-basic courses--ophthalmological nursing in the HPTI, midwifery in
the HSN, and tutor training in the MSN. WHO provides technical assistance
to the 3 schools; there are currently 6 WHO nursing educator advisors;
UNICEF/WHO also provides special equipment and textbooks.
11.       A recent report recommended that the basic nursing course be made
uniform in all three schools to prepare graduates both for hospital and com-
munity nursing. It further recommended that specialty courses in midwifery,
surgical nursing, anaesthesiology, etc., should be offered as post-basic
courses. In view of this recommendation, the Government plans to merge the
HPTI and the MSN.
12.       About 450 trained nurses have graduated by the 3 schools by 1976;
in addition, there are 39 trained abroad of whom 32 are in the service. The
HSN has graduated 22 post-basic nurse midwives and there are 17 undergoing
post-basic tutor training in Mogadiscio. Because of the small number of
trained nurses, majority of nursing positions are filled by auxiliaries with
no formal training.



APPPENDIX III
Page 6
13.       Training of Other Categories of Health Personnel.  Supportive
health personnel like sanitarians, laboratory technicians, x-ray techni-
cians, pharmacist assistants, anesthetist assistants, ophthalmological
nursing, health superintendents, and health inspectors are trained at the
HPTI. There are no reliable records to show the number of graduates; an edu-
cated guess may be from 1963 to 1976, 110 laboratory technicians, 59 x-ray
technicians, 62 pharmacist assistants, 11 anesthetist assistants, and 19
medical assistants. The number of sanitarians is unknown although there are
40 in the service, about 29 to be graduated in 1976, and 20 taking the health
superintendents course (Table 2-A and 2-B).
14.       The HPTI buildings will soon be demolished to give way to the
Mogadiscio Port Authorities. A new building would have to be constructed
to carry on the important task of training the various categories of health
personnel needed by the health service.
15.       The Government plans to merge the two nursing programs of the HPTI
and the MSN and to locate the new HPTI building adjacent to the MSN Compound.
This would be of mutual benefit as it will enable the two schools to share
facilities and teaching staff and enrich the curricula. The two schools
would be part of a health sciences complex, with the faculty of medicine,
the Digfa General Hospital and the Maternity and Pediatric Hospital close by.



Table 2-A
Enrollment at Hlealth Personnel Training Institute (IIPTI) 1975/76
Opthal. Traditional
Nursing    Lab. Tech.    Sanitarian    Asst.Pharm.   X-Ray Tech.   Hlealth Supt.  Nursing    Birth                    Total
Attendant
First Year          -            20              -               15             -                             -          -               35
Second Year        34            20             29              20             17               -             -          -              120
In-Service Trng.                                                                               20            15         40               75
(6 mo. course) (9 mo. course)  1 mo. course
Total                                                                                                                   3 x a year    230
Table 2-B
Total Graduates of HPTI Including Expected Output, 1976
Nursing   Lab. Tech.   Sanitarian   Asst.Pharm.   X-Ray Tech.   Health Supt.   Med. Assts.  Anaesthesiology
Assistants
231         110            70            62              54            20                19               11
Post-Basic Nursing Graduates, 1976
Hargeisa (nurse midwives)                             22
Mogadiscio (nurse tutors) expected
output                                             17
H



APPENDIX IV
Page 1
IDA-ASSISTED EDUCATION PROJECTS
COMPLETED AND IN EXECUTION
First Education Project (Credit No. 247-SO)
1.        Basic information on the Credit and the project is as follows:
Amount                   -        US$3.3 million
Signing Date             -        June 3, 1971
Effective Date           -        November 18, 1971
Closing Date:  Original -         December 31, 1975
Final    -         September 30, 1976
Appraisal Report No.
PE-23a                 -        May 7, 1971
Project Composition -
a)   Lafole College of Education (extension);
b)   Eleven Secondary Schools (two new and extension
to nine);
c)   Two Technical Institutes (extension);
d)   Eight Mobile Agricultural Units; and
e)   Financial and technical assistance in project
implementation and education development.
Project Objectives -
a)   Increase the enrollment capacity at secondary
schools, technical institutes and the teacher
training school to meet estimated manpower
requirements;
b)   Assist the spread of agricultural knowledge
to farmers in isolated areas;
c)   Diversify and introduce pre-vocational subjects
in the general secondary school curriculum;
d)   Improve the quality of technical education;
e)   Develop a system for identifying training needs
and for upgrading vocational skills;



APPENDIX IV
Page 2
f)   Institute a mechanism for policy analysis
through the use of a tracer system; and
g)   Develop local capacity for design and imple-
mentation of school facilities.
2.        A project completion mission was carried out and its findings
are that the project has been generally successful in meeting its objectives.
The secondary school and teacher training facilities have proved to be more
urgently required than was apparent at the time of project appraisal; agri-
cultural training, technical training and trade testing are proceeding well;
the secondary school science laboratories are fully utilized; and the Somali
capacity for project implementation has been greatly enhanced through this
first experience. The project has over-fulfilled its enrollment capacity
targets by 19%, making 6,900 teaching and training places available at the
14 project institutions compared with the 5,790 places considered necessary
at appraisal. On balance this increase was justified, for the original
manpower projects were conservative. Substantial activity has taken place
with respect to trade standards and trade testing. Standards have been
devised for 42 trades under the supervision of a National Supervisory
Technical Committee, and about 3,200 workers have been tested for compe-
tence in their present jobs.
3.        The completion mission reported problems in two areas:  (a)
meeting the objectives of the pre-vocational curriculum and (b) coordinat-
ing the technical education and vocational training programs. The cur-
riculum and syllabi for pre-vocational and science subjects have been
developed as part of the project, but problems exist in the introduction
of pre-vocational subjects as a part of the general secondary education
because teachers in most of these subjects have yet to be provided. In
particular, as regards home economics, women constitute a very small
fraction of the student population and, in fact, prefer to study mathe-
matics or sciences. When a pre-vocational subject is not directly linked
to a job skill, the students' perception of its value for study is minimal
and does not increase regardless of the length of pre-vocational exposure.
The prejudice against manual labor does not seem to be diminishing despite
the introduction of pre-vocational subjects. On part (b) above, little
progress has been made on the establishment of a Technical and Vocational
Training Council or a tracer system which will require the coordination
of more than one Ministry.
4.        Project buildings are basically functional and economical, as well
as simple in design. In some cases, the arrangement of buildings on sites
could have been improved. Some minor design defects have been eliminated
in construction for the second education project (now under implementation),
and improvements have been made to specifications. The low quality of many
materials used in civil works is attributable to inadequate technical
appraisal of procurement by the Government importing agency from which



APPENDIX IV
Page 3
contractors are required to procure all materials. As for equipment, a
number of items have been delivered without operating or installation
instructions or with instructions in a language not understood by school
staff.
5.        The total project cost, about So.Sh. 28.1 million or about
US$4.5 million equivalent, exceed the appraisal estimate by about 10%
in local currency, but by about 23% in US dollars due to the change in
the exchange rate since appraisal. Construction costs exceed appraisal
estimates (including contingency allowances) by about US$1.0 million
equivalent, which is almost entirely due to the greatly increased amount
of new facilities constructed with the total construction area exceeding
the appraisal estimate by 80%. These construction cost increases were
offset to some extent by lower than estimated costs for mobile agri-
cultural units, furniture and technical assistance.
6.        The review of the first education project in Somalia leads to
three main recommendations for future operations in the sector. When
discussing future educational investment, full consideration should be
given as to whether it would be more valuable to support pre-vocational
equipment, supplies and teachers, or to improve instruction in academic
subjects such as mathematics, sciences and languages. The Somali expe-
rience seems to suggest that the process of practicalization of secondary
education should be gradual and cautious.
7.        Secondly, it is recommended that the review by supervision
missions be more thoroughly executed. Due to manpower and time constraints,
none of the supervision missions visited a project site outside the capital
or nearby Afgoi. The problems of communication between isolated areas and
the capital would make an on-site visit to a reasonable sampling of project
locations by supervision missions very desirable, despite transportation
problems.
8.        Thirdly, it was found that international competitive bidding for
civil works contracts was unwarranted for the type of small-scale, simple
buildings included in the project. Bidding from foreign contractors produced
negligible results - only one intention to register for pre-qualification was
received - and no contracts were awarded to foreign firms. This experience
suggests that a future Bank Group-assisted education project in Somalia
requires careful review to ascertain the most economic and efficient method of
bidding for construction contracts.



APPENDIX IV
Page 4
Second Education Project (Credit No. 511-SO)
9.        Basic information on the Credit and the project is as follows:
Amount                      -    US$8.0 million
Signing Date                -    September 19, 1974
Effective Date              -    December 19, 1974
Closing Date                -    June 30, 1980
Appraisal Report No.
438a-SO                   -    July 22, 1974
Project Composition -
a)   Academy of Somali Studies
b)   Primary Teacher Training School
c)   Eleven Secondary Schools (extension)
d)   Fishery and Marine Institute (extension)
e)   Ten Nomadic Training Centers
f)   Financial and technical assistance in
project administration and fishery and
marine training
Project Objectives -
a)   Promote basic education and reduce illiteracy
by establishing a primary teacher training
school and an Academy of Somali Studies;
b)   Improve secondary education by the addition
of facilities to schools to enable agricultural,
science, commerce and fisheries to be taught;
c)   Provide basic general and skill training to
nomads; and
d)   Ensure availability of key personnel to execute
the project.
10.       A characteristic of the project implementation in Somalia is its
flexibility to respond to changing requirements. Although the new primary
teacher training school was scheduled to be completed in the fourth year
of the project period, the implementation was accelerated to meet the
greatly increasing primary school enrollment after the 1975 introduction
of compulsory primary education. The school opened in the fall of 1976.



APPENDIX IV
Page 5
Also, three of the ten nomadic training centers are being constructed
for nomads who were settled after 1973-74 droughts to serve as community
education and training centers. These three centers are expected to be
completed in 1977, and the implementation of the remaining has started
early 1977.
11.       Construction of the Academy of Somali Studies and the Fishery
and Marine Institute is expected to start in the middle of 1977 and
during the third quarter of 1977 respectively. The former date accords
with the appraisal schedule and the latter is about six months behind
schedule. Civil works contracts for five secondary schools are about to
be signed; for the others, contracts are expected to be awarded in the
fall 1977. It is expected that contractors may not tender for some
schools in difficult and remote areas of the country. It has been
agreed to test the market and then, if necessary, review the possibilities
of force accounts execution of civil works.
12.       Procurement of furniture and equipment is progressing on scheudle.
As for specialist services required for the Fishery and Marine Institute
and the Project Unit (i.e., architect), recruitment is underway, but delays
have occurred.
Lessons Applied to Third Education Project
13.       The most important lesson from past experience is to delay pro-
viding further assistance to the introduction of practical subjects in
secondary schools until the effects of such introduction become more
positively known (para. 6). For this reason, the third project places
top priority on relatively simple, but most obviously needed areas in the
coming years -- spread of basic and adult education with improved quality,
and manpower provision in specialized areas.
14.       Past experience of education projects implementation has also
indicated that it may be more efficient to procure civil works through
the competitive bidding according to the government normal procedures, or
to carry them out on force accounts rather than through formal international
competitive bidding (paras. 8 and 12).
15.       To ensure successful physical and education implementation of
the project, a technical assistance program larger than in the previous
projects has been included. The government was asked to present a plan
for technical assistance including terms of reference and method of recruit-
ment before negotiation to avoid delays (para. 13).
16.       Finally, the Association and the government have agreed that in
the future, supervision missions will have a longer stay in the field and
efforts will be made to visit institutions in outlying areas (para. 7).



COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                                   ANNEX 1
MAY li.1977
I2               I          I          I                I         I    2   I           S      I                       I          a       I       I
I GNP/ t 2 GNP   22 TGTALIZ   OF PUBLIC I                     I        I          iPRI. sAV.PRI.   2                2       lIEU   2
: CAPITA: DEVOYEDIPUSLIC I EDUCATIUN    ILITER.  I PRI,  iCOMPLE-  :STU, 2SCH.TEACHiPROGRE3S-1 SEC. :STU-  :                                 2
I   Al a 70T EDU.I  EXP. I RECURREN4T    IAC 2ty               ENROLLtTION        IDENTS&SALARY INSION RATE [ENRULL:OENTS2mIGMER:
EMARKETI (PUBLICIDEVOTED2EXP ALLOCATED.   RATE IRATIO IRATE FORuPER   3RELATION IFROM PRI.,RATIO aPER   :ENROLL:
IPUP, iPRICESi EXP.    ITO    I              TO:       2(2 OF   I NET   IPRI.SCM.ITEACHt TO GNP/ :10 SEC,.                E      TAC-RTO
YRaMILLS., (USS)1  ONLY)   SEDOU.  aPRI. SEC, HI,2ADULTS)f (X)  .,CYCLEMI)ER    I CAPITA   I  (1                           aM (2) 21       S (2    I
I       a        I          I                        I            I          I       I                     I            I        I       1        2
is j   (21 2  (31          (~41   0      (5)       I (6)    2 (7)   :  (8)    I (91  a  (Ii))    I (II)            :1121   1(13)  .1(1)   I
ADVANCED
AUS;HIMIA        73    7.51  9,421o       4.3      9,9      471)  250   200    99        98        93         26        2.0        99         51       19       8.00
CANADA           72  2z,qE 6,190E         7.7    09,4       30    38    39      98       89        98         24        2.1)        99        82       17       9.0 0
GEAqMANY F.REP0.72  o2.OE 6,268E          9.2    14.2       ...  74** 26        99       91        99         33        .          99         91       Z2     I7.OOCV
JAP'AN           72  209.7E 4, 078E    '4.3    2o.?         39    38    02      919      99D        99C       25C       2.0L       99C        9'D      201    28.00D
NETHERLANDS    72   13.51 5,2%8E          8.5    29.20;   32    45    19        99       95         95        29        3.1)        97        73       20     11.00
NE.- ZEALAND    7 3    3.OE 4,310E        5.2    ...        39    29    29       99      99         99        26        ,           99        67       19     29 .0 0
NURN A Y         72    4. 11E 5,86oE      7.0    15.2       58    23    13      99       99        918        20        1.9        99         76       19      11.00
SWEDEN4          73    8.21 7,240E        8.9    06,U       36    14    13      99       99        99         17        ...        4)        es        Ito    30 .0 0
U.K.             72  55.9E 3,S90E         6 .5    12.7      26    39    22      98       99         *..       26        2, 0        .,.       83       17     11.00
U.S.A.           72 211.9E 6,670E         6.0    05,9        ...  73*x 27       99       99         99        2 5 U     2.0         ...       93       1911    29.0 0
0911(1            9~~~~~~.11E 2,u9oE  2,2    11.2     591   291   141    82A       951         .        321       .           70A       58Y       31    11.D00
IRILANU)         72    3.11 2,320E        5.2    13.90    93        1     4      8       9         9A         3                     5          5x      19.      7.O0A
PURIUGAL         72    9.OE 1,6301.9...                                                             ...       .........65..                            ... 7...
ROMANIA          75  21,3   1 ,300        4.0      6.9      36    19    13      98        1011)     ...       21       ...         98         09       22     1 0.0 0
SPAIN            71  35.1E 2,490E         2.'4B   152A    499Y  22Y  ISV    94A          91A         .        30        ...,                  29A      30       6.OOA
ALGEI            75   115. 7    7 78      7.5               910   32G   1BG    30        76        6?E        92E       6.0G       491        17       25       9.00
B4ENIN           73    3.0O.    120E      5. 3    32,0      47    23    10       it      3208       ID8       SOS      as.0 Oa      '438       78      398      0.4911
BLITSimANA       79    0.7      290        ' . 0    20,0    38    20    1s      2s       700        75        Is        'i. 0      24         13X      18       0.30Y
RIlA'JNDI        79    3.6        90      2.51   29,9q      47R  41R   12R    10         200        3(?       38       1). 0        19         2X      18       1,0
CAMEROJUN        73     71         o5E    5.9    20.0       38Y  29Y  171                 9          .         00 ... 74.,D                    9       ?3C1    0.90EV
C.A.R0.          70    1.71    210E        9,09   20.0    '56       9  ..        .. .     64CY      25        651 .c                1          5C0    2760    o,07Y
CHALI            75    4. tE    2001       3. 0    2 0.0k    78    22             15    29X0Y    00          650Y    15.1)          0         208Y   s0        0.0181
CUNGUCO)         79    1,3      '470      6,0    19.3    940    32    21        50?    1330        63         63        6.0        '40        330      22       3.90
LOll')I          70   36.4      280       15.3      *,.    29    36    29       40O       740      95         90       ..          6          390      28     11.00
ErMLUPIA         73  27.21    1001E       3.1    20,1)      92    24    18        7      17C        92        50u       3,0u       13          2       30       0 .2 VI
GA8ILN           73    u.5   1, 960E      5.0    20,6       25      4    11      ..,    189081    2sC         46C       5.0         18A       20C      21C      1.4001
6HANA            71    9.6E    430E       I.    24.4DR   381)  150  231)    . ..    536XCY    62              IOCI    ...           29        lix      1 611    0.7481Y
IVUIli  L-IA3T    72    b.91    4601    ('.3    29. 7       278Y 338Y13IS        9A      52        574       46        I. .,                  10      25        1.2091)
KENYA            73   12.91    2001       6.49   27."       63    II1    1 1     90      73         ...       90         .1         19        12       23       1.03B1
LESUrHUI         75    2.2      14IOE        2. OP  23,0    499    1 8    20     40      85        s0         52        7.1)N      81        1I0       26       1.00 
LIBERIA          7s5   1.5      9 10      2.9 2413.2        27    1 5    21)     73      58         ,,,       35i       2. 0        ...       1 2      2b       I .I OA Y
MADAGASCAR       75    8.,.     080       3,2    22.1       5i    24    25      40       680       30         63       15.0        48          00     26        1 .0 0
MALAWI           74    9. 9     1 30      3.2    20.9                     .,I-  25      560X      61)        S0        7.U        9 0         'Ix    2 0       u . "o,C 
MALL             70    5.61       801      '4,6N   02,3     368  S28   128    11)1        189      22A        40A      14.1)8      37A         Q A     17A      U).16AY
MA URI TAN IA    70    1.3L   290E1     9.5    21,1'i        ....                I"      158        ...I      22         ...,                  3      294        .
MAURITI US       72    0.91    5801        3. 7    2 1 .70D    7                Oo ,8    86         99        32         .          .         30       30       1.47CY
MOU'LCCU         79   t6.3      390       S.OC   16, 5      44    97      9     267      590       22         37        ...        it         231     20       2.00u
N16ERIA9         72   73, 111    027F     3.2N   . .,       90A  29A  209    ...         39011    .. .        5411      ...        . . .       9      2OCY    0.3715
RWANDA           73    4.01       801     3.2C   28.00   .   I....               23      52         . ..      51        ...        . ..        2       1 3     O.Z3C1
SENEGAL          7 1    94.9E    3301     9.09   22,50DR  389   929    56    00          308        ...       46         .          .,        iII     25        1.71CY
SIERRA LEONE   73    e.9E    190E         3 .9    2 3,9 4   31    36    30       25?     390       95         32        9.01       6831)              2 1      0.5380
SUMAL IA         75    3. 2     10 0      3,70)   1 0,.80    49 1)  60   191)   50?      340       86         353      1 1. 0      6'          3      1 5      0.11)
SUDAN            72   15.2E    2301       4.5    23, 2      43    29    28       1 5     150       75         45        9, 0       2 s        12      20       1,.231
SWAZILAND        70    u.5      970       3,8      ---      38    31    19      50       73        71         38        3.8        52t        29      22       1 .0 0
TANZANIA        71)  19,91    2601        5.29   17,0       36    ...   2 2     63       990        ...       99        ...          7         2      221C     0.3 0
TUNISIA          73    5.51;   6501       6.3    e3,4       37   493    185    55        72        8 1        491       6.1)       3          19       -       3,00
UGANDA           70   01I.21    2'40E     5.29   07,61R   000  220  250    259           OBOCI    ...         36        ...        1496        011   a I       0.5881
OPPER VOLTA    72    5.81r    901         9.0    I.0        65   I30      6       S      1 0       ...        95i      28,0        20          2      23       0.0081
ZA I iE          73  29.1IE    150E       5.2CM c      -    54C   17C   291    1s        63        30         49A       6.0        93          8      24       0.9681
ZAMBIA           74    9.8      520       5 .3    1'l.2     39    20    1 6     43       88         00        97        9,0        20         13      22        1.0 0
CENIRAL AMERICA AND 1H1 CARIBBEAN
CUSIA  RICA  72~-- 2.91L   891       52      2,         7    25    1 2     u'       86CY      65         29        3,1)       58         22CY    25      12. 11 CY
DUMINICAN RL.P.72    4.61    0.50E         3.0    13,9      42    29    22      St       au         17        50        3.1)0      63         1)3, 5    29      7 . 00
EL SALVADUR    75    3.81    920E         3.6    23,8 a       1     5    22     608      651        ...       39CY      ...        39         1381    21CY    9.358Y
GUAIEMALA        73    5,31    480 0E .9    16,4            5 5    23    19    947       604       26        'SS        3.0        69          8       25       9.091
HA I I           7,7   4.5L    170E       0.4      6,60    601   12       8     200      2 2       29S?       4s        95.0       5o          3       23       1,00?
MLUNDURAS        72 Z    -SE    3'I OE     3.9    26 .SD    69    1 3    1 8     52      828        28a       3 7       6,0         i5        14X      1 4      3, 00
JAMAICA          72    2.0 OE,2I90E       6.5Y   19,7       331   220    71    86       106XY       ...       52          .         ..        32XY    29        4.79Y
MEXICO           70  57,9E1 1,"90E        2.6      9 . 3    54    214   12      76       70 I       I1        46        3.         6          19      213       6.32cy
NICARAGUA        74    2.01E   6701        2.5    111,Z     62    13    1 3     57       65        22         37        2.0        93         17       29       T.00
TRINIDAD & T. 72I   1.11 IT7"01           5.      08.9      53    27    0 2     911      958        8 7       39        'i,1)      15         49       a 5      2.56AY
50111H AMERICA
;ULI7VIA         7 6      A.      ' sF     5.0    17.51........                  38       0'"       290       24        SF          ,          40      280a      ,
BRAZIL           75 107. I  1,O1I o        5.0    12,9      421   201    37L  69A          '.o      ., .      , Icy      ,           ,        26G      ISCY    6.008
CHILE            72   10.91    830E        '4.hY  10,6AY  36Y  014   l1.Y    ..,    1120IXDY                   78 ...               .,        4a000   ...       *...
COLUMBIA         70S  23.11    5(01        4 .'    11,.9    35    11)   eV       73       67       241        i6        410         90        17       19       9, 00
ECUADOR          72    6,91    480E        3.    e277C    951)Y 4205  10f)Y  69           72        ...       38        4,           ,        1         9       99781
GUYANA      ~~~714   Q,8    S00       SO8N  1 , 70    47    35    14        839      92X        39        31        6.         1 9       62X      29       1.00
PARAGUAY         74    2.5       500       2, .   00t.'i    Ss   t03    22       81       02e       26        30        1.9         65        17       12       5.00
PERU             70i  14.91    740E    49,5    24 . i )    50    22    IS5    72          80       3i.                  3.0        -to        30       2301   12.00
VENEZUELA        73   22, 6E 1,960E        4,.b   29,9      301)  280   2,1)    77A       80        ...          ~      2.9          .        33       1. 2.63CY



COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS   (CaNTD)                                     ANNEX I  PAGE 2
MAY 11.1917
8       I       I                  I                I        S        I         I       I           I           I       8      8        I
I  GNP/ I I GNP  S% TOTALIK  Of PUBLIC I                  I        I         sPRI. 1AV.PRI.  I                       ISEC 
a    CAPITAS DEVOTEDIPUSLIC I EDUCATION    I LI1TER- iPRI. sCONPLE- #STU- sSCH.TEACHIPROGRESS-s SEC. ISTU- I
o      Al  I TO EDU.1  EXP. 2 RECURRENT    RACY           ,ENROLL8TION       aDENTUISALARY INmION RATE tENROLLiDENT3:HIGHER:
I       aMARKETI (PUSLIC.DEVOTEDtEXP ALLOCATED.   RATE iRATIO IRATE FORsPER  #RELATION aFROM PRI.,RATIO #PER  JENROLLI
POP, aPRICEs: EAP.    iTO   :            TO,       sCX Of  : NET  sPRI.SCH.sTEACHI  TO GNP/ ITO SEC.  I NET  ITEACH- RATIO)
YRiMILLS.m  CUSS)i ONLY)  I  EDU,  IPRI. 3EC. MI,SADULTS)i CX)  sCVCLE(%)sER    i CAPITA   i   Mx                  I CS)  sER    I  M    I
I       I       I          I        a                I        I       I          S             I          I     2            I      I
I (1) is  (2) a  (3)    a  (4)  s          (5)         Ca()    a(7)  sCO)    a (9) *  CIO)    I Cil)            s(12)  IC13) UC14)   I
ASIA AND OCEANIA
AFGHANISTAN    74  ~~16.3  110 .       .39P  23P  Lap    10                   26X       2*       41        5.48       78         ex     al      1.00
BANGLADESH      73  76.2e    lOOE       1.2   20.2      ,,          *      23       sa        .         a       ..         ...       23X    28         .
CMINACIAINAN) 13  15.7E   SIDE          3.2    84,0     28    1    2       8?      59 6      94        40      14,         84        AIC     26     20.OOC
LNOCA           It 595.bE    140E      Z,6Kv  ..                    .,    29 a      79K      ...       43A      ...        ...       28K     20AY    4.0KAY
INDOUNESIA      14 13oF        220C     3.9F  I1l.F   69   at   1o         608      79K      43        30       2 . OG     52        19K     14       2.00
IRAN            73 133.11  8,250        3.3    12.6     SOB  186   123   s0         77       14A       32       s,0a       BOA       24      32       4.32CY
IRAQ            72  10.AE 1,1(0E       6,7   16.3DR .. ....   26                   61CY      ...       22       .,          .,       ZXCY  2b         6.2ScN
JURDAN          73   2.6L   4300        7.0     8,8    52   Is   21    59           91K      76        18       s.o        84        sox    22        4.00
KOREA           75  3S,3      530      2.9    16,uR   65   35        2     920    104X       98       52        3.5        77       55K      38a     7.8
LEBANON         72    S.1 I .070E       3.5    1A.0    3 9   40    10    66         86       65        19       2.0        63        26U     25      23.00
MALAY31A        74  11.7      680       6.4   a8,o      44   31   11    60C         96F      9 0       32       4.OD       83F       44F     27F      3.OOF
OMAN            72   0,7E 1,660E        t.7N   3,0      96      -   -      20       24X      99        33       7.0                  0.4X    9         .
PAKISTAN        75  o9.0      13oE      1.6    16.2     45   25   1o    21          47K      5)0       39       2.0        ..        17)     le       6.100
PAP'UA N.G.     75S   2.6     410       5.6    16.1     38 a   1    2 4    32       577      73P       31      81.0        90        12X?    24       0.90?
PHILIPPINES    7 4  41.4E   330E    2.5    14,9         73   15   82    87         104K      ...       *)4     15.0        ...       46K     ...    21 .00
SINGAPOIRE      72   2.ZE 2,240E        3,1   16.2      44   31   15       75A      96Y      72A       33        ...       99A       57Y     24       8.25T
SYRIA           7S   7.4      660      -3. 6   6,9      39   25   26       53       89       70        35       2.0        92        45      21      12.00
THAILAND        73  40.70    310E    4.0NF 20.7F    65         4   IS    82        87X       93C       32       3 . 4)U    91C       28K     24      2.00
TURKEY          72  37.9D   600D        ...   13.ODR .......                .       o5Kcy    ...       I4DY     ,..        ...       22XY    27DY   5.3IBY
YEMEN           73   6.4E   1800        0.5     4,0    45P  21P  23P    10          85K      tB        36       S.0        is         2K     19       O.DS55
YEMEN P.0.45.  72   1.6E   220E         2.SA   12.6     79    12     *     10       70K      31        29      80.0        99        1ax    20        O.06AY
NUMBER OF CUUNTRIESI                    75     73      TO   69   69       71       89       55        lB          53      55        79      75        74
RANGEI                              (0.5-  (3,8-  (25- (0.  (0.    (5-          (10-      (17-     (19-       (1.8-    (7.       (.4-   (4-       (.01-
12.0P )  32,3)  96 I 52)  40)   98)           184K)   99 )       65 2       25.22)   99)       75.0)  43)       23.0)
OUARFILES:UPPER                      5.2   22.1       Ss   31   22       75      87        75       46          B        so       29       26      6.0
MEDIANt                   4.0    18.0     45   23    15    50         71       Su        is          5       63        16      25       2.00
LUNCH                     3,0   t3,9      36    16    12    21        52       30        33          3       25         9      20        .9
SYMAOLSI... DATUM UNAVAILABLE ----- 9---       O         --BE -ORE   uCUR-RE-N-T-P'RIC-ES -----------SOUR-C-ES--------------
-   AGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 8:8971                          N:GOP----
?  GUES7IONABLE                     Cal972                       P:INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                    COLUMNSSI AND 2 WORLD BANA ATLAS
*INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS 0.1973                            G:CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                          OR( I84D MISSIONS
**CUMBINED WITH PRIMARY            tw1974                      R:MINI3TRY OF EDUCAtION (MOE) ONLY                   3 TO 14 IBRD MISSIONS
FzJ97%                      S=MiJE AND STATE GUVT. ONLY                                   AND/UR UNESCO
G=1976                      T:EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                     STATISTICAL
UcPUBLIC ONLY                                                 YEARBOIJK
VaINCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
X=INCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
Y:UNESCO SOURcES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATIOIN DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES up eDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES, HUWEVER,ON THE BASIS OP THE PRESENT D2ATA,CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAI CAUTIOIN. DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE NAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY THE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES: THE
REMAINDER ARe STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA PROM UNESCO. EFFORTS NAVE SEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITSP TO CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK IS WORKING TO IMPROVE TMEM
PROGRESSIVELY UN TME OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIUNAL WORK. IN TME USE OF THESE DATA. THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MINDS
CIWEDUCA710N' AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL:
(2)'PRIMARY EDUCATIOn REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL eDUCATION AT TME SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) 
(3)'LITERACY RATESI(COL.6) ARC OFTEN OBTAINED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCOONTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMATIONS AND It IS
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF 'LITERATE' HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLYS
(4)NPUILIC EXPENDITURE IN EDOUCATIONwCCDLS3,34 AND 51 REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION BY
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES1
CS)ENRULLNTENT RAYII3-(CCUL3 7, 82 AND 14) REFER TO SCROOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIBLE CMILDREN ENROLLED PULL-TINE
IN TWO APPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN TME DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
.FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN  SCHOOL. UVERAGED STUOENTS WHOSE INCLUSIUN 1S INDICATED  BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE TWE RATIOS,



ANNEX 2
SOMALIA
Projection of Manpower Need and Supply,
1977-86   Animal Husbandry, Forestry and
Health
1977-86
Estimated Out-       Estimated Addi-
put p.a. From        tional Output p.a.
Projected            the Education         From Proposed 3rd
Need p.a.            Systemi/             Education Project
A. Animal Husbandry
1. Degree Holders            18                     26
2/
2. Technicians               55                     -                       18-
B. Forestry
2/
1. Forest Rangers            27                     -                        9-
C. Health
l  Doctors                   80                     40                     _
2. Nurses                   200                    150                      45
3. Sanitarians               33                     -                       30
4. Laboratory
Technicians               35                     -                       20
5. Pharmacy
Assistants                15                     -                       15
6. Anesthetist
Assistants                 7                     -
7. X-ray Technicians          5                     -                        5
1/ Excluding the proposed 3rd IDA education project.
2/ It is assumed that the proposed Animal Husbandry and Forestry School which
can take 60 intake in animal husbandry and 30 intake in forestry will start
operating from the 1980/81 school year.
3/ The existing Health Personnel Training Institute will be demolished due to
the expansion of the Mogadiscio Port and rebuilt at a different site under
the proposed 3rd project. A new Kismayo School of Nursing with 30 intake
is assumed to open in 1980/81 school year.
Sources: Ministry of Livestock, Range and Forestry, Mfinistrv of Health
and Bank Staff Estimate.
(March 1977)



S O MA L I A
Actual and Projected Prirxy School Enrollnt, 1970/71 - 1985/86
1/           j/        2/                                                            -       ~        ---
Grade    1970/71      1971/72      1972/73       1973/74      1974/75      1975/76      1976         1976/77       1977/78      1978/79      1979/80      1980/81       1981/82      1982/83      1983/84       1984/85      1985/86
(Marob-Sept)
1      10,140       13,900       20,120       24,330                     133,610          -         80,000       80,000        80,400       82,800       85,200       87,800        90,400       93,200        96,000       98,800
2       7,410        9,820       14,890        20,170        _            38,230          -         130,000       77,600       77,600       78,000       80,300        82,700       85,200       87,700        90.400       93,100
3       7,890        7,400       10,170        14,950        _            15.400          -         37,200       126,100       75,300       75,300       75,700        7',900       tO200       82,600        85,100       87,100
4       7,160        7,080        7,450        10,040         -           10,470          -          14,800       36,000      122,300       73,000       73,000        73,400       75,600        77,800       80,100       82,600
5       5,570        7,190        6,980         7,280         _             ,             -          9,900        14,400       35,000      118,700       70,800        70,800       71,200        73,300       75,500       77,700
6       4,530        5,750        7,510         7,730         -            7,550          -            -           9,600       14,000       33,900      115,100        68,700       68.700        69,100       71,100       73,200
7       3,940        4,470        5,210         6,930         -            6,930       7,550           -             -           -            -            -             -            -             -            _             _
8       3,730        4,240        4,970         5,470         _            7,330       6.900          7.600          _           _            _            _ 
Total    50,370       59,850       77,300        96,900         -          219,520      14,450        279,500      343,700      404,600      461,700      500,100       461,300      471,300       483,700      498,200       512,500
1/ Due to the literacy capsign, schools were closed.
?/ Due to the 1974/75 liter*cy/co.pulsory education camp-ign in which ochools were closed, two yearn of education for interediste  nd secondary
students had to be compressed into 18 saoths.  The syste  is normli.ed from  1976/77 onu-rd., snide from a *ll b-tch of primary Grade 8
students who storted Grads 6 in 1975/76.
3/ Abo.t 50,000 of total intakes were the nomdic children who were settled in 1975 after the drought.
The transition rate from grade to grade is assu..ed to be appronfestely 977, that is. eppreaietely 86% fron Grade I to Grade VI.
Sources Ministry of Edutation
(November 1977)



S O M A L I A
Protection of Primary School Enrollment and Teacher Requirement and Supply. 1975/76-1985/86
Available Stock of
Net Increase in Teachers Required                                          Trained Teachers
Required      Due to:                                                         Net Supply                         As % of
School         Enroll-          Stock of          (a)             (b)   2         (c) 3/           (d)        of Trained                         Required
Year            ment           Teachers      Expansion        Attrition        Other             Total         Teachers            No.          Stock
1975/76        219,500            5,730             -               60              -               -              1,080           3,120 5        54.5
1976/77        279,500            7,350           1,620            120             150            1,890            3,000           6,060          82.4
1977/78        343,700            9,260           1,910            170             150            2,230            2,500           8,290          89.5
1978/79        404,600           11,820           2,560            210             200            2,970            2,500          10,470          88.6
1979/80        461,700           14,050           2,230            250             200            2,680            2,500          12,560          89.4
1980/81        500,100           15,380           1,330            270             200            1,800            1,600          13,710          89.1
1981/82        461,300           13,900             -              280             200              480              800          14,040          100.0
1982/83        471,300           14,180             280            290             300              870              800           14,360         100.0
1983/84        483,700           14,540             360            290             300              950              800           14,570         100.0
1984/85        498,200           14,970             430            300             300            1,030               800          14,780          98.7
1985/86        513,100           15,420             450            300             300            1,050               800          14,980          97.1
1/  Calculated on the basis of one teacher for one class (40) for Grades 1, 2 and 3 and 1.3 teacher for one class (36) for Grades 4, 5 and 6.
2/  Assumed 2% p.a. among trained teachers.                                                                                                                   >
3/  Some qualified teachers proceed to the Lafole College of Education to become secondary school teachers.
4/  Until 1980/81, Halane Primary Teacher Training College will conduct a one-year crash program.  The graduates from this program will                       x
undergo a 2-year in-service training program.
5/ In 1975/76, there are 4,281 teachers consisting of 2,040 from a regular program, 1,084 from a crash program, and 1,157 from the
national service.
Sources: Ministry of Education and Bank Staff estimates.
(November 1977)



S O M A L I A
Actual nd Pro.ected  Secondary School Esrollmet. 1970/71 - 1985/86
Proiection A
Grads     1970/71       1971/72       1972/73       1973/74      1974/75       1975/76       1976          1976/77       1977/78      1978/79       1979/80       1980/81       1981/82       1982/83       1983/84      1984/85       1985/86
(March-Sept.)
1       1,810         1,600         2,270         1,950            -         1,270         2,500         2,500        2,700          3,800         7,200        23,500        41,200         41,200        41.500      42,700         43,900
2       1,440         1,740         1,820         1,990           -          1,950         1,310         2,500        2,500          2,700         3,800         7,200        23,500         41,200        41,200       41,500       42,700
3         880         1,200         2,130         1,780            -         1,580         1,960         1,310        2,500          2,500         2,700         3,800         7,200         23,500        41,200       41,200        41,500
4         620           800         1.520         2.030        2.000           -           1.540         1.960         1.310         2.500         .5.O          2.700         3.800          7,200        23.500       41.200        419200
Total     4,750         5,340         7,740         7,750         2,000        4,800         7,310         8,270         9,010        11,500        16,200        37,200        75,700        113.100       147,400      166,600       169,300
Protjection B
Grade     1970/71       1971/72       1972/73       1973/74       1974/75       1975/76      1976          1976/77       1977/78       1978/79       1979/80      1980/81       1981/82        1982/83       1983/84     1984/85       1985/86
(March-Sept.)
1I         -             -             -             -             -            -             -             -             -             -             -         11,500        12.100        12,700         13,300      14,000        14,700
2          -             -             _             _             _            _             -             _             _             _             _          7,200        11,500        12,100         12,700      13,300        14,000
3          _             _             _             _             _             -            -             -             -             -             -          3,800         7,200         11,500        12,100       12,700        13,300
4                                      _--                                                                                                                        2700         3,800          7,200        11.500       12-100        12 7.n
Total        -             -             -             -             -             -             -             -            -             -             -          25,200        34,600        43.500        49.600       52.100        54,700
1/  Projection A is based on the Gover-se.t's projectio- until 1980/81, beyond that, 60% traosfer rate fren prim.ry to secondary
school  is L sand.
2/  Projactios B is based os the Government's projectio- ..til 1979/80.  For 1980/81, 10% trnosfer rare free prinary to secondary schools is assued.
After 1980/81, a 5% iocrease in intake p,.. is as..eed.  Eoistiog schools ccc enroll 26,000 ctudemts on a dooble-shflt basis.
Sources: Ministry of Education and EBok Staff estimates.
(November 1977)



ANNEX 6
SOMALIA
Recurrent Expenditure of Ministry of Education
and Ministry of Culture and Higher Education
(So.Shs. million)
1974      1975          1976       1978      1980      19864/
(actual)  (actual)    (estimate)   -----(projected)-----
A. Ministry of Education
1. Primary Education              20        39            49         77        103       121
2. Secondary Education          (         (               11         15         29        90
(         (
3. Teacher Training             ( 1]      ( 15             8          8          7        10
(         (
4. Technical Education          (          (               2          3          5         8
5. Pre-primary Education
and Adult Education            1          1             2          3          4         6
6. Administration                  5         5             6          9         10        15
7. Total                          37        601'          78        115        158       250
B. Ministry of Culture
and Higher Education
1. Total                           8        14            16         20         25        35
C. Central Government
1. Total-                       531        585-          685        799        932     1,479
D. (A+B) as % of C                  8.6      12.6          13.7       15.6       19.6      19.3
1/ Including debt service. The annual average growth rate for 1976-80 is assumed
at 8.0% in real terms.
2/ Revised actual.
31 Preliminary actual.
4/ Projections to 1986 are orders of magnitude only based, inter alia, on projection
B in Annex 5.
Sources: Ministry of Education and Bank Staff Estimate.
(November 1977)



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
SOMALIA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance Program
1. Curriculum Development Center
Specialists for:
General Curriculum/Education Evaluation             (1)       24 man/months
Teaching Aids/Materials Production                  (1)       12    "
Science Kits Production                             (1)       12    "
Sub-Total                      48 man/months
Fellowships for:
Curriculum Development                              (1)       18 man/months
Subject Specialization                              (8)      144    "
Industrial Arts                                     (1)       18    "
Science Kits Production                             (2)       12    "
Sub-Total                     192 man/months
2. Textbook Printing (State Printing Agency)
Specialists.i/for:
Operation and repair of printing equipment          (3)        36 man/months
3. Regional Adult Education and Training Centers
Specialist for:
Village Technology                                  (1)       12 man/months
4. National Trade Testing and Training Center
Specialist for:
Development and Training of Trade Testing System  (1)         24 man/months
Fellowships for:
Development and Training of Trade Testing System  (2)          6 man/months
1/ To be financed by ADF.



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
5. Livestock and Forestry School
Fellowships for:
Forestry Training                                    (3)        72 man/months
6. Project Administration
Specialist for:
Architect Rural Services to School Design Unit    (1)           60 man/months
7. Survey of Public Administration
Specialist for:
Public Administration and Management Training        (1)        12 man/months
8. TOTAL
Specialists                                         (10)       192 man/months
Fellowships                                         (17)       270 man/months



SOMALIA
THIRDI EDUCATION PROJECT
Soeaar  of Estimated Project Costa to
Somli Shili.o.. 1000s  and TOO (Goo'.)
Civil Works                                        n  rn                   Total
Scudeot Plates                                                B.__  n  di..o.                               lions      Print-    Civi  Works,  Teb
IDA6                                                              stodent PHaoo       Gros  Area                ta    ir                                       Tots)          Eqtip-    _tc     ..    ...Poit-or,    na IProjet   Oascg-
Project It-EEr                                                    Cotr  - site Sc.-           &                          Alter-  Tota    Civi    ac-so   n    eil                 qloo            et-Aens             nl                r        oa
NseAt,o    od rita                                                          lttt oelsiTado   31j(  lmoi                         aildic' Work   totShlia Setr                   atras         ot
_________       _______  tB-draEton-i _a Sove                                                                                                        n         0'           J1fl.LQ.)L.
A.CrrItolss  Dse-lp-tn Centar-                                                        1,045          156      1,296       -         -       -      1,290    1,452    155        409       -           2,016        2,581    --4,597                                        730
B:  Printte.g MaEeriale .                                                                                   -          -         -                       -        -      -         -      9,8005        9,800            -      -           '9.800                         1,557
C. RegIo-a Adult Edo..aEioa and
C-i  Boydobh.                                                 1201  120          522          34        30        -         -       -        306      340      47       19         -            502            -     --582
C-2  Galtapy.                                                 12    12           618          47        418                                  410      465      65       296 0      -790                        -      --790-
C-3  Qocyola -.   120   120                                                     522           35        313        -         -      -        313      360      49       217        -             14            -      --614
C-4   -deMo                                                   120   120         610           47        418       -         -       -        410      465      65       260       -7n_                         -                                 ln
C-5  Etemnys                                                  ---T TT             22                                                         313      340      49       2t         -614                        -      --614-
C-6  SenAtE                              -    120   120          522           32        204       -         -       - ~120204         318      45       186       -549                                                           56-
C-7  Boro-                                                    125   122          522          30        342        -         -      -        342      300      53       236        -669                                                          669 
C-8  National Adult Edo.tatto   Ceotto                  -             -           -     I     -          -        -      L- -                                  -    ,,9A.                  .f 9,,             6'                                .6          
Sob-Total C                        -     40   040        3,946          260      2,396       -         -       -      2,396   2,664    373    2,621          -          5,650            692    -6 ,350                                     1,009
D.  lNEtoai .   Trade Tertisg and TraInEe8 Tearer                 30    60    90            -           -                     .'               -         -        -       62       713       -775                       760    --1,515                                       261
S. Li-etook  ,an  Poetry itbool                                   -    360   360         5,006         570       1,660    2,593       4708           4,731   5,201    660    1,910           -          7,871           567                              8  ,438           1,360
P,  Health TrainIng FPaillitee. FOt
a) Heallth PeronlTEami.ig losritote                  200    -    300        2,900          344      1,746    2,209         -    ,030    4,030   4,379    434          416        -5,229                      -      --5,229                                      831
6) ROddIato inoo fo NorsIn                         100    -       -           -           60          -        -         -     710        210      770    155        167       -1,092                      -      --1,092                                       173
K)iCtamp  inhool of Osraing                         -      60    60        1,026         114        403        6553              -     1,140   1,254    147          167       -          1,05608                                          1,568                249
0,  Sotye of Polito Ad.ilatetratto   and
Mana gement Tratioig Needs .                                                                                                                                                100        -100                       346    -          177              623                99
H.  Project Adnioiteratov--ti-                                                                                      -        -         -       -                                   186       -106                     1.731  091            -            2.808                446
Base Cost (Pebroar  1977)          -     -      -       14,103       1,512       7,583     5,535      478    710   14,3 00  15,820  1,986    6,689    9,800             34,295        6,653   891          177           42,020             6,675
Conttogeo-leo
a)PhysIcal Incras  (9%)                                                                          140         210       400       40      71    1,317   1,457    184          652       927        3,220           333    45            9            3,607               573
6) PrIce Tonresas (36%)                                                  ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~637  337 294 225    338    6.194   6.85 1    607  2.150    3.587   13.195i..      1. 997  267           39           15.498             2 462
Sob-Total                                                               797      4,047    2 ,702      273    409    7,511   0,300    70          2,802    4,514         10,415         2,330   312          40           19,105             5,035
Total (A-H)                                                           2.309     11.632   18.317       751  1.119  121.819   4.2    .Z2. 941 1.1                          570           897'203             225           61 125 ..           9 7lo_~
ADP
I.  Priocing Falllitio  (boa  coa...t Pebroas  1077)                -    -      -         1,600          322    2,700        -                 -      2,200   3,022       -      4,217        -7,239                   1,1233    -                        8,372              1,330
Tootleg nestles (46%)                                                                   149   1j46,,        -         -       -      1.246  i1.395       -      1.946        -            34.1......    523                              58.                  614
To tal (I)                                                 1,6009        471    3Q -9_...6                            3.946    4.417      -     4163         -         iSOH           1.656     -                        12.236        1 1.944
Projort Torol (A-1)                 -                      573        2.780   1~5(578, 8,317           751  1,119l.  _2j,.jj ~7 20.545  2.l 7_)b7 14314                 6122          10.643 1,203          22             3,361            11.654
2/Ioladee casesof  bout U000.4 m1iis  aasaet
Mactbh 1, 1977



ANNEX 9
Estimated Cost by Category of Expenditure
% of
So. Shs. millions         US$ millions        Total
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total Base Cost
I. Civil Works
(a) Site Development         0.72   0.79      1.51   0.12   0.12       0.24     3
(b) Academic and Communal   3.64   3.95       7.59   0.57   0.63       1.20    18
(c) Boarding                 2.65   2.88      5.53   0.42   0.46      0.88    13
(d) Staff Housing            0.23   0.25      0.48   0.04   0.04       0.08     1
(e) Alterations              0.34   0.37      0.71   0.05   0.06      0.11      2
Sub-Total I             7.58   8.24    15.82   1.20   1.31        2.51    37
II. Furniture                   0.40   1.59      1.99   0.06   0.26       0.32      5
III. Equipment and Vehicles       0.47   6.22      6.69   0.08   0.98      1.06    16
IV. Printing Materials              0   9.80     9.80       0   1.56      1.56    23
Sub-Total I-IV          8.45  25.85    34.30   1.34   4.11        5.45    81
V. Technical Assistance         1.30   5.35     6.65   0.21   0.85       1.06    16
VI. Survey of Public Admini-
stration and Management
Training Needs              0.12   0.06      0.18   0.02   0.01       0.03      1
VII. Project Administration      0.57   0.32       0.89   0.09   0.05      0.14      2
Total Base Cost I-VII
(February 1977)        10.44  31.58    42.02   1.66   5.02       6.68   100
VIII. Contingencies
(a) Physical Increase (9%)  0.97   2.64       3.61   0.15   0.42       0.57
(b) Price Increase (34%)    3.98  11.52    15.50   0.63   1.83         2.46
Sub-Total VIII          4.95  14.16    19.11   0.78   2.25        3.03
Total IDA Project
Cost I-VIII          15.39  45.74    61.13   2.44   7.27       9.71 1/
IX. ADF 2/                       3.08   9.13    12.21   0.49   1.45       1.94
Total Project Cost I-IX    18.47  54.87    73.34   2.93   8.72    11.65
1/   Includes taxes of US$0.4 million equivalent.
2/   Civil works, equipment, technical assistance and contingencies for elements,
printshop, financed by ADF.



SOMALiA i1
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Inmenmuntation and Expenditure Schedule-
Year                                           6  27              9     1 31            2      13        1 4  15     151 8s1                                          6
Implementation                  Quarters        1      2     3     4      5     6     7      8     9     10      11     12     13      14     15      16     17      18     19      20     21     22      23     24
I   Civil Works
1. Curriculum Development Center (CDC)             v#P   PPP   PPP   TTT   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX                       WWX XXX  WV    VVV VW  v
22 Textbook Printing (SPA)1                         ##P   PPP   PPT   TT    XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX    XXX    XXX    VVV     WV     VVV    WV
3. Regional Adult Education and
Training Centere (RAETC)                                                        *#i   PPP   PPP   XXX   XYX    XXX    XXX    XXX    XXX    XXX    XXX    XXX    XXX    VVV    VWV    VVV            vV
4. Livestock and Pore-try Schoot (LFS)                                 H#P   PPP   PPT   TTX   XXX   XXX   XXX    XXX    XXX    XXX    XXX    XXX    VVV    VVV    WV    VV
5. Health Personnel Training Institute (HPTI)   HP    PPP    PPP   TTT   XXX    XXX   XXX    XX XX   XXX    VW              WV     WV     WV
Nlaieei School of Nursing (MN)
6. lrisao School of Nursing (XSN)                   #PP   PPP   TTT   XYX   XX       X   XXXm          XXX   VVV    VVV    VVV   WV
11.  Furniture. Eeuirment and Materials                        PPP   PPP   PPP  PpP   TTT   TTT   XXX   XXX  XYX    XXX    XXX     XXX     XXX     XXX     XXX     WV    WV
III.  Technical Assistance
Curriculum Development Center   SpeciAlists                                                                   3       3      3      3       2      2 (T.rl A8  n-months)
Fellowships                          lo    10      11    11    11    1i Gottal i2 man-months)
2/
Textbook Printing                 Specialists                                                                 4       4      2      2 (Total 36 man-months)
Regional Adult Education
and Training Centers              Specialist                                                                                         I      I      I       I        (Total 12 ean-onths)
National Trade Testing            Specialist                            I     I      I      1     I     I     1       1 (24 man-mnths)
and Training Centers              Fellowships                                        2 (6 man-months)
Livestock and Forestry School   Fellowships                                                       3     3     3       3      3       3      3       3 (72 man-s nths)
Project Administration            Specialist         I     I      1     1     I      I     1      1     1     1       1      1              1       1      1       1      1       1      1   0 maOn-anths)
Survey of Public Adminis-
tration and Management            Specialist                      I     I      I     1 (12 mn-month
Exoenditure Schedule              US$ Million
1. Civil Works                        2.99                                   0.03  0.08  0.12  0.14   0.14 0.16   0.16   0.19   0.26   0.28   0.33   0.33   0.33   0.19   0.16   0.0    0.02
2. Furniture                          0.32                                          0.01  0.01  0.01  0.02 0.02   0.03   0.04   0.04   0.04   0.03   0.02   0.02   0.01   0.01   0.0
3. Equipment/Vehicles                 1. 73                            0.03  0.04  0.05  0.07  0. li   0.15 0.15   0.20   0.20   0.20   0.20   0.15   0.10   0.05   0.04
4. Printing Materials                 1.56                                                       0.09  0.10  0.11   0.11   0.11   0.11   0.11   0.11   0.11   0.11   0.11   0.10   0.1    0.10   0.08
5. Technical Assistance               1. 24         0.01  0.02  0.02  0.07  O.Oi   0.08  0.07  0.07 0.07  0.14   0.14   0.09   0.10   0.07   0.07   0.03   0.03   0.03   0.03   0.03
6. Proiect Administration             0.14          0.01         0.01  0.01  0.01         0.01  0.01  0.01           0.01           0.01           0.01           0.01           0.01           0.01           0.01
7. Management Survey                  0.03                                          0.01  0.01  0.01  ___
Base Cost (1-7)       8.01          0.02  0.02  0,03  0.11  0.15  0.23  0.29  0.43  0.49  0.58   0.65   0.63   0.72   0.70   0.70   0.59   0.55   0.38   0.31   0.21   0.13   0.08   0.01
8. Contingencies                      3.64          0.01  0.01  0.01  0.05  0.07  0.11  0.13  Q.20  0.23  0.26   0.29   0.25   0.32   0.32   0.32   0. 27  -0.25   0.17   0.14   0.09   0.06   0.04   0.01
Total Project Cost (I-S)          1165           0.03  0.03  0.04  0.16  0.22  0.34  0.42  0.63  0.72  0.84   0 94   0.91   1 04   1 02   1 02   0.86   0.80   0.55   0.45   0.30   0 19   0.12   0.02
1/ Implementation starts at date of credit effectiveness.
2/ Financed by ADF.
Legendt # - Survey of sites.
P - Designtpreparation of construction, furniture, equipment and tender documents.
T - Tender and awards phase.
X - Construction and delivery of furniture and ecuivent phase.                                                                                                                                       (March 1977)
V - Defects liabilities period(sruatntee period.



ANNEX 11
SOMALIA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(In Millions of U.S. Dollars)
1/                           Accumulated          Undisbursed
Quarters          Disbursements       Disbursements           Balance
1                                                          8.00
2                  -                   -                   8.00
3                 0.07                0.07                 7.93
4                 0.11                0.18                 7.82
5                 0.15                0.33                 7.67
6                 0.23                0.56                 7.44
7                 0.29                0.85                 7.15
8                 0.43                1.28                 6.72
9                 0.50                1.78                 6.22
10                 0.58                2.36                 5.64
11                 0.65                3.01                 4.99
12                 0.62                3.63                 4.37
13                 0.71                4.34                 3.66
14                 0.70                5.04                 2.96
15                 0.70                5.74                 2.26
16                 0.59                6.33                 1.67
17                 0.55                6.88                 1.12
18                 0.38                7.26                 0.74
19                 0.31                7.57                 0.43
20                 0.20                7.77                 0.23
21                 0.13                7.90                 0.10
22                 0.08                7.98                 0.02
23                 0.02                8.00                  -
24                  -                  8.00
1/ From date of credit effectiveness.
(March 1977)






SOMALIA
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
ORGANIZATION, 1976
SECRETARY OF STATE
DIRECTOR GENERAL
| DEPARTMENT OF    | ON  DEPARTMENT OF sec      DEPARTMENT M F         DENT R N                  DEPARTMENT OF            DEPARTMENT OF            CENTRAL
DEPRTEN O         ODAR, ECNIAL             TEACHER TRAINING       DEATETO  O-                PLANNING AND                                             R
PRIMARY EDUCATION      AND VOCATIONAL                                  FORMAL EDUCATION                               I   ADMINISTRATION           INSPECTORATE
EDUCATION               AND CURRICULUM                                    CONSTRUCTION
INTER NATIONAL
SECONDARY               TEACHER                 VVOMEN'S              RELATIONS               BUDGET AND
PRIMARY EDU-             EDUCATION                TRAINING                EDUCATION             AND ARAB                ESTABLISHMENT
CATION SERVICE           SERVICE                  SERVICE                 SERVICE               WVORLD SERVICE          SERVICE
KINDERGARTEN           TECHNICAL AND                           .
AND KORANIC            VOCATIONAL                CEURRICULU               EDUCATION               PLANNING                ACCOUNTS
EDUCATION              EDUCATION                 CENTIER                 SEDUICATO                SERVICE                 SERVICE
SERVICE    SERVICE     ~      ~     SRVIE                     ERIC
CORRESPONDENCE            EXAMINATION              YOUTH AND                                       STORES AND
COURRESPONDECE            BOARD                    SPORTS                                          SUPPLI ES
_COURSE SERVICESERVICE                             SERVICE                                         SERVICE
REGISTRY
SERVICE     3
PERSONNEL
SERVICE
CONSTRUCTION
AND MAINTENANCE
SERVICE
World Bank-i16024



SOMALIA
EDUCATION PYRAMID
1975/76
UNIERSTY% OF
UNIVERSITY  AGE GROUP
14                                                                     0.2  0.02
13                                                                     0.5  0.1
0.8% 
12                                                                     0.5  0.05
BOYS                                                               GIRLS
11                                                                     0.7  0.18
SECONDARY
10                                                                     0.2  0.05
9                                                                     1.5  0.3
3.0%
8                                                                     2.0    0.4
7                                                                     1.A   0.3
PRIMARY"-
8                                                                   5.5      1.8
6    eue  5to 61rdsfrmte19679choer
100           80           60            40            20            0            20            40           60            80           100
THOUSANDS OF PUPILS
1 I A 6 year primary cycle was introduced in 1975. The present 7 grades will be
reduced to 6 grades from the 1976/77 school year.                                                                   WrdBn-62



SOMALIA
Structure of the Educational System, 1976
National
Technical Institute                                    Service                Polytechnic (1977)
National
Primary School                                                                                                                                    ationa
General Secondary School                                Service               University Degree Program
Primary Teacher Training School                                               Teacher Training Program
Vocational Training School
Employment                                                                            Employment
World Bank-16487



SOMALIA
Possible Opportunities for Primary School Leavers, 1977
Duration (Years)      Capacity        Annual Intake
General Secondary Schools                 4               15000 lap.)        3500-4000
Mogadiscio Technical Institute            4                 240                  60
Hargeisa Technical Institute            (a) 4               240                  60
lb) 2              140                  70
Burao Technical Institute                 3                 135                  45
Accounting and Surveyors Institute        4                 240                  60
Maritime and Fishery Institute            4                 120                  30
Polytechnic                               3                 600                 200
PrimarY                    Primary Teacher Training College           1 'crash)       2500                2500
School                     Mogadiscio Nursing School                  2                 180                 90
Leavers
(7600)-                    Hargeisa Nursing School                    2                120                  60
Health Personnel Training Institute       2                 180                  90
Agricultural Secondary School             4                 240                  60
School of Animal Health                   2                 240                 120
Range Management School                   2                  60                  30
Institute of Post and Telecommunication   3                 120                  40
Lafole Technical Institute                3                 300                 100
Labor Market                             -                   -
1/ The number in-
creases to 115,000
in 1981
World Bank-16488



SOMALIA
Educational and Training Institutions by Ministry, 1976
Primary Schools                National UniversitY           Somali Institute               Nursing Schools               AgriculMural                  School of Animal               National Insttute              Lafole Technocal
M844t                                                of Development                a) Mogadiscio                  Secondary                      Health                        of Post and                    Iestitute
Administration                b) Hargeisa                    School                        Range Manageme t School       Telecommunication
General Secondary                                            and Management                Health Personnel               Farmer Training                Porest Guards
Schools-(33)                                                 (SIDAM)                       Train,ng Institute             Centers                        Training School
Technical Secondary                                          Vocational Training                                          a) Aburin
Schools                                                      Wrso   etrb   ok
a) Mogadiscio TI                                             Wrso   etrb   ok
b) Hargeisa TI                                                                                                            c) Ganale
cl Burso TI                                                                                                               d) Jammame
d) Accountants' and                                                                                                       ei Mahaday (1977)
Surveyors' nst.
e} Fishery Inst.
Primary Teacher
Training Schools
a) Halane
b) Mahad Al Mollimin
Polytechnic 119771
World Bankr-16489






BRDO 12401R
45.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ...ch 1971
PEPFSDEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FT  A  I                                                                    ~Beredo  1
IBOUTI                                                                                                                 7
oydo 
Adodo  Bosso7
K          Berbero~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ergovo
Nobocdid
C,  argeisc  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ -d Bender Beilo
*B  TEyOORFRI RN
*  RCEGIONAL ADIAT S kAI    00TrA44IIRN CiANm                                              777
*C-8 NATiONAM,AD"IATEDR)AWNDR H                                                                                                 -E
El      NOPONL TRADE T    IA            BTN_
*E RAIVE TOOK AND FRTRRSTIY SCHOOL
I' F   -ANA      $W%E  RAlfINS  FA  IrT S
+  F-2 KIWIAY0 SCHO     F      0IA
-BITUMINOUS SURFACED ROADS
,Belet Ue   E IBur                                         GF~~~~~~~~~~~UAVeL/EARTH SURFACED RtOADS
H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                  REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
-.- INTERNATIONALBWONDARIES
Luh   ~je   tBu
KILOMETERS~~E 
Bo~~~-dBeyo                                                                                                      I  so  10  15 4
Au      ryin  Bur AOG`DIqCI
D~~mo  ,~~~Y         S4el~omo                                  N
J00-i
Kolbio     Kismayo          ~          6         UTh  1~  ,,,I                                                                                 ,,    h
Gobo      4'                                          SOMALIAe   1, .......                                                                              m
THIRD EDUCATION PROJC                                            ~
\ Bodaddo~~~~~~~C-
QOryO4ey  ADIS to       ~         ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       UI/(A   OFA
Go)u~~~~~~~~~~~~~
B~~~~~~~~~~~~ZRE






SOMALIA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Key to Map
NO.                           NAME                            LOCATION
Al         Curriculum Development Center                      Mogadiscio
Bl         Textbook Printing                                  Mogadiscio
Cl         Regional Adult Education and Training Center       Baydoha
C2                              "                             Galcayo
C3                              "                             Qoryooley
C4                             it                             Gardo
C5                                                            Kismayo
C6                                                            Jowhar
C7                                                            Burao
C8         National Adult Education Center                    Mogadiscio
Dl         National Trade Testing and Training Center         Mogadiscio
El         Livestock and Forestry School                      Afgoi
Fl         Health Personnel Training Facilities               Mogadiscio
F2         Kismayo School of Nursing                          Kismayo



