Document of
The World Bank
FORI OIFFRCAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1969-SC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
July 28, 1977
This 1ccumentlhas restricted distributlon and rany be used by -reciplents only In the, peronannce of
their-officlal duties. Its contents may not othemise be diselosed wlthout -world BankD. ntorimftlon.



EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       -         Somali Shilling (So. Sh.)
US$1       -         So.Sh. 6.295
So.Sh.1    -        US$0.159
So.Sh.lm   -        US$159,000.
Government of Somalia
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SOMALIA - THIRD EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:             Somali Democratic Republic
AMOUNT:               US$ 8.0 million equivalent
TERMS:                Standard
PROJECT DESCRIPTON:   The project would assist in consolidating recent achieve-
ments in primary education and adult literacy by improving
the quality of education through curriculum development,
in-service teacher training and production of teaching
materials. It would promote basic education and skill
training through programs of non-formal education and
assist in meeting identified needs of specialized manpower
in the fields of animal husbandry, forestry, supportive
health services and trade testing. The project faces no
special risks, although realization of expected benefits
will depend on sufficient testing of the materials to be
developed under the revised curricula, and the Regional
Adult Education and Training Centers may encounter some
difficulties due to lack of sufficiently experienced ad-
ministrators of non-formal education at the regional level.
ESTIMATED COST:
(US$ Million)
Local     Foreign     Total
Curriculum Development Center               .1         .2         .3
Textbook Printing                           .3        2.4        2.7
Regional Adult Education and Training
Centers                                   .2         .7         .9
National Trade Testing and Training
Center                                    .0         .1         .1
Livestock and Forestry School               .4         .8        1.2
Health Institute and
Schools of Nursing                        .6         .7        1.3
Project Unit and Administration             .1         .1         .2
Survey of Public Administration and
Management Training Needs                 .1         .0         .1
Technical Assistance                        .2        1.0        1.2
Base Cost                                  2.0        6.0        8.0
Contingencies:  Physical (9%)               .2         .5         .7
Price (34%)                .8        2.2         3.0
Total Project Cost                         3.0        8.7       11.7
Total Project Cost net of taxes
and duties                              2.6         8.7       11.3
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FINANCING PLAN:
(US$ Million)
Local      Foreign     Total     %
IDA                                 0.7         7.3        8.0      71
African Development Fund            0.3         1.4        1.7      15
Gpvernment                          1.6          -         1.6      14
Total Project Cost                  2.6         8.7       11.3     100
APPRAISAL REPORT:
Report No. 1334-SO dated July 26, 1977.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1.       - I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Somali Democratic Republic for the equivalent of
US$8.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Third Education
Project. The African Development Fund (ADF) would participate through
parallel financing of the textbook printing component in the amount of
1.5 million ADF units of account (about US$1.7 million).
PART I - THE ECONOMfY 1/
2.        A Bank economic mission visited Somalia in April/May 1976 and the
resulting Country Economic Memorandum was distributed to the Executive
Directors on April 18, 1977. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        The Somali Democratic Republic was formed in 1960 by a merger of
the former Italian Trust Territory of Somalia and the British Protectorate
of Somaliland. Following a decade of parliamentary rule, the Government was
taken over by the military in 1969. The Supreme Revolutionary Council, con-
sisting of army and police officers, was the highest decision-making body
until mid-1976 when a political party, the Somali Revolutionary Socialist
Party, was formed and became the key political institution.
4.        In 1970 the Government announced its adherence to a program of
scientific socialism, emphasizing egalitarianism and social justice, develop-
ment through the public sector, nationalization of certain foreign enter-
prises, and the formation of cooperatives. While the Government has always
stated that there is room for private initiative in Somalia and several
privately financed projects have been implemented, the main emphasis has
been given to development of the public sector. The Government's development
efforts have been characterized by what have become national virtues: auster-
ity and self-reliance. Somalia joined the Arab League in February 1974. This
step has significantly increased the country's receipts of assistance from the
Arab oil-surplus countries.
5.        Somalia is located on the horn of Africa with three thousand kilo-
meters of coastline on the Gulf of Aden on the north and the Indian Ocean on
the east. It has an area of 637,700 square kilometers. The topography
varies from a hot and arid coastal plain, which gives way to sparsely wooded
savannah, to rugged mountains, agricultural plateaus and lowlands of varying
fertility and rainfall. Much of the country is arid; water supplies are
scattered and often unreliable, and periodic droughts bring great hardship to
1/   Part I - The Economy has been reproduced from the President's Reports
for the recently approved Roads III and DFC projects.



- 2 -
both the people and their livestock. Only a small proportion of the land,
approximately 13%, is arable. While the existence of several minerals has
been confirmed, exploration is still in the early stages and commercial
viability remains to be proved. Lacking other known resources, development
plans center on agricultural and livestock development. However, progress in
the development of stock-raising and agriculture will depend upon careful
management of scarce land and water resources.
6.        With an estimated per capita income in the order of US$100 in 1975,
Somalia is classified by the UN as one of the 25 least developed countries
of the world. Of the total population of approximately 3 million, about
two-thirds are nomads and semi-nomads, who depend on livestock for their
livelihood and about 20-25% are farmers cultivating land along the Juba
and Shebelli rivers and in the higher-rainfall Northwest region. The small
monetary sector of the economy provides only limited opportunities for employ-
ment. Apart from the traditional export of livestock, commercial agriculture
is mainly centered on the production of bananas for export, in which Italian
concession holders are still important, and the production of sugar for the
domestic market. Manufacturing and other sectors of the economy are re-
stricted in their potential by the small size of the market, poor infra-
structure, and the shortage of capital and entrepreneurial experience. No
income distribution data exist, but we estimate that about 70% of the popu-
lation live at subsistence levels of about US$200-250 per family of five in
1975. Social services are still very inadequate; the school enrollment ratio
was until recently among the lowest in the world but has taken a great leap
forward in the past two years.
Recent Economic Performance
7.        There is little economic data on Somalia.    Even basic figures
such as GNP, population, number of livestock, or output of major agricultural
crops are only rough estimates. Therefore, it is extremely difficult to
measure economic performance except in a very rough and ready manner.
8.        Poor rainfall in 1973 and a virtual absence of rain during 1974 and
the first half of 1975 led to widespread crop failures. The drought hurt
exports of livestock and bananas, the two largest earners of foreign exchange,
and required large imports of maize, sorghum, rice and sugar. The drought
affected the entire central and northeastern parts of the country involving a
large part of the population, mostly nomads. The Government moved quickly to
respond to the situation and began to set up relief camps in November 1974.
Relief camp population peaked at about 270,000 in late May and early June
1975, with nearly 400,000 other people being assisted outside the relief
camps. While the Government's foodgrain reserves were almost totally ex-
hausted by the end of 1974, food aid was received in sufficient volume to cope
with the immediate problem of hunger. However, despite prompt action by the
Government and the response of foreign aid donors, the loss of human lives
reached 19,000 by the end of summer 1975. Given the size of the disaster,
this was a relatively low figure and is an indicator of the growing effective-
ness of the Government. However, there was extensive loss of livestock,
estimated at 20-25% of the national herd.



- 3 -
9.        The drought was finally broken in 1975 when the summer rains were
quite good. Meanwhile, the Government established a number of agricultural
settlements in the south and fisheries settlements along the coast to provide
a permanent livelihood for the inhabitants of the relief camps. In August
1975, the relief camps were disbanded and about 110,000 people were resettled
in the three agricultural areas and about 15,000 were settled in three loca-
tions along the coast which have potential as fishing ports. The remaining
100,000 or so inhabitants returned to nomadism. The Drought Rehabilitation
Credit (623-SO) is assisting the three agricultural settlements.
10.       Somalia's manufacturing sector consists of a few relatively large-
scale public-owned enterprises and a large number of small private enter-
prises.  Out of an estimated value added in industry of US$20 million in 1973,
the most recent year for which sectorwide statistics are available, about 80%
was in the public sector. Most of the industries are agro-based, depending
upon locally produced raw materials. After making strong progress in the
period 1968-70, relative stagnation started in 1971 and lasted until 1973;
however, indications are that the industrial activity has picked up in 1974-
75, especially in the public sector. Several significant manufacturing
investments were made in the latter period such as a brick factory, a flour
and pasta mill, grain mills, and a corrugated carton factory. In addition,
expansion and modernization of existing plants, especially the sugar complex
and the textile factory, will come to fruition in the near future. Also,
the expansion of the fishing fleet is contributing to the improved performance
of the fish factory. Construction has started on a 500,000-ton oil refinery
financed by Iraq.
11.       Somalia's fiscal performance has continued to be encouraging,
and public savings through current budget surpluses will remain an important
goal of the Government. Together with the many self-help projects, the
ability of the country to help finance its investment plan is the most con-
crete embodiment of the national policy of self-reliance. The turning point
came in 1971 when the Government first succeeded in reversing a ten-year
history of budget deficits. Since then, a surplus has emerged every year.
However, the increasing supply of all types of governmental services nation-
wide and the recurrent cost implication of the recent large public investments
will make it increasingly difficult for the budget to act as a generator of
savings in the economy.
12.       To raise the revenues required to finance a high level of gov-
ernmental activity will require a reform of the tax system and identification
of new sources of revenue. Specifically, since the Government has invested
heavily in the parastatal sector, where financial performance has been poor,
ways of improving efficiency are necessary to ensure that they generate a
larger and growing source of revenue. A World Bank mission recently studied
state firms and has discussed its findings with the Government. The Bank
plans to continue this dialogue with a view to assisting the Government to
improve the operational efficiency of the parastatal enterprises.



13.       Somalia's balance of trade on goods and services has been in
deficit since Independence. The gap has grown from US$18.6 million in
1970 to US$106 million in 1975, largely as a result of rapid growth in im-
ports. Imports have risen steadily from US$56.8 million in 1971 to US$178
million in 1975. Fast import growth is taking place in spite of the Govern-
ment's comprehensive import licensing system and of selective measures to
constrain imports of some goods. Measures to compress non-essential imports
can only have limited impact, since development-related imports already
accounted for 40% of the total in 1974 and undoubtedly account for a higher
share at present. The remaining import bill is dominated primarily by non-
compressible items such as food. Exports, on the other hand, jumped from
US$31.9 million in 1970 to US$85.3 million in 1975. A stronger than expected
performance in livestock and meat products is largely responsible for the high
exports of 1975. Also, higher banana prices more than offset a marked decline
in volume exported (down about 20% from 1974). However, the main positive
developments in 1975 concern unrequited transfers and capital inflows. As a
result of the drought, Somalia received the equivalent of US$65.8 million in
cash grants and food and other assistance in kind valued at more than US$36
million. Capital inflows totalled US$41.5 million. These factors led to an
overall balance of payments surplus of US$51.9 million. However, since
exports of livestock are likely to drop in the future as nomads restock their
herds and unrequited transfers may fall to pre-drought levels, future years
will probably show roughly balanced transactions with neither large gains or
losses in reserves.
14.       Foreign aid has at times been the sole source of financing for
investment. In recent years it has been supplemented by modest sums of public
savings. However, for the foreseeable future, foreign assistance will
continue to play a major role in the development of the country. The Somali
Government is well aware of this fact and while pushing for self-reliance by
emphasizing domestic savings and self-help programs, it has mounted a major
effort to attract commitments of funds from the OAPEC countries. The large
inflows of foreign funds during 1975 indicate that the effort has been
successful. Given the poverty of Somalia and the resulting very limited
capacity to provide local financing from its own resources, provision of a
significant amount of local cost financing by external aid agencies is
justified.
15.       The source of foreign assistance has been changing from the western
countries (except for the EEC which continues to have a fairly large program)
towards the socialist group (mainly China and the Soviet Union) and the
Arab countries and Arab funds. Loans from the socialist countries typically
bear interest at 2-1/2% but have rather short maturities (10-15 years) while
the Arab countries tend to have terms which, while soft compared to commercial
rates, resemble Third Window more than standard IDA terms.
16.       The total public foreign debt of Somalia as of December 1975 was
approximately US$433.7 million, of which about US$250 million was disbursed
and outstanding. IDA commitments as of December 1975 accounted for 14% of
total debt outstanding. Although a large share of this debt is on fairly
soft terms, the debt service ratio has increased from 3.4% in 1972 to about
4% in 1975, and will probably triple by the 1980's. At present, IDA's share



of debt service is negligible and is projected to account for about 3% of
Somalia's total debt service payments in 1981. In view of the country's
poverty and uncertain export prospects, Somalia should concentrate its efforts
on obtaining assistance on the softest terms possible.
Development Planning Achievements
17.       The long-range objectives of the Government are strongly influenced
by the desire to be self-reliant. In line with this goal, the Government is
seeking to make the country self-sufficient in agriculture through both an
expansion of the area under cultivation and the development of irrigation. In
this process the Government intends to provide permanent settlement for many
of the nomads. Considerable emphasis is given to modernizing and mobilizing
the population. Of central importance for achieving these objectives are
education, rural literacy and self-help programs such as the agriculture and
public works "crash" programs. Finally, the Government places emphasis on
developing infrastructure, especially transportation and communications, which
are necessary to facilitate the above objectives.
18.       Since the bulk of the population is engaged in herding or in sub-
sistence farming, a development strategy for Somalia must start with agri-
culture and livestock as a base. The major development goals of the Somali
Government include self-sufficiency in foodgrains, the partial substitution
of other food imports (oils, rice) and improvement of the lot of the tra-
ditional nomadic herdsmen through settlement programs and improvements in
livestock production and marketing facilities. The current Plan's emphasis on
irrigated agriculture is meant to make the country less dependent on the
erratic pattern of rainfall, and assure more stable and predictable increases
in output. Attention is also being given to projects in rainfed agriculture
(mainly through the Self-Help Program, the Rainfed Crop Production Project
under the Juba-Shebelli Area Emergency Settlement Scheme, and the North-West
Region Agricultural Development Project) which focus on making the best use of
the limited amount of rainfall. Improvements in livestock production and
marketing are being promoted by the IDA-financed Trans-Juba Livestock Project
designed to provide market access to the nomads in the southern part of the
country and the Kuwait Fund-financed Northern Rangelands Project with emphasis
on rehabilitation of the denuded rangelands in the North. The Plan continues
to base its development of industry on the processing of domestic raw mate-
rials to substitute for imports.
19.       The 1974-78 Five-Year Plan, as originally conceived, was probably
overly ambitious and its implementation has been rendered even more difficult
because of the recent disastrous drought which forced the Government to con-
centrate resources on measures to save the drought-stricken population. A
review of Plan implementation after two years shows rates of implementation
of 46.2% and 40.8%, respectively, in 1974 and 1975. If adjustments for invest-
ments outside the Plan (mainly drought relief and rehabilitation) were made,
they would show implementation rates (in financial terms) of about 60% in 1974
and 55% in 1975. In absolute terms, annual investment therefore increased
from about So. Sh. 340 million in 1973 to an average of So. Sh. 500-600 mil-
lion in 1974-75. These figures suggest an increase in the country's capacity
to absorb investment funds.



- 6 -
20.       The Covernment's achievements over the past several years have
been impressive by any standard. Before the present Government came to power
in 1969, the economy was stagnant and the Government financially unviable.
Today the economy is developing in a dynamic manner and a far higher level
of public services is being supplied. Whereas a few years ago, a bilateral
budget support grant was necessary to finance the deficit in a current budget
which financed a dismally low level of services, today, even though the
country has been beset by national calamities and is carrying on new tasks,
the budget is not only balanced but actually produces a modest surplus.
21.       Two fields where the Government's achievements have been particu-
larly outstanding have been in the settlement of nomads and in education. As
noted above (para. 9), within a period of less than one year beginning in the
summer of 1975, more than 100,000 nomads were transported from the arid range-
lands of the North and settled on unutilized agricultural areas in the South.
Land clearing is taking place and irrigation facilities are being built.
Small harvests have already been reaped and this has encouraged both the Gov-
ernment and the settlers. In education, the Government has concentrated on
two aspects: basic education as a necessity for people, young and old, to
enable them to effectively participate in the social, economic and political
process; and specialized manpower training as a requirement for national de-
velopment. With respect to the former, the mass literacy campaign conducted
in the years 1973, 1974, and 1975 at a cost of So.Sh. 100 million (US$16
million) has resulted in an increase in the adult literacy ratio from about
5% to about 50-60%, according to the Government's own estimates. The formal
primary school enrollment ratio has risen from less than 15% of the relevant
age group a few years ago to approximately 34% at present, and universal
primary education is a goal that possibly could be achieved by the early
or mid-1980's. A script, introduced by the Government in 1972, made the
writing of the Somali language possible for the first time, and this re-
moved one of the major constraints to progress in the field of education.
With respect to manpower development, the Government is concentrating on
the training of high- and middle-level personnel in its principal develop-
ment sectors--agriculture and livestock.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
22.       Starting in 1965 IDA has made 13 credits totalling about US$88
million, about 50% of which has been made for transportation development,
including construction of two trunk roads and a new deepwater port and
associated extensions at Mogadiscio, and most recently, improvement of the
Hargeisa-Borama road. IDA credits were also made for education in FY71 and
FY75, for livestock development in FY74, and for a development finance com-
pany project earlier this year. Lending for agriculture commenced in FY76
with two credits for a drought rehabilitation project and a North-West Region
agricultural development project. No Bank loan or IFC investment has been
made to Somalia. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits as
of May 31, 1977 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Performance
on ongoing projects has been generally satisfactory. However, as the pace



of development continues to rise, absorptive capacity constraints are likely
to become increasingly evident, especially in the field of agriculture where
projects are rather complex and implementation experience is limited. We will
therefore, in preparing and appraising new projects, pay particularly close
attention to implementation capacity.
23.       We plan to concentrate our efforts on the country's directly
productive sectors -- agriculture and livestock -- and also on education
and transportation. While agriculture and livestock offer potential for
development, most rural development activities are only at the beginning
stage. Moreover, agricultural development in Somalia is particularly diffi-
cult because most of the people in the rural areas are nomadic. For these
reasons, we plan that much of our future lending will be in the agriculture
and livestock sectors, and this will be complemented with near equal atten-
tion on education. In addition to these sectors, we plan to support the
Government's industrial development efforts (and assist in the formulation
of an industrial development policy) through our country economic work and
future DFC projects. An initial water supply project is also envisaged.
24.       In order to help Somalia make the best use of assistance available
from neighboring Arab countries, and also to ensure that IDA funds have the
greatest impact, we have agreed with the Government to spread available IDA
resources over a relatively large number of projects. Accordingly, the
Association will make a major contribution to project identification and
preparation, but in most cases would finance a small share of project costs
and would help mobilize complementary funds from other external sources. This
strategy requires extensive use of Bank Group staff, which is fully justified
in view of Somalia's state of development and its strenuous efforts to improve
its absorptive capacity.
25.       To facilitate the development and implementation of the Associa-
tion's growing operational program in Somalia, we have recently established a
one-man resident mission. The mission will represent the Bank Group in
its dealings with the Government, will assure an efficient and smooth day-to-
day working relationship with the Government, and will help coordinate
co-financing arrangements on the basis of the strategy outlined above.
PART III - EDUCATION IN SOMALIA
26.       Policy and Programs.  Somalia's education policy is designed to
achieve the national development goals of social justice and self-sufficiency
in agricultural production through provision of basic educational opportuni-
ties to all and of trained manpower required for identified development needs.
It focuses on maintaining and reinforcing recent educational achievements and
calls for a spirit of austerity and self-help among the people. In order
to build a society in which the masses can effectively participate in social,
economic and political activities, priority has shifted to primary and adult
education from secondary education. This shift was made in 1975 when compul-
sory, free primary education was introduced and made a target for the not-too-
distant future. The structure of education has been changed by increasing



- 8 -
the age of entry to primary school from six to seven years and by reducing the
primary education course from eight to six years. The four-year secondary
education course has been maintained, and its size is geared to future man-
power needs. Emphasis has been placed on adult literacy and nonformal
education programs, while specialized manpower needs in agricultural, animal
husbandry, paramedical and vocational skills are being met through institu-
tional and on-the-job training programs.
27.       Recent Achievements.   Over the last few years, Somalia has made
remarkable progress in expanding the educational system. Total primary
school enrollment increased from 97,000 in 1973 to 220,000 in 1975, which
raised the primary school enrollment ratio from 13% to 34%; among the settled
populations the ratio is as high as 60%. A massive literacy and health
campaign in 1974-75 enrolled over one million adults. Today, some 1,500 adult
learning groups have been formed for three-year basic education programs.
Literacy classes are compulsory for the 50,000 adult nomads who were settled
in connection with the drought rehabilitation program. Three of the ten
nomadic training centers being established under the second IDA education
project are located in the settlement areas to cater to these adults.
Literacy materials and textbooks are distributed free of charge, and radio
programs have become an important tool in strengthening adult education.
28.       These achievements have been possible because of bold Government
decisions regarding introduction of a script, the restructuring of the primary
education cycle and the employment of teachers without formal qualifications.
In 1972 the Government adopted the Latin script for Somali, previously only a
spoken language, and made Somali the official language of the country. This
decision was the most important element in making the literacy campaign
possible. Textbooks for primary education were written in Somali and are
being tested and introduced in the system; in 1975 the State Printing Agency
produced one million copies of such textbooks. By 1978 textbooks for secon-
dary education are also expected to be written in Somali on the basis of a
revised secondary school curriculum. To cope with the sudden and rapid
expansion of primary education, the Government set top priority on the estab-
lishment of a new primary teacher training school, which was financed under
the second IDA education project and is now in operation. Furthermore, the
Government shortened the primary teacher training program from the regular
two-year course to a one-year accelerated program and continues to rely on
national service volunteers -- secondary school graduates serving one year as
teachers before they take up employment or proceed to higher education.
Although the Government has been successful in mobilizing the population to
build schools and to serve as temporary teachers, it is aware that quantita-
tive expansion is being carried out at the expense of educational quality,
and that measures are urgently required to improve teacher quality through
in-service training, appropriately developed teaching materials and better
education administration.
29.       The implications of achieving universal primary education are far-
reaching. Over the next ten years, an average of 1,600 new primary school
teachers will be required annually, an output eight times as great as in the
recent past. An average of 650 classrooms per annum will have to be built,
in addition to the 500 classrooms built in 1976 alone for the rehabilitation



settlements. Due to the large intake of nomadic children settled in 1975,
more than 100,000 students are expected to complete primary school in 1981
and about 70,000 per annum thereafter, as compared to 7,000 in 1976. The
large number of primary school leavers will eventually place increasing
pressure on secondary school enrollment which has recently remained at a
constant level of about 10,000 students. Consequently, the Government
intends to carry out a reassessment of its policy for secondary education
development, since continuation of the present high transition rate of
60% would, imply secondary school graduation of 23,000 students in 1984, as
compared to the present level of 2,000. Long-term development of secondary
education will have to be geared to the manpower requirements of the Develop-
ment Plan. With the increasing school population and the drive for adult
literacy, the development and provision of appropriate teaching/learning
materials require immediate attention. It is estimated that over the next
several years, an average of 2.3 million textbooks per annum needs to be
produced and distributed.
30.       Institutional Developments.   The Ministry of Education was re-
organized in 1976. A new Department of Teacher Training and Curriculum
Development is responsible for developing and revising curricula, preparing
textbook manuscripts and operating the in-service teaching training program.
This Department will address the need for a qualitative evaluation of the
recent changes in the sector. The Department of Nonformal Education is
responsible for programs of adult and women's education; these programs will
be implemented through the establishment of regional adult education and
training centers which will strengthen the regional organization, super-
vision and materials distribution of the rapidly expanding multi-functional
programs.
31.       In order to meet specialized manpower requirements, the National
Trade Testing and Training Center is being developed, and a Livestock and
Forestry School will be established to train personnel in the fields of animal
husbandry and forestry. A Polytechnic will be completed in 1977 with a
capacity of 800 for craftsmen and technicians. Additionally, the Government
plans to strengthen the Health Personnel Training Institute and the Mogadiscio
School of Nursing, as well as to establish a new School of Nursing in Kismayo.
Expansion of the National University is proceeding rapidly in accordance with
the guidelines provided in the 1974-78 Development Plan.
32.       Financing.   Education in Somalia is free, apart from secondary
school boarding fees. Between 1969 and 1974, the combined recurrent expen-
diture of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Culture and Higher
Education was about 7% of the central Government's recurrent expenditure.
However, as a result of the rapid growth of the sector, expenditure has
increased to about 14% at present and by 1980 is expected to reach 20%,
which would be comparable to the current share of recurrent expenditure in
many African countries. Recent capital investment in education surpassed
its targeted proportion in the first two years of the 1974-78 Development
Plan and represented 8% of total development investment as compared to the
planned level of 5%. Based on actual disbursements, IDA assistance for
1974-75 accounted for about 30% of the total capital investment in education.



- 10 -
33.       Total planned investment in the sector, about So. Sh. 191 million
over five years, allocated about 25% to primary and secondary education, 21%
to technical and vocational education, and 26% to higher education. Invest-
ment in education facilities for nomads and teacher training is expected to
account for 19% and 7%, respectively.   The Government's financing strategy
essentially consists of supporting the construction of primary school class-
rooms from its own budget and seeking foreign assistance for improvement and
expansion of post-primary educational institutions. The Plan assumes that
external sources will finance about 70% of total investment, while Government
participation, which was almost nil under the previous Plan, will be some
30%. The ongoing second education project and the proposed third education
project are expected to represent a major source of external assistance
during the project period.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
34.       A report entitled "Somalia - Appraisal of a Third Education Proj-
ect" (No. 1334-SO) is being circulated to the Executive Directors separately.
A supplementary project data sheet is attached as Annex III. This project
was prepared by the Somali Government with UNESCO assistance in May 1976
and was appraised by an IDA mission in July 1976. Negotiations were held
in Washington on February 22 and 23, 1977. The Somali delegation was headed
by Mr. Abdurahman Nur Herzi, Minister of Finance. Presentation of this
project to the Executive Directors was postponed to FY78 since no further
funds could be made available to Somalia out of the Fourth IDA Replenishment.
Background
35.       The proposed project would be the Association's third lending
operation in the education sector in Somalia. The first project (Cr. 247-SO)
assisted in the improvement of teacher, secondary and technical education,
agricultural extension work, and the establishment of a Project Unit and a
School Design Unit; it was satisfactorily completed in September 1976. A
recently prepared project completion report has identified implementation
lessons which have been taken into account in designing the proposed project.
For instance, the civil works component has been kept comparatively small,
and emphasis has been kept on the utilization of force account and self-help
methods. Also, special provisions have been made to ensure the timely imple-
mentation of the technical assistance component, as well as the strengthening
of the Project and School Design Units. The second project (Cr. 511-SO) also
supports teacher and secondary education, as well as fishery training and a
special education program for nomads; implementation is on schedule.
Project Objectives
36.       The proposed project aims at consolidating recent quantitative
achievements in primary education and adult literacy by improving the quality



- II -
of education. It also seeks to promote basic education and rural skill
training through nonformal education programs particularly addressed to women
and the rapidly expanding number of primary school leavers.     Furthermore, the
project supports the training of specialized manpower in accordance with
identified needs and national development priorities.
Project Description
37.       The project would assist, over a six-year period, an investment
program to improve the quality of education through curriculum development,
teacher upgrading and production of teaching materials. It would establish
a system of regional centers to strengthen the administrative structure
of nonformal education. Training for specialized manpower in animal husban-
dry, forestry and paramedical services would be provided, and the existing
system of vocational trade testing and training would be improved. Project
administration would be strengthened, and specialist services provided, as
would a survey of public administration and management training needs.
Specifically, the project would consist of:
(a) Construction, extension, renovation and/or equipping of the
following institutions:
(i)  a new Curriculum Development Center;
(ii)  extension to the State Printing Agency, including
about three years of incremental printing materials
for textbook production;
(iii)  seven Regional Adult Education and Training
Centers;
(iv)  equipping of the National Trade Testing and Training
Center;
(v)  a new Livestock and Forestry School;
(vi)  a new Health Personnel Training Institute;
(vii)  renovations to the Mogadiscio School of Nursing;
(viii)  a new School of Nursing in Kismayo.
(b)  Equipment and incremental operating expenses for the Project
and School Design Units;
(c)  A survey of public administration and management training
needs;
(d)  The cost of specialist services and fellowships associated
with the above items.



- 12 -
Project Features
38.       Curriculum Development Center.   The Curriculum Development Division
of the Ministry of Education is responsible for development of curricula,
syllabi, and teaching aids and materials for general, technical and teacher
education; it also assists in teacher training. Its workload has increased
to the extent that existing staff and physical facilities require reinforce-
ment to permit the efficient execution of work. The project would provide for
construction and equipping of a new Curriculum Development Center. Specialist
services would be provided for curriculum development, production of teaching
aids and training of Curriculum Development Center staff in education evalua-
tion. Sixteen man-years of overseas fellowships for the Center's staff would
also be provided; completion of the fellowship training program would occur
shortly before the new Center begins to operate.
39.       Textbook Printing.   The State Printing Agency is the only printer
for both the public and private sectors in Somalia. In 1975 the State Print-
ing Agency produced about one million textbooks for the Ministry of Education.
During the next 10 years, it is estimated that an average of about 2.3
million textbooks per annum will be required for primary, secondary and
nonformal education, and for teachers' guides. This estimate exceeds the
present printing capacity of the Agency. The project would provide for
printing equipment, the construction of additional physical facilities,
specialist services to train local staff in the operation, maintenance and
repair of printing equipment and in printing layout, and incremental printing
materials (paper and other printing supplies) for about three years of the
expanded textbook production program. Under an agreement between the State
Printing Agency and the Ministries of Education and of Culture and Higher
Education, the new facilities would be used exclusively for the printing
requirements of the Education Sector.
40.       Regional Adult Education and Training Centers.    Although the scale
of the 1973-75 mass literacy campaign cannot be maintained, the Government is
determined to ensure the permanency of what has been achieved and to strengthen
literacy with functional skills. It plans to establish a Regional Adult
Education and Training Center (RAETC) in each region, to develop and improve
the system of nonformal education. The RAETCs would act as regional support
and resource centers to provide the necessary organization, supervision and
materials distribution for adult learning groups. They would offer a broad,
basic adult education course of three to six months duration, which would
include rural skills training particularly addressed to women and to the
rapidly expanding number of primary school leavers, and would support ongoing
radio education programs which broadcast information and advice on agriculture,
livestock production and forestry. The project would provide construction
materials and equipment for the establishment of a RAETC in seven priority
locations which have been identified. The selection of construction sites
for the PRAETCs as agreed with the Association, would be a condition of
credit effectiveness (Developmnent Credit Agreement, Section 6.01 (a)). Con-
struction of the centers would be under the direction of the Project Unit



- 13 -
and would utilize a self-help scheme successfully used in previous education
projects. The project would also provide radio receiving and recording sets
for distribution to adult learning groups within the catchment area of each
of the proposed centers. A specialist would be recruited by September 30,
1978 to advise on the development of training courses in village technology
(handicrafts, carpentry, simple mechanical and electrical works, construction
and similar skills), to help train Somali craftsmen as instructors for the
centers, and to supervise the establishment and carrying out of skill train-
ing (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.06 (a)).
41.       National Trade Testing and Training Center.    In 1974 a trade testing
unit was organized under the Ministry of Labor and Sports to develop and
administer trade tests, in order to classify trade and vocational skilled
workers and to develop a more precise basis for the formulation of wage
policies. The Government intends to utilize trade tests results as a tool for
job placement, for qualitative improvement in vocational and technical train-
ing, and for keeping abreast of the manpower supply situation. Trade testing
in Somalia, however, is still in an early stage. The system is not well
organized; guidelines and procedures are not fully established; testing
facilities are lacking; and testers are inadequately trained. To improve the
system, the project would expand and develop the National Trade Testing and
Training Center in Mogadiscio to serve as headquarters for the trade testing
and staff training program. Assistance from the project would consist of
trade testing equipment in mechanical, electrical, and woodwork trades.
Specialist services in trade testing and vocational training would be provided
to assist in improving the organizational structure, formulating policies and
procedures and staff training. Fellowship training would also be provided to
enable staff from the Center to observe trade testing programs in other
countries.
42.       Livestock and Forestry School.   Development of the livestock indus-
try in Somalia requires m,lodern animal production techniques focusing on the
improvement of livestock breeds, feeding, range management, and the processing
and utilization of animal by-products. This will require complimentary
intensification of ongoing programs of forest and range management, reforesta-
tion and water shed development. The National University is expected to
graduate sufficient degree holders in animal husbandry to meet higher level
manpower requirements. However, facilities for training middle-level techni-
cians in animal husbandry and forestry are not available in Somalia. The
project would establish a 360-place Livestock and Forestry School where
four-year post-primary courses would be offered in animal husbandry and
forestry. Instructors for the animal husbandry course would be recruited from
graduates of the College of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science of the
University. For the forestry course, however, since qualified instructors
would not be available locally, the project would provide six man-years of
fellowships for training abroad of graduates of the National University to
serve as forestry instructors.
43.       Health Personnel Training Institute, Mogadiscio School of Nursing
and Kismayo School of Nursing. The Health Personnel Training Institute in



- 14 -
Mogadiscio trains all supportive health personnel for the country except
nurses, who are trained at the Hargeisa and Mogadiscio Schools of Nursing.
Within the next ten years, output from the Institute is expected to meet
manpower requirements in accordance with the planned expansion of health
services. The Institute, however, is housed in an inefficient and antiquated
building. The Government plans to construct a new Institute and to transfer
its community-oriented nursing course to the Mogadiscio School of Nursing, to
allow the new Institute to concentrate on the training of supportive health
personnel. To accommodate the added nursing course, the School of Nursing
would be renovated. The Institute and the School of Nursing are adequately
staffed with Somali instructors; three World Health Organization health
education specialists currently provide technical assistance. The project
would finance the construction and equipping of the new Institute and the
renovation of the Mogadiscio School of Nursing. The project would also
provide for construction and equipping of a new 60-place School of Nursing in
Kismayo, where there is an acute shortage of trained nurses and where the
population is rapidly increasing as a result of the concentration of many
development projects in the area, including the resettlement program (para.
9).
44.       Survey of Public Administration and Management Training Needs.
One of the most serious problems Somalia faces is the lack of trained and
experienced Somali administrators and managers to administer existing Govern-
ment services and development programs. The Somali Institute of Development
Administration and Management and the Institute for Accounts and Surveyors
currently conduct training programs for administrative, managerial and cleri-
cal personnel. However, their training programs are not well attuned to
existing demand in terms of type, number and quality of manpower required.
The project would provide one man-year of specialist services in public
administration and management manpower planning as well as equipment and
logistical support to assist the Government in conducting a comprehensive
survey of the manpower training needs in public administration and manage-
ment. The Somali Institute of Development Administration and Management has
been designated to carry out the survey. By October 30, 1977, a plan for
executing the survey would be submitted to the Association for review, and
within the following six months, the administration and management manpower
specialist would be recruited, the necessary equipment procured and the survey
started (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.06 (b)).
Project Execution
45.       The Project Unit established for the implementation of the first
and second IDA education projects would be responsible for the financial and
administrative control of the project including liaison with the Association.
The School Design Unit would design and supervise the construction of project
institutions, for which standard plans and construction documents developed
for the first and second education projects would be utilized to the maximum
extent possible. The Project and School Design Units have already been
strengthened by the appointment of two building supervisors and a draftsman.
They would be strengthened further by the appointment of an additional ac-
countant and an architect, both of which appointments would be an additional



- 15 -
condition of credit effectiveness (Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01
(b)). Including five years of architectural services, the project would fi-
nance a total of ten specialists, who would provide 16 man-years of services
at an estimated cost of US$55,000 equivalent per man-year. By September 30,
1982, six months prior to completion of the project, the Project Unit would
prepare terms of reference for a project evaluation committee and would fur-
nish the same to the Association for review (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.06 (c)). The committee's evaluation report would be submitted to
the Association within six months after completion of the project (Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, Section 3.06 (d)). The Curriculum Development Center
Director would chair the committee and provide leadership in planning and
conducting the evaluation.
Project Cost and Financing
46.       Total project cost (excluding about US$0.4 million of taxes and
duties) is estimated at US$11.3 million equivalent, of which US$8.7 million
or about 77% represents foreign exchange requirements. A summary of cost
estimates is contained in the Credit and Project Summary. Costs are based
on estimated February 1977 prices. Physical contingencies of 10% on the
base costs of civil works, equipment, furniture and printing materials and
of 5% on technical assistance and project administration have been included.
A cumulative price contingency of 34% has also been included to cover esti-
mated price escalation from the base cost date in accordance with the imple-
mentation schedule. Total (physical plus price) contingencies represent about
45% of the base cost of this project.
47.       The African Development Fund would finance the civil works, printing
equipment and technical assistance items of the textbook production component.
IDA would finance textbook printing materials and all other project components.
The Government would contribute US$1.6 million equivalent towards meeting
local costs. Total project costs would be shared in the following amounts
and proportions:
(US$ million)
Local    Foreign     Total    Percent
IDA                   0.7       7.3       8.0        71
ADF                   0.3       1.4        1.7       15
Government            1.6        -         1.6       14
Total Project Cost    2.6       8.7       11.3      100
The proposed IDA credit would be on standard terms to Government.    It would
cover about 84% of foreign exchange costs and US$0.7 million of local costs.
The financing of local costs is justified for the reason given in para. 14.
The ADF loan would be on concessional terms similar to IDA's. It would
finance the balance of foreign exchange expenditures and about US$0.3 million



- 16 -
of local costs. The Government's contribution would be spread over six years
and is within its financial capacity in light of past and projected capital
expenditures for education.
48.       Procurement.  Contracts for civil works, construction materials,
equipment (including vehicles and furniture) and printing materials (including
paper) would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with World Bank guidelines; orders would be grouped to the extent
practicable. Qualified domestic civil works contractors would be allowed a
preferential margin of 7-1/2% over bid prices of competing foreign contrac-
tors. Imported building materials would be procured by the National Agency
for Building Materials.  Due to delays in shipment and the clearing of mate-
rials through customs in the previous education projects, the Agency will
procure required materials according to semi-annual forecasts by the Project
Unit in order to ensure adequate supplies during construction (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.07). Contracts for less than US$50,000 equiva-
lent for furniture and equipment (estimated in aggregate at about US$350,000
equivalent, excluding contingencies) would be awarded on the basis of com-
petitive bidding, advertised locally and in accordance with procedures sat-
isfactory to the Association. Domestic manufacturers of furniture and equip-
ment would be allowed a preference of 15% or the existing rate of import
duties, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign sup-
pliers. Due to the small size and remote locations of the seven Regional
Adult Education and Training Centers, their construction and procurement of
local materials would be through force account by regional councils utilizing
a self-help scheme under the direction of the Project Unit.
Disbursement
49.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed over a six-year
period and would cover all foreign expenditures to be financed by IDA and
50-100% of certain local expenditures (Development Credit Agreement,
Schedule 1). Disbursements would be fully documented with the exception that
disbursement for project administration and the management survey would be
against certificates of expenditure for which documentation would be retained
by the Borrower and reviewed by the Association in the course of project
supervision. Expenditures incurred for project administration and the manage-
ment survey would be maintained in a separate account which would be audited
annually, and these audit reports would be available to the Association
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.08). The closing date of the credit
is September 30, 1983.
Benefits
50.       The benefits expected from the proposed project would relate to
the quality of education, manpower development and institution building. The
project would improve educational quality through curriculum development and
the provision of teaching-aids, primarily textbooks, and through the develop-
ment of regional centers for the improvement of adult education. Since
Somalia will continue to rely for several years on unqualified teachers, an



- 17 -
adequate provision of appropriately developed textbooks is essential to enable
learning and is likely to benefit particularly the students from the most
disadvantaged groups of society. The project would benefit manpower develop-
ment through the expansion of specialized training institutions to provide
middle-level technical manpower for the rural development programs. The
Livestock and Forestry School and the Health Personnel Training Institute
would be the only institutions in the country for the training of animal
husbandry technicians, forest rangers and para-medical personnel, and their
outputs would meet long-term development needs. Institution building would be
promoted through further development of school design and implementation
capacity. More significantly, the capabilities of the existing institutions
for curriculum development, teaching aids preparation, trade testing, produc-
tion and distribution of educational materials, and administration and man-
agement of adult education would be extended.
Risks
51.       The major risk associated with the project is that the pressure
to supply books in Somali as soon as possible to a rapidly increasing enroll-
Lient might induce insufficient testing of the materials to be developed in
line with revised curricula. A second risk is that in the initial stages of
their operation, the Regional Adult Education and Training Centers may en-
counter some difficulties due to the lack of experienced administrators of
nonformal education at the regional level and to the need for improvisation.
However, the accomplishments made by Somalia over the last three years in the
areas of textbook development and adult education indicate that these risks
are not likely to be large. To reduce them further, technical assistance and
fellowships for overseas training would be provided according to a carefully
designed schedule. The risks are also counterbalanced by the Government's
objectives and strategy for education development, which have fostered re-
markable progress in expanding educational opportunities within manpower
guidelines and budgetary constraints.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Somali Democratic
Republic and the Association, the recommendation of the Committee provided
for under Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion, and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed development
credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
53.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are referred to in Annex III of this report.
54.       Additional conditions for effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement are: (i) the selection and provision of construction sites for
each of the seven Regional Adult Education and Training Centers; (ii) the
appointment of an architect to the School Design Unit and of an additional



- 18 -
accountant to the Project Unit; and (iii) the effectiveness of the ADF loan
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.02).
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
July 28, 1977



a. m  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 1~~~~  S
a. a                                          S~~~~~~~~~l  a:
o  , tC C *  ae  C  00P~0     0 b.0 a  aSO   a 0  OSO
S    ,W O   S,      .~q0         *WO  --  -S
a  *5 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 7O  
aD     00,.  0             000  *     *    000 * C Z   "It   ..
a .  a                I..   0    &CT   X.X        ...
a.  .-*                     -. r. A,        S~~~~~~~~~olV ..  .. 
*  aa*               iw                 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  
05                                         5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
5- S                                       S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



. . . . . .* .e . . .- .. . . .* ..                                        , ._ u t t  > o> Wn W _
C  ~~  *H;  '~  n  * o  t  W Z  t_   OX  o c c O  ~*  0:   .= . ,  s' 
-~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~. c1     1. 3. .1 Z.     cc
sr a | | > c  X    _ g  2 * > E  if  c o  - *  t  _  :V
E !s  oL  '  >  ~c eu-a  s _  CC  f  et  C  e -co e  u      e'   3u  _
u a  Q- a  > _  @  t < DV f :sc   3 3 ~   c e _   s  C  c u  fi  o  W s n  n   Wo o 
; u g _ - ff~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I uW='*Ur                 a~eXZnu5ooUX-uEF 
o~~~~~~~~~~ h |    ge- . _... O  *fifiec cS e  3 .  3  3
>~~~~~~~~~~ c -n_~OIz a e|3r_,  ._Uo'-g.. f 
v | G f  , e  i _ e _  .  i, W O.E.i.   ..  a t.>.* . 
f * * ' ff~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Io'3c > oofa.c 
_~~~~~~~~~ _ n o    t 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t41
S . a e U S @e _O o@ 
g..........sS o1 



-21-                                     Annex I
Page 3 of 4 pages
S0MALIA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT                                                ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                        1961 -69           1969 -73           1974
GNP at Market Prices   (1974)   260.0      100.0
Gross Domestic Investment
Gross National Saving
Trade Balance (1975)            -89.1
Exports of Goods, NFS (1975)     88.5
Imports of Goods, NFS (1975)    177.6
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY
Value Added                   Labor Force                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.       %                 Mln.
Agriculture
Industry                        ....
Services                        ....
Unallocated
Total/Average            .           .
100.0                          10.0                               100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                              Central Government
.Sh Mln.            % Of GDP                    Po.Sh Mln.)         % of GDP
1973          1973         19697               -            1973         1     3
Current Receipts                    497.8                                            609.5
Current Expenditure                 414.7                                            585.2
Current Surplus                                  2..            .. 
Capital Expenditures                327.0          .                                 550.03/
External Assistance (net)           247.0          .             ,                   525.0
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES  -/              1969          1970        1971         1972        1973       1974     1975
Tllion SoShoutstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                                   466          391         518          608        783    1005.1
Bank credit to Public Sector                            100           12          13            5        2.4    -238.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector                           297          254         315          622        916     934.6
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GD,           ..            ..
General Price Index (1966 = lJOO>/         119.1        108.5        108.5       107.4        126.6     151.1     163.0
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                                      -9.8         0           -1.0         17.9      19.4       7.9
Bank credit to Public Sector                             61.8       -28.0        -81.9       -61.5      -52.0    -98.3
Bank credit to Private Sector2/                          27,1       -14.5         24,0        50,2       47,3       2,1
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1 Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first Job.
not available
not applicable
2/ Private sector here includes decentralized, government-owned enterprises.
3/ This is an estimated figure including the Plan investments (about So.Sh. 400 million). Investments for Drought
Rehabilitation (So.Sh. 100-150 million) and other lesser investments not included under the Plan.
4/ Source: Somalia Country Economic Memorandum, 1977.
5/ All data (except C.O.L. index) taken from IMF, IFS.



-22-
Annex 1
Page 4 of 4 pages
SOMALIA
TRADE PAYHMNTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (Average 1971-74)
1972       1973     1974-    1975                                         US $ Mln     %
Exports of Goods, NFS           66.3      71.1      55. al   88.5        Live animals                      28.4     56.3
Imports of Goods, NFS           90.9     140.2     157.4-31 177.6        Bananas                           11.3     22.4
Resource Gap (deficit = -)     -24.6     -69.1    -102.4-_ -89.1         Meat & meat products               4.4      8.7
Hides and skin                     2.8      5.6
Interest Payments (net)          0.2        1.4      1.9
Workers' Remittances              -          -     -16.6-   -21.0-
Other Factor Payments (net)
Net Transfers                   17.2       28.8     44.9    119.8      All other commodities                3.j      6.9
Balance on Current Account      -7.2     -38.9     -72.2      9.7            Total                         au.4      100
Direct Foreign Investment        7.8        4.7      5.6             EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1975
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                  *-        *-       *-                                                          US $ Mln
Amortization                          U_S *
Subtotal                     14.5      27.2      55.7     42.1      Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               433.7
Capital Grants                               -        -        -       Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)                          -                         Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i               -0.8         -        _
Increase in Reserves (+)        18.1_!     -7.0    -10.8     51.8    DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1975_6/
a/ Includes 4alocation ol SDR 2.0 million                                                                      ___
Gr6ss Reserves   end year)
Net Reserves    (end year)                                             Public Debt, incl. guaranteed               4.0
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
F'uel and Related Materials                                             Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                        3.9        5.1      11.7    19.9
of which:   Petrolem         3.9        5.1      11.7    19.9
Exports                         -          -       -
of which:   Petroleum         -         -        -         IBRD/IDA LENDING, ( May     31,    1977)(Uillicn US$)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                           IBRD         IDA
Throuoh  1971   Since April 1973Outstanding & Disbursed                                  -36.15
Th~~~~~~j97l  ~ ~  ~       ril 1973   ~    7       Udisbursed                              -39.2
US $ 1.00             1 So4SR 7.143  US $ 1 -00  - So.Sh 6.295-I  Ud
SoSh 1.00 =US $ 0.140O          SaSh 1.00 = US $0.160                aadn       d     nibre                           53
1/ Estimated elrI
/ Exports f.o.b.
3/ Imports c.i.f.
4/ Trade balance
/ Net non-factor services
6/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of            . . not available
Goods and Non-Factor Services (estimate)
7/ Central Rate (Somalia avails itself of           . not applicable
wider margins); The trade conversion
factor used by IMF is 6.233 So.Sh./US$.
8/ All factor services (net)
9/ Disbursed debt at December 31, 1975 was approximately $250 million
CP-1B, EAN
blay 31, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
A.   Statement of IDA Credits (as of May 31, 1977). 1/
(US$ million)
Amount Undisbursed
No.          Year     Borrower      Purpose                   (Net of cancellations
and exchange adjustments:
Three credits fully disbursed                                         9.7
123-SO            1968     Somalia     Highway-Supplementary
(Afgoi-Baidoa Road)          2.3         0.3
295-SO            1972     Somalia     Highways II (Hargeisa-
Berbera Road)                 9.6        0.3
359-SO            1973      Somalia    Port of Mogadiscio            12.95       1.0
462-SO            1974     Somalia     Trans-Juba Livestock          10.0        7.8
511-SO            1974     Somalia     Second Education               8.0        6.4
586-SO            1975     Somalia     Mogadiscio Port Extension      5.2        1.9
623-SO            1976     Somalia     Drought Rehabilitation         8.0        7.9
635-SO            1976     Somalia     North-West Agriculture        10.0        9.6
Total                         75.75      35.3
of which has been repaid       0.4
Total now held by IDA         75.35
1/   Excludes recently approved Credit 699-SO for Roads III (US$7.0 million)
and Credit 698-SO for the Somali Development Bank (US$5.0 million), which
have not yet been declared effective.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION - SOMALIA I/
Cr. No. 123    Highways Supplement (Afgoi-Baidoa); $2.3 million Credit of
June 26, 1968: Date of Effectiveness: February 25, 1969;
Closing Date: originally December 31, 1971 and postponed
six times to December 31, 1977.
The construction of the Afgoi-Baidoa road was substantially
completed in March 1971. The contractor has submitted four major claims
for arbitration, and the International Chamber of Commerce Arbitration Tri-
bunal has awarded 100% in favor of contractor. The Government believes the
arbitration award was unjust and objects to it. A meeting between Government
and contractor for discussion and resolution of dispute was held recently.
The meeting adjourned with a view to resuming discussions in a second meeting
to be held in the near future.
Cr. No. 295    Highways II (Hargeisa-Berbera); $9.6 million Credit of March 30,
1972; Date of Effectiveness: May 11, 1972; Closing Date:
originally December 31, 1975 and postponed twice to December 31,
1977.
The construction of the Hargeisa-Berbera road has been com-
pleted and opened to traffic. The feasibility study and detailed engineering
for the Hargeisa Boramna Road have also been completed.
Cr. No. 359     Port of Mogadiscio; $12.95 million Credit of March 15, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness; September 10, 1973; Closing Date:
Originally June 30, 1977 and Postponed Once to June 30, 1978.
Cr. No. 586    Mogadiscio Port Extension Project; $5.2 million Credit of
October 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness; January 15, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Substantial completion of civil works including the extension
is expected in September or October 1977, five or six months behind schedule.
Most of the port operating equipment has been delivered and the rest ordered.
The management consultants to the Somali Ports Authority started their work
in April 1976 and are performing well.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
ANINEX II
Page 3
Cr. No. 462    Livestock (Trans-Juba) Project; $10 million Credit of February 20,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Owing to an apparent large increase in project costs and a 50%
decrease in world market prices of quality beef, an in-depth review of the
project was carried out in February 1977. The above review has estimated
a 30% increase in project costs. The study has proposed a smaller fodder
farm, which would still enable the whole project to be implemented within
existing funds. Economic viability will be assured by a change to selling
mainly live cattle for export, which commands a premium over processing and
selling chilled meat on the world beef market. Some tendering problems and
changes in management and consultants may entail small delays in project
implementation.
Cr. No. 511     Second Education Project; $8 million Credit of September 19,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. The
Elementary Teachers Training College is complete and in use. Construction
of remaining nomadic centers, the Academy of Somali Studies and the Fishery
and Marine Institute are scheduled to commence in mid-1977. Procurement of
furniture and equipment is progressing well. Arrangements are under way for
recruiting the three fisheries and marine technical assistance specialists as
well as key project unit specialists. Although the project is proceeding on
schedule, the current estimate of final project cost is about $1 million above
the appraisal estimate including contingencies.
Cr. No. 623    Drought Rehabilitation Program -- Juba-Shebelli Emergency Settle-
ment Scheme; $8 million Credit of July 7, 1976; Date of Effective-
ness: August 31, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The Government has fulfilled the conditions of effectiveness
by enacting the law which established the Settlement Development Authority,
by appointing the Authority's General 'Manager and by opening an account for
the Authority. A contract has been signed with a consultant firm which will
manage the land clearing and development operations. Detailed lists of re-
quired equipment have been prepared and procurement will be initiated shortly.
Educational and medical facilities are well established on the settlements.
Cr. No. 635    North-West Region Agricultural Development Project; $10 million
Credit of July 7, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: February 9, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This Credit became effective with the appointment of a proj-
ect manager and the signing of the consultant team contract. Disbursement
has already commenced and implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 698     Somali Development Bank; $5 million Credit of June 1, 1977;
Planned Date of Effectiveness: August 30, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
This Credit is expected to be declared effective shortly.
Cr. No. 699     Third Highway Project; $7 million Credit of June 1, 1977;
Planned Date of Effectiveness: August 30, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
This Credit is expected to be declared effective shortly.



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SOMALIA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: Seven months
(b) Preparation by: Government of Somalia and UNESCO
(c) Initial discussion with Bank: November 1975
(d) First Bank mission: November 1975
(e) Appraisal mission departure: June 30, 1976
(f) Negotiations: February 1977
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: November 15, 1977
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
1.   A specialist in village technology will be employed by
September 30, 1978, twelve months prior to the estimated
completion date of the earliest Regional Adult Education
and Training Center (para. 40).
2.   By October 30, 1977, the Government will present to the
Association for comment a plan for carrying out a survey of
training needs in the field of public administration and
management, and within the following six months will employ
an appropriate specialist to assist in conducting the survey,
procure all necessary equipment and commence the survey
(para. 44).
3.   By September 30, 1982 (six months prior to the expected date
of project completion), the Government will furnish to the
Association for review the proposed terms of reference for a
committee to evaluate the benefits of the project and will
subsequently establish the said committee in accordance with
the agreed upon terms of reference. Within the following
twelve months, a report on the evaluation of the project will
be furnished to the Association (para. 45).



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
4.   The Government will prepare semi-annual estimates of building
materials required for the project and will ensure timely
clearance of materials upon arrival in port (para. 48).



-4    ~ -  EOPLE S DEMOCRATIC
/< 0     i      E REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
*/- <  iF  T. - ;>  v J           Gulf  of  Aden Oe              -Bereno 
i-I   /  '7C.e,lo         Moi~~~~~~~~~~  Adado  Bosoo
-v-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
- -     I. -- ---Sw ;@e, 5 7; ... )  o  C scuscu   n
J.       T , TG DH E E R
S A N . A G  D  C-4         nderBe,Io
'AA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
n B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EINLBUDRE
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MLS
1~~~~           A  Y . OfI  URIS \S,ABE                       a, j -.1 
1P B {ll-r"^-, 03 R! 3|1 | lJ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i/Gciroe 11~V IdI,VEUS
wow Lrzna os F4L a l |  W  W   !  > {84  D U G        t
; I E rS\~.r ~m mn                A   D  \) A  A -
k   JE_  ~~~~~~~~ s   Y  .- _   I   /     _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ BITUMINOUS SURFACED ROADS
;.<   y  X   IV   , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ' U   /  / ~~~~GRVE/EARTH SURFACED ROADS
' -. - 7S X B ~~~~~~~~~~J%/OL\i REGIONAI BOUNDARIES
j U4    I' Bulo B             *  A -i
G~a\,D, ,obso  -D0 15-2 0  THIR  SOMLI
K                       ED~~~~~~~~~~~B  UCTIONRNA PROJECT~S4-
f  N   \   S   //  g    /    Kl~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~LOMETERS I   , 
\Bododdo~~~~~~~~~~~yoo                                10    10   1~ ~
Aud   Bur Ac 4ENTRAs.
;G E D 0     (      C-1      C-6tJwo/
I (\A aDl~~~~~~~~~~nSor                                        .f\|iSoo ....1. II....lfil j .....s7I I s 1hl 
?] si r<,lBdirdero~ I       C      3 - YJBNADIR l a.a..mlb
CENRA                        a ICT'   OMLA1i
\. V  >           THIRD EDUDj,,.L  *CATIO  PRJCN|z>F7E
\ U4 Bt A   SH         '3 D I



