Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7280-CO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Third Programmatic Fiscal and Institutional 
Development Policy Loan) 
 
between the 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 4, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7280-CO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated April 4, 2005, between the REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
(the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to the loans provided to the Borrower under the Loan 
Agreements dated March 19, 2003 (Loan No. 7163-CO) and November 24, 2003 (Loan 
No. 7201-CO), the Bank provided assistance to the Borrower in support of the first and 
second phases of the Borrower's program of actions, objectives and policies for fiscal and 
institutional reform, covering fiscal sustainability, public expenditure management, 
institutional reform and management of public liabilities (the Program), as such program 
was described in the letters, dated January 20, 2003, and October 20, 2003, from the 
Borrower to the Bank; 
 
(B) 
the Bank has received a letter, dated October 30, 2004, from the 
Borrower: (i) describing its macroeconomic framework and the Program as revised since 
the date of the second letter referred to in (A) above, which Program consists of actions 
taken under the first and second phases referred to in (A) above, actions taken as 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Third Phase of the Program), and actions 
and policies that the Borrower intends to take and adopt in the future; (ii) declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the objectives of the Program; and (iii) requesting assistance 
from the Bank in support of the Third Phase of the Program during the execution thereof;  
 
(C) 
the Borrower has maintained a macroeconomic policy framework 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(D) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Third Phase of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making 
the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) as hereinafter provided; 
and 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Page  3
-
2
-
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
 
“
‘Project’ means the third phase of the program, referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is 
made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency. The Bank, at the request and acting as an 
agent of the Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn 
from the Loan Account such currencies as shall be required to meet 
payments to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.” 
 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted in its entirety and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified 
above), 9.08 and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) “Central 
Bank” 
means 
Banco de la República, 
the Borrower’s central 
bank; 
 
(b) 
“Combined Public Sector” means the sum of the following: (i) overall 
balances of the Borrower’s non-financial public sector; (ii) the operating cash result 
(quasi-fiscal balance) of the Central Bank; (iii) the overall balance of 
Fondo de Garantías 
de Instituciones Financieras
 (FOGAFIN),
 
the Borrower’s Guarantee Fund for Financial 
Page  4
-
3
-
Institutions; and (iv) the net fiscal costs borne by the Borrower’s central administration 
and the rest of the Borrower’s non-financial public sector related to financial sector 
restructuring; 
 
(c) “CONPES 
means 
Consejo Nacional de Política Económica y Social,
 the 
Borrower’s National Council for Economic and Social Policy; 
 
(d) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(e) “DNP” 
means 
Departamento Nacional de Planeación
,
the Borrower’s 
National Planning Department; 
 
(f) 
“GDP” means the Borrower’s gross domestic product; and 
 
(g) “MHCP” 
means 
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público
,
the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Public Credit. 
 
ARTICLE
 
II
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred 
million Dollars ($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of one hundred million 
Dollars ($100,000,000) from the Loan Account in support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree: (i) all withdrawals from the 
Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an account designated by the Borrower 
and acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of 
an amount of the Loan into said account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank.  
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank determines at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to 
make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment to the Bank. 
Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 
 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account unless the Bank 
has received payment in full of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as 
may be determined by the Bank from time to time. Such fee shall be payable not later 
than sixty (60) days after the Effective Date. 
 
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07.  Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09.  (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01(a) of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Bank may, from time to 
time, reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
 
(b) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, 
adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action listed in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination
 
Section 5.01.  The date July 5, 2005, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit 
 
Carrera 7-A. No. 6-45, Piso 8 
 
Bogotá, República de Colombia
 
Facsimile:  (57-1) 350-9344 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  8
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
 
By  /s/ Bernardo Ortiz Bravo 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/ Pamela Cox 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1.  
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
 
2.  
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 - 
 
Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 - 
 
Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
 
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
Page  10
-
9
-
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery  
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 - 
 
Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
4. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
 
5. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
6.  
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation.
 
Page  11
-
10 -
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Third Phase of the Program 
 
1. (a) 
The execution of the Borrower’s national central government budget for 
the year 2004 through September 30, 2004 has been in line with the overall deficit limits 
set forth in the Borrower’s approved budget for 2004. 
 
(b) 
The overall deficit of the Combined Public Sector through September 30, 
2004 is consistent with the deficit target of 2.3% of GDP for said year. 
 
(c) 
The overall debt to GDP ratio of the Borrower’s public sector at the end 
of the year 2004 has not exceeded 47% of GDP. 
 
2. 
Law No. 863, of December 29, 2003, which approved a reform of the Borrower’s 
tax system (
Estatuto Tributario
), has accelerated the phase-out of tax exemptions of 
profits of certain categories of firms. 
 
3. 
The administrative costs of the Borrower’s National Directorate of Taxes and 
Customs (
Dirección de Impuestos y Aduanas Nacionales
)
have not exceeded 0.96% of 
the amount of taxes and duties collected by such Directorate, during the year 2004. 
 
4. 
Increase of Borrower tax revenues by at least 0.3% of GDP during the period 
from the year 2003 to the year 2004 is attributable to improvements in tax administration. 
 
5. 
The Borrower has established, pursuant to Decree (
Decreto
)
No. 1830, of June 3, 
2004, and begun the operation of 
Comisión Intersectorial de Gestión de Activos Fijos
 
Públicos
,
the Borrower’s commission responsible for the management of the Borrower’s 
fixed assets. 
 
6. 
The Borrower has implemented, in the Borrower’s Ministry of the Interior and 
Justice and MHCP, the policies and actions for legal defense of the Borrower’s 
administration established in CONPES document number 3250, dated October 20, 2003. 
 
7. 
The Borrower’s Executive Branch has submitted to the Borrower’s Congress Bill 
of Law No. 194/2003 C, which provides for a new organic budget code (
Ley Orgánica 
del Presupuesto
)
which, inter alia: (i) mandates a medium-term expenditure framework; 
(ii) reduces budgetary inflexibilities; (iii) narrows the definition of social expenditures; 
and (iv) enhances the role of MHCP in regulating public expenditure aggregates. 
 
8. 
The Borrower has restructured the National Royalties Fund (
Fondo Nacional de 
Regalías
), pursuant to Decree (
Decreto
)
No. 195, of January 26, 2004, and has allocated 
the necessary funding from said Fund to sustain places created for new students in 2003.
 
9. 
The Borrower has established, pursuant to Decree (
Decreto
)
No. 3620, of 
November 9, 2004, 
Comisión Intersectorial de Contratación Pública
,
the Borrower’s 
commission responsible for establishing common guidelines for, and evaluating and 
monitoring, procurement of goods, works and services by the Borrower’s public sector. 
 
Page  12
-
11 -
 
10. 
(a) 
The contracts (
Convenios Interadministrativos de Gestión
)
entered into 
among MHCP, the Borrower’s Ministry of Social Protection and DNP: and (i) the 
Borrower’s National Training Service (
Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
); and (ii) the 
Colombian Family Welfare Institute (
Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar
), 
signed on October, 2003, for the purposes of improving the services provided by the 
latter two agencies in accordance with the targets and indicators set forth in the strategic 
plans of such agencies for the period 2003-2006, are being implemented as agreed, based 
on DNP evaluation reports issued in October, 2004. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower has identified, pursuant to a letter from the Deputy 
General Director of DNP, dated February 16, 2005 the following agencies: 
Superintendencia Nacional de Salud; Instituto Colombiano para el Desarrollo y la 
Ciencia; Instituto de Investigación e Informática Geo-científica, Minero-ambiental y 
Nuclear; Electrificadora de Santander; Instituto Colombiano de Crédito Educativo y 
Estudios Técnicos en el Exterior; Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadística; 
and
 Instituto Geográfico Agustín Codazzi
,
from which 4 shall enter into contracts with 
MHCP, the Borrower’s relevant sector Ministry and DNP, for the same purposes of the 
contracts referred to in (a) above. 
 
11. 
A baseline and a subset of progress indicators for monitoring progress and final 
goals of the Borrower’s administration reform process have been applied to the reforms 
achieved to date and have been made publicly  available. 
Page  13
-
12 -
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each June 15 and December 15 
 
Beginning December 15, 2013 
 
through June 15,  2018 
10% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two (2) calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
 
Page  14
-
13 -
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
