Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  31834 
Operation Name 
PROGRAMMATIC FISCAL AND INSTITUTIONAL 
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN III 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (60%);Sub-national 
government administration (20%);Law and justice (10%);General 
education sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P084762 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Environment Assessment 
OD 4.01 applies?  [ ] Yes  [x ] No 
Date PID Prepared 
February 16, 005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
November 4, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
March 17, 2005 
I. 
Country and Sector Background 
The near stagnation of 1998-2002, has given way to economic recovery and continued 
strengthening of consumer confidence.  Fueled by an increase in real investment of almost 5 
percent, real economic growth more than doubled from 1.6 percent in 2002 to 3.9 percent in 
2003.  From January to September of 2004, real GDP rose by an estimated 3.6 percent year-on-
year, led by output gains in retail sales, construction and industrial production.  Higher economic 
growth has lowered Colombia’s unemployment rate from 17.2 percent in 2002 to 11.7 percent in 
November 2004 (which is the lowest unemployment rate in the last four years.)  While the 
consolidated fiscal deficit for 2003 was 2.7 percent of GDP (a slippage of 0.2 % from the target 
in the IMF agreement), the latest preliminary figures show a projected deficit for 2004 of only 
2.3 percent, which is below the target in the stand-by agreement with the IMF.  Given these 
fiscal improvements, the government now anticipates GDP to grow by 4 percent in 2004.  The 
higher than expected growth, strength of the peso, and ample liquidity in the TES (Peso-
denominated Treasury Bonds) market, should help alleviate some of the fiscal pressures, 
reducing government reliance on investment cuts and helping to stabilize the public debt 
dynamics for 2004.  
Total investment was 15.5 percent of GDP in 2003, with private investment at about 7 percent.  
Investment in 2004 is expected to remain constant at around 15.5 percent of GDP.  Since 2002, 
construction has increased approximately 20%, thereby spearheading the economic recovery of 
the past two years.  In addition, inflation fell from 6.5 percent in 2002 to 6 percent in 2003, and 
decreased further to 5.5 percent in 2004
1
.
Largely as a result of oil sales, Colombia’s exports increased 9.9 percent in 2003, while 
preliminary figures show an increase of 11.2 percent in 2004.  Although the country’s 
nontraditional exports (mainly manufactured goods and cut flowers), performed well in recent 
years and now represent over half of all merchandise exports, the appreciation of the peso and 
1
As reported in the December 2004 
Banco de la República
 inflation bulletin, found at 
http://www.banrep.gov.co/inflaci/2004/Res_inflaci_dic_04.pdf 
Page  2
the slow economic recovery in the United States and other major trading partners tempered 
export growth in 2004.  Through mid-April 2004, the government and central bank took 
measures to avoid a contraction in exports by slowing the appreciation of the peso.  Despite these 
efforts, increased domestic demand for imports outstripped export growth and thereby widened 
the trade deficit.  As a result, while the 2003 current account deficit was estimated at 
approximately 1.8 percent of GDP, preliminary figures show that it has increased to 2.2 percent 
of GDP in 2004.  
7.      
Fiscal Performance
.
Over the past half-decade, new realities have emerged in 
Colombia’s fiscal accounts, including significant deficits and large future liabilities.  The rapid 
expansion of public sector spending throughout the past decade, (from 25 percent of  GDP in 
1990 to over a third today) combined with growing pension and other liabilities, have led to 
significant and persistent structural deficits.  As public spending rapidly surpassed the 
Government’s revenue-generating capacity, much of the fiscal deficit was increasingly financed 
with debt, both domestic and external.  Today, Colombia’s total public sector debt represents 
around 47 percent of GDP. 
8.       Despite its commitment to continue the fiscal adjustment efforts introduced by the 
previous administration, the government was unable to accelerate fiscal adjustment during the 
first years of its mandate.  As a result, the 2003 fiscal deficit for the combined public sector 
would only decline to 2.7 percent of GDP by year’s end, thereby falling short of the 2.5 percent 
target agreed with the IMF.  The government sought and was granted a waiver of this particular 
performance criteria.   
9.      
Nonetheless, the Uribe Administration has made significant improvements on the fiscal 
front.  In December 2002, Law 788 was approved.  Passage of this FIAL-supported Law: (i) 
eliminated some of the exemptions and expanded the tax base for the value-added tax; (ii) 
reduced the wage exemption under the personal income tax while furthermore establishing a 
ceiling on it;
2
and (iii) phased out the corporate income tax exemption for capital gains from 
sales of stock, mutual funds, real estate, and profits from previously privileged corporate forms, 
contracts, funds, or bonds.  Although Tax Reform Law 788 of December 2002 established a 
framework for tax reform and introduced significant advances towards reducing prevailing 
inefficiencies and distortions in the Colombian tax system, it also comprised a number of 
distortional measures that were necessary to meet short-term revenue targets.  Passage of this 
legislation has introduced additional revenues totaling 0.7 percent of GDP in 2003 and 
approximately 1.1 percent of GDP in 2004.  
10. 
 
 
 
 
 On December 29, 2003 Congress passed Law 863, which introduced further 
improvements in tax policy, but also introduced new distortions to the tax system.  This measure 
was necessary in part to fill the fiscal gap left by the failure of key measures, in particular the 
2003 referendum, which included important expenditure containment reforms.  This Law 
included desirable measures such as the acceleration of the phase-out schedule of certain tax 
exemptions, but also added distortions such as an increase in the financial transactions tax of 0.1 
percent. 
11.      On the expenditure front, public expenditures have been growing rapidly, mainly due to 
the structural rigidities of the budget system, high debt service obligations, and massive and 
increasing transfers to the pensions system.  The government is undertaking or promoting 
2
The ceiling includes all forms of compensation and thus reduces incentives for non-taxed compensation to 
employees. 
Page  3
important measures to contain this expansion in two main fronts:  Pensions reform and 
r
estructuring of the public sector.  Colombia’s budget is extremely rigid.  Transfers to both 
subnational governments and the pensions system have constituted the most substantial 
expenditure increases throughout the last decade.   
12.      
Pensions Reform
.
Colombia has a Constitutionally-mandated pay-as-you-go pensions 
system managed through the 
Instituto de Seguridad Social
 (ISS.)  Although the system 
underwent reforms in 1993 through Law 100, it is still generating major deficits that need to be 
covered through large central government transfers.  Law 100 addressed issues of low 
contributions and overly generous retirement benefits; however, it did not take into consideration 
demographic changes (it calculated an average payout lifetime of 15 years, which has now 
reached close to 26) and did not eliminate a number of very expensive special regimes.  Over the 
last five years, average contributions to the system have remained constant at 1.1% of GDP, 
while pay-outs have been increasing from 4.4% in 2000 to 5.7% in 2004.  In the absence of an 
additional reform, the cash-flow deficit of 4.6% of GDP in 2004 is projected to continue its 
upward trend over the next years, peaking at around 6.3% of GDP in 2018. 
13.      In the second semester of 2004, the government presented a proposed constitutional 
amendment to Congress aimed at increasing the overall sustainability of Colombia’s pensions 
system.  This proposal requires eight legislative debates and is scheduled to be passed by June 
2005.  Among the key elements of this proposal are the following: (i) introduction of a mandate 
of financial sustainability of the pensions system into the Constitution; (ii) elimination of special 
regimes; (iii) ineligibility of negotiating pensions issues in collective bargaining agreements; (iv) 
elimination of the 14th salary (
mesada 14
); and (v) cap on individual pension entitlements of the 
equivalent of 25 minimum wages.  The government estimates that these measures will reduce the 
pensions system imbalances significantly, leading to a reduction of about 30 percent in the net 
present value of the accumulated operational deficit.  The reform has passed four out of the eight 
reforms. Congress has postponed the transition period from 2008 to 2010, therefore the reduction 
in the net present value of the accumulated operation deficit has declined to about 23.4 percent of 
GDP.    
Pubic Sector Restructuring
.
Colombia is undergoing a major reform of the state exercise. One 
of the common problems afflicting public entities is that liabilities continue to surpass assets.  
Throughout the 1990s, the Government began closing a number of public sector entities, and in 
the process, ended up with a total liability worth 3.5 percent of GDP -- mostly attributable to 
pensions. Hence a major challenge to be tackled by the Uribe administration was to continue the 
process of closing and/or modernizing public entities without generating a large liability.  By 
August 2004, 142 entities were restructured (including the closure of 30 entities.)  This process 
has already generated approximately US$150 million in gross savings, and a net savings of 
US$34 million (once severance and other costs are deducted.)   The net present value of the 
liabilities of the entities comprising this modernization program is estimated to be worth 
approximately 2 percent of GDP
3
.
14.      It is important to highlight that the modernization of public entities has not been limited 
to the elimination of posts.  One case in point was that of ECOPETROL, where the latter’s 
regulatory function was transferred to the 
Agencia Nacional de Hidrocarburos
 (Hydrocarbon 
National Agency).  Another case was that of TELECOM, where upon terminating all of this 
agency’s workers, the government proceeded to hire new ones.  In the past, TELECOM 
3
Source:  DNP 
Page  4
employed approximately 7,000 workers, and was responsible for around 16,000 pensioners, 
which created a huge problem in its pension system. Following the restructuring, TELECOM 
now generates sufficient profits to fully cover pension liabilities.  Other firms like TELECOM 
are being modernized and restructured in the same manner. 
15.      Another relevant measure that is currently under study relates to the restructuring of the 
public hospital network. The health sector is characterized by an excess supply of public 
hospitals and a poorly integrated healthcare network. The goal of the reform in this sector is to 
adjust the supply of public hospitals in such a way that different levels of attention are duly 
covered, while generating operational savings at the same time.   To this end, Colombia will seek 
to close excess public hospitals while restructuring others. This reform is supported by a US$100 
million IDB-sponsored loan. 
16.       Despite the difficulties in adjusting the big-ticket expenditure items in the short term, the 
government has succeeded in reducing both its deficit and its debt stock.  The overall deficit was 
reduced from 3.7 percent of GDP in 2002 to a projected 2.3 percent of GDP in 2004.  Likewise, 
the net debt stock was reduced from 54.2 percent of GDP in 2002 to a projected 46.6 percent of 
GDP in 20
04.
Although Colombia’s fiscal stance looks much better than two years ago, it 
nonetheless remains vulnerable.  Much of the improvement evidenced in 2004 can be attributed 
to the favorable external environment -- particularly high oil prices and capital inflows which 
together have substantially appreciated the peso.  The increase in the operating surplus of the 
state petroleum enterprise (ECOPETROL) that resulted from a combination of increased export 
revenues and a 20 percent hike in domestic gasoline and diesel fuel prices, played a key role in 
shoring up total revenues in 2004.   The unlikelihood that current high oil prices will be sustained 
poses the risk of reversing gains made by these non-tax revenues; hence the importance of the 
success of the pensions reform and further efficiency gains in the public sector to maintain a 
sustainable fiscal path in the long term. 
17.       Colombia's vulnerability to external shocks has declined since early 2003, but the country 
continues to face significant challenges.  Although its sovereign debt spreads have narrowed 
substantially since the beginning of the year in absolute and relative terms compared to the 
emerging market average, Colombia remains susceptible to: (i) the uncertainty surrounding its 
domestic security problems; (ii) a slowdown in global growth; and (iii) the political and 
economic problems prevailing in Venezuela (its largest export market.)  Nonetheless, given its 
floating exchange rate, falling inflation, improving growth, and adequate international reserves, 
Colombia should be well equipped to deal with moderate shocks as it undertakes the fiscal 
adjustment. 
18.      
Overall Progress to Date.
 
Throughout the past two years, the Government has shown a 
high level of commitment and resilience in pursuing the reforms supported by the FIAL 
program.   The public debt to GDP ratio has declined from 59.5 to 55.6 percent as a result of 
both macroeconomic policies and real exchange rate changes.  Colombia is expected to continue 
to make headway on the fiscal front.  The non- financial public sector balance is projected to 
decrease from 2.3 percent of GDP in 2004 to 1.6 percent of GDP in 2007, while the primary 
balance is expected to improve from 2.3 percent of GDP in 2004 to 3.3 percent of GDP.   
Improvement in the fiscal balance should place total debt on a sustainable path.  Total debt is 
expected to decline from a projected 46.6 percent of GDP in 2004 to about 43 percent of GDP in 
2006.  In June 2004, the government published its first medium term fiscal outlook (MTFF),  
which shows that the government expects to cut total public debt to 39 percent of GDP in 2015 
under a baseline scenario.  The Government’s MTFF as well as IMF and Bank debt sustainability 
Page  5
analyses alike reveal that to guarantee longer fiscal sustainability, the government needs a 
primary balance of 3 percent. The Government’s program calls for increased external financing 
in 2005, with net borrowing of about $1.5 billion.  Net disbursements from multilaterals will 
increase through 2007, with the bulk of the increase coming from the World Bank.
 
19.      The tax reform supported by FIAL has shown important results and statistics show that 
revenue has increased substantially.  Nonetheless, the government is still considering further 
measures to raise revenue while observing international best practices in tax policy.  To 
complement the tax reform and as a prelude to the upcoming budget reform, Congress approved 
the Fiscal Responsibility Law, which sets out important principles for fiscal sustainability and 
transparency.   
20.      Expenditure-side reforms are more complex and some will only show results in the 
medium or long term.  However, some indicators that show that the reform process is on track 
are the following: (i) the government has taken the overhaul of its budgeting system very 
seriously and has obtained assistance from the Bank, the IMF, and other entities in designing the 
new budget law that was submitted to Congress in December 2003; (ii) the 2004 and 2005 
Budget Bills that were submitted to Congress incorporated substantial improvements in terms of 
medium-term planning and the provision of useful information for fiscal analysis; (iii) the 2004 
Medium-Term Fiscal Framework was issued for the first time in compliance with the Fiscal 
Responsibility Law; (iv) strategies have been defined and institutional arrangements established 
to oversee areas such as asset management, legal defense of the state, and public sector 
procurement; and (v) an innovative management system is being piloted to enhance 
accountability for results. 
II. Operation 
Objectives 
21.      The Fiscal and Institutional Reform Program has two overriding objectives: first, to 
promote reforms addressing fiscal rigidities necessary to attain the substantial fiscal adjustment 
underlying sustainable macroeconomic stability; and second, to improve the provision of public 
services and establish the institutional basis for higher efficiency and accountability in public 
expenditure.   
22.      The specific objectives of the FIAL program are to: (i) increase tax revenue and reduce 
distortions in the tax system; (ii) modernize the tax administration; (iii) promote the development 
of a sound fiscal responsibility legal framework; (iv) reduce losses and generate revenues 
through improved asset management; (v) prevent massive losses to the State from judicial 
claims; (vi) improve budget management with modern tools and legal reforms; (vii) develop 
incentives for efficiency gains in sub national entities; (viii) strengthen the public sector 
procurement system; (ix) improve performance through management contracts for agencies; and 
(x) support a coherent and comprehensive reform implementation process. 
23.      The proposed loan is the third in the Fiscal and Institutional Adjustment Loan program.  
This loan will focus on the following areas: (i) acceleration of the phase-out of income tax 
exemptions for certain firms; (ii) reduction in tax evasion by 0.3% of GDP from 2003 to 2004, 
while keeping DIAN administrative costs per peso collected below 0.96%; (iii) submission to 
Congress of a new Organic Budget Code that modernizes the budget process and complements 
the Fiscal Responsibility Law; (iv) improvements in royalty allocations through the restructuring 
of the National Royalty Fund; (v) implementation of the legal defense of the State policy; (vi) the 
establishment of regulatory bodies for both procurement and asset management; (vii) compliance 
Page  6
with the pilot management contracts entered into with ICBF and SENA; and (viii) further 
progress in the monitoring system for the public sector reform process. 
 
III. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
24.      Under its objective of achieving fast and sustainable growth, the CAS approved in 
December 2002 indicates that: “The main objective of the IBRD’s strategy in terms of the 
macroeconomic framework would be to support Colombia’s continued fiscal adjustment, 
including the quality of the adjustment, as key for achieving faster and sustainable growth.”  To 
support this objective, the IBRD, in close collaboration with the IMF and the IDB, is preparing a 
Programmatic series of Fiscal and Institutional Adjustment Loans (FIAL I-IV) totaling US$900 
million,  to support fiscal adjustment, including reforming the tax system, strengthening the tax 
administration, implementing a fiscal responsibility law and reforming the public sector.  These 
operations will support measures to reduce tax exemptions and expenditure rigidities while 
ensuring better quality and coverage of public services and investment.   
IV. Financing 
25.      The proposed loan would represent the third in a series of four single tranche 
programmatic adjustment loans totaling US$900 million.  The first single-tranche structural 
adjustment loan, in an amount of US$300 million was approved by the Board on March 18, 
2003.  The second loan of the program, for an amount of US$150 million, was approved on 
November 28, 2003.  This third loan would constitute a US$100 million fixed spread, U.S.-
dollar-denominated loan, to be disbursed in a single tranche to the Republic of Colombia in 
March 2005, with a total repayment term of 13.5 years including a 8.5 years grace period.   
V. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
26.      The FIAL program is being implemented by the Ministry of Finance (MHCP) with the 
support of the National Planning Department (DNP).  MHCP will ensure the full execution of the 
policy measures and “triggers” established in the program.  These activities will be carried out in 
close coordination with DNP. 
27.      Given the size and relative complexity of the program, the General Vice-Minister of 
Finance, working closely with the Deputy Director of DNP, will be responsible for strategic 
management of the program.  These two agencies have the consensus-building capacity and 
political, technical, and operational support required to assume this responsibility.  Both are part 
of CONFIS, participate actively in Congressional debates and Cabinet meetings, and serve as 
counterparts to the IMF and other multilateral agencies as representatives of the Finance Minister 
and the Director of DNP.  In addition, the Vice-Minister of Finance and the Deputy Director of 
DNP are responsible for the execution of MAFP-II and its respective institutions.  They will be 
capable of establishing synergies and synchronizing the parallel development of MAFP-II and 
FIAL-II. 
28.      Strategic management of the program will involve the following actions: (i) serving as 
the interlocutor of the national government with the Bank; (ii) supporting and managing the 
fulfillment of the policy actions of the various program components; (iii) coordinating the 
development of the planned actions and reforms with those responsible within the various 
entities; and (iv) compiling and sending the technical, legal, and administrative information 
required for the execution of the policy measures of the program. 
Page  7
Division of Responsibilities for Program Components 
Component 
Unit with Operational Responsibility 
Fiscal Performance 
MHCP/CONFIS 
Tax Reform and Tax Administration 
MHCP/DIAN 
Budget Reform 
MHCP/Budget Department  
Management Contracts and Incentives for Efficiency 
DNP/Social Development Department, SENA, 
and ICBF 
Legal Defense of the State 
Ministry of Justice and Interior (Vice-Minister) 
Public Sector Procurement 
DNP/Legal Advisory Group 
Asset Management 
DNP/Infrastructure Department 
Public Sector Reform 
DNP/Public Administration Reform Program 
Monitoring and Evaluation of State Reform 
DNP/SINERGIA and MHCP/CONFIS  
Fiscal Responsibility Law 
MHCP/Technical Vice-Minister 
29.       For the development of the duties required for the strategic management of the program, 
the Vice-Minister of Finance has the support of professionals within the Superior Council of 
Fiscal Policy (CONFIS) and within the general directorates of Macroeconomic Policy, Taxes and 
Customs (DIAN), Public Credit, Budget, and the Treasury.  For the development of the duties 
that correspond to DNP, DNP has the support of professionals in the directorates of the Public 
Administration Reform Program, Infrastructure, Social Development, Justice and Defense, 
External Credit, and Results Evaluation. 
30.      As part of the planned measures in FIAL, the government has developed a system to 
monitor and evaluate state reform, and has announced monitoring indicators for public sector 
reform progress on the DNP website.  The follow up and evaluation of FIAL-III results will be 
undertaken by (i) the DNP (for components of Asset Management, Legal Defense of the State, 
Procurement, Management Contracts, and Management of the Reform Process), through the 
Evaluation System for Public Management (SINERGIA); and (ii) MHCP/CONFIS (for 
components of Tax Reform, Tax Administration, Fiscal Responsibility, Budget Reform, 
Incentives for Efficiency Gains, and Management of the Reform).  The results of FIAL-III will 
comprise part of the findings of the government’s National Development Plan for 2002–2006, 
and will be reported on in the President’s annual report to Congress.  The government has the 
mandate to follow up in terms of effectiveness, productivity, and efficacy, and the results of the 
follow-up and evaluation will be reported to the Bank by means of periodic reports. 
VI. Benefits 
and 
Risks 
31.      
Benefits
.
Each of the proposed measures under the FIAL program carries fiscal 
implications.  The reforms are projected to improve the overall balance of the non-financial 
public sector (NFPS) by 1.98 percent
 
of
GDP in 2004, relative to the alternative without reforms.  
Continued pursuit of the reforms, which the proposed programmatic operation will support is 
projected to generate a fiscal benefit of over two percent of GDP by 2006.   
32.       Given the weight of longer term reforms, the package of measures supported by the FIAL 
III would prevent—and reverse—an otherwise unsustainable debt and debt service accumulation, 
while also protecting social sector expenditures and vulnerable groups.  The non-financial public 
sector deficit is expected to be cut almost in half by the year 2006.  If no reforms were 
implemented or if these reforms were seriously delayed, the NFPS would remain on an 
unsustainable path, and probably spiral into protracted-increasing deficits.   
Page  8
33.       The proposed FIAL will contribute to poverty reduction at all levels.  It will help protect 
the macroeconomic framework of the country by reducing the likelihood of widespread 
government fiscal crises.  The various reforms supported through the FIAL are aimed at 
sustaining economic recovery, consolidating economic growth in the medium and long term, and 
reducing poverty.  Through its fiscal strengthening program, (particularly the adoption of tax 
reform measures) the FIAL also seeks to ensure that more resources become available and are 
allocated to social programs and to reduce the insecurity that particularly affects those lacking 
the resources to protect themselves.  This is especially pertinent in the areas of education and 
health where fiscal strengthening would increase the overall availability and provision of such 
public resources to the poor.  Finally, the FIAL would support measures to improve the 
efficiency and coverage of these services to this target group.  The latter would be achieved 
though better budgeting, M&E and greater transparency in the procurement and delivery of 
public goods and services.    
34.      
Risks
.
The Government’s program faces a number of internal risks, not least of which is 
the ongoing debate on a constitutional amendment to allow the sitting president to run for re-
election.  Although this campaign continues to dominate the political scenario and has hampered 
passage of key legislation for the reform process, this risk is being mitigated by the Government 
primarily through the subscription of 
Acuerdos Políticos
 
–
agreements with the main 
Congressional groups, which offer timely processing of key reforms, including some supported 
by the FIAL program.  
35.      A further challenge to the program’s long term success has resulted from the 
Government’s inability so far, to contain expenditure to the levels originally envisioned by the 
program. This has been due, to several factors, including the failure of the Referendum, the 
constitutional challenge to the freeze in wages, and ballooning expenditures for pensions 
payments and debt service.  To date, fiscal sustainability is being maintained via increases in 
revenue, which are in turn higher than those originally envisioned. However, structural 
expenditure measures will have to be taken sooner rather than later to retain fiscal balances in 
check.  Although significant obstacles remain, the government is pursuing a number of venues to 
contain expenditure, most noteworthy of which in the short term, is the pensions reform initiative 
that is now in Congress, which seeks to eliminate certain very privileged special pensions 
regimes.  In the medium to long term, it is expected that the vertical and horizontal elements of 
the public sector reform agenda will help contain expenditure levels.  
36.       The overall program could also find itself vulnerable to possible deterioration in the fiscal 
situation due to either external or internal shocks. The World Bank program and that of the IMF 
and IDB are intended to lessen this risk by demonstrating active, visible support of the 
government’s proposed fiscal and public sector adjustments.  The macroeconomic situation may 
also be weakened by external factors such as regional political or economic instability or further 
deterioration of the terms of trade.  Although few mitigation measures can be taken against 
external shocks, the country is in a good position in terms of international reserves and its 
medium-term fiscal framework – endorsed by the Bank and the IMF – establishes a path towards 
sustainable public finances. 
37.      In two important areas of the reform – procurement and asset management – there is a 
need to create and/or strengthen institutions to assume regulatory functions in these areas.  
However, there is a strong aversion to creating institutions given the current downsizing 
environment. This risk is being mitigated through the creation of two key institutions – the 
regulatory bodies for procurement and asset management – through Presidential Decree in the 
Page  9
form of inter-sectoral commissions.  They have proven to be effective in their assigned tasks.  In 
the interest of institutional development, the Government has prepared and submitted legislation 
to solidify their legal framework 
38.      Finally, Colombia remains notorious for its alarming indices of violence, derived from 
both the conflict with illegal armed groups and common crime.  Moreover, although good 
progress is being made in lowering national crime rates and in quelling conflicts with guerilla 
groups and para-military factions, an increase in violence throughout the country could lead the 
government to re-direct attention away from the reforms supported under the program toward an 
escalated security plan, which could in turn, compromise the pace of reforms. This risk has been 
mitigated through the reduction in the key violence and insecurity indicators over the last two 
years. The government has strengthened its position in the armed conflict and there is a 
widespread feeling that this trend will continue.  Furthermore, negotiations with the paramilitary 
groups are moving forward and there is a real prospect of a de-militarization of at least some of 
these groups in the near future. 
Page  10
VII.  Poverty Category and Environment Aspects 
39.      Although FIAL measures may have a short-term negative effect on unemployment and 
income distribution (albeit mitigated through substantial social expenditure), the long-term effect 
will unquestionably be pro-poor.  First, it will help protect the macroeconomic framework of the 
country by reducing the likelihood of widespread government fiscal crises.  This is important 
since, as noted, th
e
Bank’s analysis shows that negative macro shocks are the most important 
cause of poverty increases in Colombia.  Second, FIAL will also ensure that through the fiscal 
strengthening program, in particular the tax reforms, more resources will become available to 
help ensure the allocation of adequate public resources to social programs and reduce the 
insecurity that affects particularly those that lack the resources to protect themselves.  This is 
especially pertinent for education and health, facilitating the provision of public services for the 
poor.  Third, FIAL supports measures to improve the efficiency and coverage of these services, 
benefiting the poor directly.  This is to be achieved through better budgeting, the results 
agreements and their evaluation, and more transparent procurement.  Together these should 
ensure that essential public services are more efficiently available to those who could not 
otherwise obtain them on their own. 
40.       One issue that was brought up as part of the Bank safeguards assessment during FIAL II 
was the elimination of the capital gains (or “occasional gains”) tax exemption for individuals 
involuntarily selling their property to the State for public works (through eminent domain).  It is 
believed that through the elimination of this tax exemption, the seller now faces a net patrimonial 
loss once the transaction is completed and taxes are paid
4
.
This discussion has now been taken to 
a
broader arena as part of an overall review of the country’s resettlement policies, in which the 
Bank’s resettlement team is working closely with the government, through the Ministry of 
Housing and Environment.  This effort is expected to produce a broad strategy to address the 
issue of resettlement, including the prevention of net wealth loss to the displaced. 
41.      As regards the program’s environmental rating, there are no specific country policies 
supported by the proposed operation which are likely to cause significant effects on the country’s 
environment, forests, and other natural resources. 
 
VIII. Contact point 
Contact: Mario Francisco Sangines 
Title: Sr Public Sector Mgmt. Spec. 
Tel: 5280+249 
Fax: 326-34-80 
Email: msangines@worldbank.org 
Location: Bogota, Colombia (IBRD) 
 
1.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
4
There is, however, a discussion in progress over whether this constitutes an actual patrimonial loss or if it is an 
anticipated collection on an already accrued liability. 
Page  11
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
