                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 34792-CO

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (TF-53133 FSLT-72800)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION

                                         TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                              COLOMBIA

                                                 FOR A

  PROGRAMMATIC FISCAL AND INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN III




                                           December 28, 2005




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Mexico and Colombia Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective December 21, 2005)

                  Currency Unit = Colombian Pesos
                            100 = US$ 0.04
                          US$ 1 = 2,283.10 Colombian Pesos

                         FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 -    December 31

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA       Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CGN        Contaduría General de la Nación (Accountant General's Office)
CONFIS     Consejo Superior de Política Fiscal (Superior Council of Fiscal Policy)
CONPES     Consejo Nacional de Política Económica y Social (National Council of
                    Economic and Social Policy)
CPAR       Country Procurement Assessment Report
CSR        Commission for State Reform
DAFP       Departamento Administrativo de la Función Pública (Public Service
                     Administrative Department)
DIAN       Dirección de Impuestos y Aduanas Nacionales (National Directorate
                    of Taxes and Customs)
DNP        Departamento Nacional de Planeación (National Planning Department)
FIAL       Programmatic Fiscal and Institutional Adjustment Loan
FNR        Fondo Nacional de Regalías (National
           Royalty Fund)
FRL        Fiscal Responsibility Law
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICBF       Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar (Colombian
                    Family Welfare Institute)
IDB        Inter-American Development Bank
IDF        Institutional Development Facility
IMF        International Monetary Fund
ISS        Instituto de Seguridad Social (Social Security Institute)
IVA        Impuesto al Valor Agregado (Value-added tax)
LIL        Learning and Innovation Loan
MAFP       Modernización de la Administración Financiera Pública (Public Financial
                    Management Project)
MDGs       Millennium Development Goals
MHCP       Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público (Ministry of Finance and
                    Public Credit)
MIJ        Ministerio del Interior y Justicia (Ministry of Interior and Justice)
MTEF       Medium Term Expenditure Framework
MTFF       Medium Term Fiscal Framework
NFPS       Non-Financial Public Sector
OBC        Organic Budget Code

PHRD            Policy and Human Resources Development
PLaRSSAL        Programmatic Labor Reform and Social Sector Adjustment Loan
PRAP            Programa de Renovación de la Administración Pública (Public
                        Administration Renovation Program)
SENA            Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje (National Training Service)
SIIF            Sistema Integrado de Información Financiera (Integrated Financial
                        Information System)
SINERGIA        Sistema Nacional de Evaluación de Resultados (Evaluation System for
                        Public Management)
TAL             Technical Assistance Loan
VAT             Value-added Tax

                     Vice President:    Pamela Cox
                  Country Director      Isabel M. Guerrero
                    Sector Manager      Ronald E. Myers
    Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Mario F. Sangines

                                            COLOMBIA
PROGRAMMATIC FISCAL AND INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN III


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          16
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            28
   6. Sustainability                                                                29
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 30
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               32
   9. Partner Comments                                                              33
   10. Additional Information                                                       59
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             60
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             62
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             63
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             64
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             65
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                66
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            67

Project ID: P084762                                                  Project Name: PROGRAMMATIC FISCAL AND
                                                                     INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
                                                                     LOAN III
Team Leader: Mario Francisco Sangines                                TL Unit: LCSPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 28, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: PROGRAMMATIC FISCAL AND                                  L/C/TF Number: TF-53133; FSLT-72800
                            INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURAL
                            ADJUSTMENT LOAN III
   Country/Department: COLOMBIA                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (60%); Sub-national government administration (20%);
                            Law and justice (10%); General education sector (10%)
                  Theme: Administrative and civil service reform (P); Debt management and fiscal substainability (P);
                            Tax policy and administration (S); Public expenditure, financial management and procurement
                            (S); Law reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/05/2004                                     Effective: 04/26/2005                04/26/2005
     Appraisal: 11/09/2004                                         MTR:
      Approval: 03/22/2005                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David De Ferranti
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:                 Ronald E. Myers                                Ronald E. Myers
Team Leader at ICR:             Mario Sangines                                 Mario Sangines
ICR Primary Author:             Hernan Pfluecker


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
This is the final ICR for the programmatic series of Fiscal and Institutional Adjustment Loans originally
envisioned in the 2002-2006 CAS as four loans totaling $900 million. Following the third loan in the
series, approved in March 2005 for $100 million and a cumulative total of $550 million, the Government
and the Bank agreed to suspend the program. As stated in the CAS Progress Report (CAS PR) of
September 9, 2005 "During the CPPR and CAS PR discussions, the Government and Bank agreed that the
reforms needed to trigger FIAL IV were not likely to be in place by FY06, and decided to redirect funds
earmarked for FIAL IV to operations where reforms were moving more quickly." Although there is the
possibility that FIAL IV might yet be brought back into the Bank's pipeline after FY06, there are no
ongoing discussions regarding this fourth operation nor has it been included in the CAS PR for FY06 or
FY07. These facts led to the decision to submit a complete ICR for the entire FIAL program at this time.
Should FIAL IV be prepared and approved, a revised final ICR would be prepared afterwards which would
replace the overall program assessment presented here.

The objectives and design of the programmatic series of Fiscal and Institutional Adjustment Loans (FIAL)
need to be assessed within the context of: (i) an incoming administration with an ambitious program and an
overwhelming popular mandate, having won the elections with over 50% of the vote in the first round; (ii)
structural fiscal imbalances stemming from a highly distorted tax system and major rigidities in public
expenditure; (iii) an economy barely recovering from the 1999-2000 recession, the first in recent history;
and (iv) a track record of incomplete and/or postponed fiscal reforms by previous administrations.

Within this context, the FIAL program was designed as the main vehicle to channel Bank support for
Colombia's fiscal and institutional agenda. The main elements of the program had its origins in "The 100
Points of Alvaro Uribe Vélez" document, in which the then-candidate set forth a set of priority actions
including tax and institutional reform measures designed to render the public sector more efficient and to
reduce inflexibilities in the budget process. The Bank's involvement began with the 2002 policy notes
exercise (these have been published as a book by the World Bank: "Colombia: The Economic Foundations
of Peace," 2003), which provided a stage for close and intensive interaction with the incoming
administration and helped establish the basic strategies for fiscal and institutional reform. Program design
also benefited from close coordination with the Colombia team of the IMF, which in turn guaranteed full
consistency between the FIAL program and the Fund's Stand-By Agreement that began in December 2002.


The program's development objectives were twofold: first, to promote reforms addressing fiscal rigidities
needed to attain the substantial fiscal adjustment required for sustainable macroeconomic stability; and
second, to improve the provision of public services and establish the institutional basis for greater
efficiency and accountability in public expenditures. The program had the following specific objectives:

        l Increase tax revenue and reduce distortions in the tax system
        l Modernize tax administration
        l Improve budget management with modern tools and legal reforms
        l Develop incentives for efficiency gains in sub-national entities
        l Prevent massive losses to the State from judicial claims
        l Strengthen the public sector procurement system
        l Reduce losses and generate revenues through improved asset management
        l Improve performance through management contracts for government agencies
        l Promote the development of a sound fiscal responsibility legal framework




                                                     - 2 -

        l Support a coherent and comprehensive reform implementation process


Project design was unquestionably ambitious. The government program brought in by the new
administration was quite broad and comprehensive, making it a challenge to fully implement even with the
abundant political capital of the Uribe administration. Substantial analytical work from within and outside
Colombia further enriched it, and the FIAL program's design was a conflux of both these elements. Most
key actors (including the Bank) felt that the Uribe government provided the opportunity to overcome the
frustration of years of unfinished fiscal reforms.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The FIAL's development objective did not change during the life of the program. The statement of specific
objectives, however, was made more detailed in the later stages of the program to add information on their
underlying strategies. The following table compares the original specific objectives with the revised
specific objectives:

                          Comparison between original specific objectives (FIAL I PD)
                                  With revised specific objectives (FIAL III PD)
                 Original                                           Revised or Added
 [none]                                   The macroeconomic framework of the Republic of Colombia is
                                          consistent with the objectives of the Reform Program.
 Increase tax revenue and reduce          Promote policy reforms to increase tax revenues and reduce distortions
 distortions in the tax system            in the tax system, including a broadening of the tax base, a reduction of
                                          exemptions, and simplification of the overall policy framework
 Modernize tax administration             Modernize tax administration through actions to improve information
                                          flows, auditing capacity, and overall institutional performance.
 Improve budget management with           Improve budget management with modern tools including, inter alia, a
 modern tools and legal reforms           new legal framework that promotes a unified vision of the budget,
                                          introduces medium-term budgeting tools, and reduces inflexibilities in
                                          expenditures
 Develop incentives for efficiency        Develop incentives for efficiency gains in sub-national entities,
 gains in sub-national entities           primarily through the implementation of a scheme for royalty transfers
                                          based on performance, as well as capitation transfers
 Prevent massive losses to the State      Prevent losses from judicial claims through improvement of the
 from judicial claims                     regulatory framework and institutional strengthening of the entities in
                                          charge of legal defenses
 Strengthen the public sector             Strengthen the public sector procurement system, including its legal
 procurement system                       framework and the establishment of a regulatory entity
 Reduce losses and generate revenues      Reduce losses and generate revenues through improved management
 through improved asset management        of public sector physical assets, primarily real estate
 Improve performance through              Introduce performance criteria in the public sector through the
 management contracts for government      implementation of management contracts with selected agencies
 agencies
 Promote the development of a sound       Promote the development of a sound legal framework, based upon a
 fiscal responsibility legal framework    new law which would govern fiscal aggregates and establish more
                                          modern instruments for fiscal management
 Support a coherent and comprehensive     Support a coherent, comprehensive reform implementation process
 reform implementation process




3.3 Original Components:
The components of the FIAL Program were aligned with critical areas of action of the Government's



                                                       - 3 -

Reform Program, and each responded to one of the specific objectives detailed above. Grouped into four
categories (Overall Fiscal Commitment, Revenue Rigidities and Tax Reform, Expenditure Rigidities and
Institutional Reform, and Fiscal Responsibility) the components' objectives and commitments are as
follow:

Overall Fiscal Commitment

The objective of this component was to establish a macroeconomic framework consistent with the
objectives of the Reform Program. The key expected result at the end of FIAL was a gradual reduction in
the overall non-financial public sector deficit in 2004 and 2005.

As with all Bank-supported SAL's or DPL's, the FIAL program had to be implemented within in a sound
macroeconomic environment. In December 2002, Colombia entered into a Stand-By Agreement with the
IMF which established the initial benchmarks for fiscal performance that were included in the FIAL policy
matrix under this component. The original FIAL matrix included a moving dollar and peso deficit target
consistent with the IMF agreement for the first loan, as well as budget execution levels consistent with the
approved budgets and tentative deficit targets for the following loans in the program. These deficit targets
were meant to be adjusted as the program progressed.

                                                Overall Fiscal Commitment
    Loan                                        Original Key Policy Actions
 First        The Government has attained, for the period covered by any three continuous months among
              the twelve months preceding withdrawals from the Loan Account, an overall deficit of the
              Combined Public Sector of no more than US$1,352,000,000 equivalent to
              P$3,874,000,000,000.
 Second       The execution of the 2003 Budget through the end of the most recent quarter will be in line
              with overall deficit limits in the approved budget.
 Third        The execution of the 2003 Budget through the end of the most recent quarter will be in line
              with overall deficit limits in the approved budget, and the overall deficit of the non-financial
              public sector in the approved budget for 2004 will not exceed [2.2] percent of GDP.
 Fourth       The execution of the 2004 Budget through the end of the most recent quarter will be in line
              with overall deficit limits in the approved budget, and the overall deficit of the non-financial
              public sector in the approved budget for 2005 will not exceed [1.1] percent of GDP.


Revenue rigidities and tax reform

Tax reform. The objective of this component was to increase tax revenues, improve tax neutrality and
equity, and reduce tax expenditure. The key expected results at the end of FIAL were: (i) VAT tax base
expanded to cover additional goods and services; (ii) phased elimination of income tax exemptions during
2003-2005 effectively applied according to schedule, i.e., reduced to 70% in 2003, 50% in 2004, 20% in
2005 and 0% in 2006.

The objectives of this component were centered on Tax Reform Law 788-2002, which was approved in
December 2002. This Law combined some of the key elements of tax policy modernization. Specifically
it: (i) eliminated exemptions and expanded the base of the Value Added Tax; (ii) established a new ceiling
on wage exemptions under the personal income tax, and reduced incentives for untaxed employee
compensation; and (iii) phased out corporate income tax exemptions for capital gains from sales of stock,
mutual funds and real estate, as well as from profits of previously privileged corporate firms.

The initial FIAL policy matrix was designed to support enactment of the Law through the first FIAL loan,



                                                        - 4 -

proceeding with the issuance of its regulations and by-laws for the second loan, and finally its phased
implementation in the final two loans.

                                                       Tax Reform
    Loan                                       Original Key Policy Actions
 First         Borrower has enacted tax reform law (Law 788 of 2002), including:
               ·   Reduction of exemptions and expansion of the tax base for the VAT
               ·   Reduction of the wage tax exemption from 30% to 25% with a ceiling in the amount of
               Col$ 16 million in monthly wages and reduction of tax exemptions, tax credit and non-taxed
               income for the personal income tax
               ·   The phasing out of the corporate income tax exemption for capital gains from sales of
               stock, mutual funds and real estate, and as well as for profits from corporations previously
               exempted.
 Second        Government has issued the necessary legislation to regulate the application of Tax reform
               Law.
 Third         The reforms to taxes specified for 2004 in Law 788-2002 are being implemented, including:
               ·   The VAT coverage has increased to 51% of GDP
               ·   Exemptions to income tax have been reduced according to the phasing out schedule
               defined in Articles 12 and 14 of Law 788 of 2002.
 Fourth        ·   Income tax surcharge has been reduced to 5%
               ·   The reforms to taxes specified for 2005 in Law 788-2002 are being implemented,
               including:
                   o    Goods and services that were taxed at 7% in the Law 788-2002 are being taxed at
                        10% starting in 2005
                   o    Goods and services newly included in the base of the VAT will be taxed at a rate of
                        at least 2%
                   o    Non-taxed and exempted goods and services specified in Law will also be taxed at a
                        rate of at least 2%
                   o    Exemptions to income tax reduced as scheduled in Law 788-2002.




Tax administration. The objective of this component was to increase tax revenues, strengthen tax equity,
and reduce tax expenditure and opportunities for corruption. This component's key expected results were:
(i) substantial increase in reporting of interest income; (ii) collections from firms previously exempted from
the corporate income tax increased to 75% of their potential revenue; (iii) administration cost per peso
collected reduced by at least 10%; (iv) administration efficiency improved according to standard indicators
like 1% annual decrease in the ratio of recurrent expenditures of DIAN to total revenue collected by it.

At the time FIAL was initially prepared, tax administration was an area of major weakness in Colombia.
Tax yields were substantially lower than their potential; e.g., VAT and income taxes were each only
collecting little over 5 percent of GDP. There were several important areas in which improvements were
needed, including: (i) the relationship with the banking system in order to standardize information flows and
reduce the period during which collections held; (ii) coverage of individuals' interest income withholdings;
(iii) tax auditing planning and coordination within DIAN; and (iv) collection of tax arrears. Furthermore,
information management at DIAN was inefficient and lacked integration, the administrative costs of tax
collection were too high, and the customs administration had excessive clearance times. Therefore, tax
administration reforms targeted by the FIAL loans included measures aimed to overcome these weaknesses.

The sequencing of actions contained in the original policy matrix responded primarily to DIAN's
modernization plan, which was supported through the Bank-funded Second Public Financial Management



                                                        - 5 -

Technical Assistance Loan (PFMP II, or MAFP II in Spanish).

                                                    Tax Administration
   Loan                                         Original Key Policy Actions
 First       The Ministry of Finance, through DIAN, has enacted new rules for tax administration
             including:
             ·    Daily interest payments higher than Col$900 are subject to withholding at the source
             ·    Obligation of financial institutions to report information on taxpayers' accounts that are
             credited with annual interest of at least Col$5 million, and/or have total annual deposits equal
             or higher than Col$50 million
             ·    Establish a list of collectable tax debts on December 31 of 2002
             ·    Elaborate a plan and set up a schedule to collect at least 20 percent of these collectable
             debts
             ·    Establish indicators of customs clearance time and procedures to select shipments for
             inspection based on a risk-management system for the customs offices of Bogotá and
             Medellín.
 Second      ·    The DIAN publishes regularly:
                  o    Semi-annual revenue indicators
                  o    Annual results of surveys of taxpayer's satisfaction
                  o    Indicators of collection costs disaggregated by type of tax and of taxpayer
             ·    The DIAN has:
                  o    Developed and implemented a cross reference system with financial institutions to
                       monitoring the interest reported by taxpayers
                  o    Audited at least 50% of large taxpayers affected by the new taxes
                  o    Established and published indicators of the cost and time required for compliance by
                       the taxpayer
                  o    Established unified accounts between customs and domestic taxes for large
                       taxpayers beginning in 2003.
 Third       ·    All taxpayers that receive VAT refunds have unified the taxpayer current account for
             VAT, income tax and customs in 2004
             ·    The Import & Export module for integrated domestic tax and customs systems is in
             operation
             ·    Collections from firms previously exempted from the corporate income tax have
             increased to at least 75 percent of their estimated corporate income tax potential revenue
             ·    100% of large contributors have unified accounts and are submitting electronic income
             tax returns by the end of 2003
             ·    The DIAN has renegotiated agreements with banks with regard to submission of
             information in standard form and incentives for prompt processing of data and turning over
             funds.
 Fourth      ·    Collections per customs inspection increased by at least 30 percent in real terms in 2004
             compared to 2002.
             ·    Administration cost reduced by at least 10% in real terms in 2004 compared to the
             collections of 2002.
             ·    At least 20 monthly tax audits have been performed jointly by the customs and the
             internal taxes units of DIAN




Expenditure rigidities and institutional reform

Budget management. The objective of this component was to transform the budget into a more effective
tool for sound fiscal policy and improved service delivery. The key expected result was a budget that
would include targets and performance indicators for at least six sector ministries in accordance with a



                                                         - 6 -

medium term budget plan like a medium term expenditure framework.

At the time of the program's preparation, the Colombian budget system had been abundantly studied. Most
studies coincided in that it had a number of important weaknesses that affected both control over the
aggregate levels of expenditure as well as their composition. In terms of aggregate expenditure controls,
budget allocations were actual authorizations to commit by spending agencies, which led to large
accumulations of arrears in years when revenues fell below expected levels (which occurred quite often).
In terms of the composition of expenditure, budget rigidity derived from high levels of both "structural"
expenditures (such as pensions, debt service, and transfers) and law-based permanent earmarks basically
left fiscal authorities with no room to maneuver.

The modernization of the budget system to correct these deficiencies and introduce a medium-term
expenditure horizon had to rely on a number of different instruments. Although diagnoses were abundant,
the Government lacked an official budget reform strategy, which needed be prepared and approved as a
CONPES document (CONPES documents are policy documents that are officially reviewed and approved
by the cabinet). Although some improvements could be achieved through a reform of the Organic Budget
Code, establishing the Ministry of Finance's firm control over budget aggregates required a Constitutional
amendment. While "forward budgeting," which also added to the inter-temporal budget rigidity, also
needed to be brought under control, and something had to be done regarding legally-mandated permanent
entitlements and earmarks, the highly sensitive and political nature of the issue called for a special
high-level commission to initially study them and present a recommendation.

Technical aspects of budgeting, such as revising budget classifications and the introduction of the
medium-term perspective, were also to be supported by the loan. Finally, an exercise in performance-based
budgeting was to be phased in during the last loan of the FIAL program.




                                                    - 7 -

                                                    Budget Management
    Loan                                        Original Key Policy Actions
 First         Congress has approved constitutional reform that gives power to the Executive Branch to
               control and manage the budget within fiscal targets.
 Second        ·   Government has issued a CONPES document approving the Budget reform strategy.
               ·   Government has developed and published a medium term fiscal framework (MTFF)
                   consistent with the Annual Financial Plan and the requirements of the Fiscal
                   Responsibility Law.
               ·   The Superior Council of Fiscal Policy (CONFIS) has issued a resolution regulating the
                   criteria for the approval of "vigencias futuras" according to the Annual Financial Plan.
               ·   Government has established a high level Special Commission to comprehensively review
                   expenditure entitlements and earmarked revenues, and to recommend changes when
                   needed.
               ·   Government has approved a Constitutional reform that restores budget powers to the
                   Executive Branch, or Government has submitted to Congress amendments to the Organic
                   Budget Law permitting greater flexibility in annual spending within present
                   constitutional framework.
 Third         ·   An information campaign on the budget has been launched to provide information for
                   different target audiences such as ministries, auditing agencies, and civil society.
               ·   Government has issued regulations that require:
                   o    a model of budget classification that meets international standards,
                   o    new budget reporting standards,
                   o    coordination to ensure consistency of current and capital expenditures.
               ·   Government has initiated performance management pilots in two ministries by clarifying
                   objectives, setting targets and devising simple performance indicators.
 Fourth        ·   The 2006 budget is prepared within a medium term perspective including the new
                   accounting and budget classification model and integration of current and capital
                   expenditures.
               ·   Government has extended performance management pilots to at least six ministries
                   clarifying objectives, setting targets and devising simple performance indicators.



Development of incentives for efficiency gains. The objective of this component was to help ensure that
spending for service delivery was realized with efficiency, effectiveness and within budget limits. This was
aimed at advancing the elimination of rigidities in the fiscal transfer system and at improving its
management. The key expected results were: (i) government was to have effectively transformed
supply-based transfer for education into a demand-based capitalization transfer; (ii) sub-national
governments were to have fully assumed responsibility for delivering education services as reflected in
indicators such as capacity to reallocate teachers, enforce teachers' attendance and other teacher
performance indicators, co-financing commitments, and publication of local or regional improvement goals
in standardized national tests.

The Colombian decentralization process initiated in the 1980's has had a limited impact on the quality of
public service delivery and local accountability in the use of resources. It also contributed to increased
public spending, along with the blurring of responsibilities between the central and local governments in
some sectors. The Uribe Government undertook to change this condition over the long-term through the
progressive implementation of results-based management in the public administration and improved
targeting, efficiency and effectiveness of the royalty transfer system (royalties are variable transfers to local
governments primarily based on their oil production). The Government sought to enhance the efficiency of
royalty transfers for education spending by setting capacity standards for sub-national governments thereby
helping to define requirements for additional resources, followed by an overhaul of the royalty transfer




                                                          - 8 -

system.

Since the royalty transfer system is established by the Constitution, a Constitutional amendment would be
required to overhaul it completely. Furthermore, Law 715 had been passed in 2001 to establish efficiency
criteria in the education sector. Therefore, this component of FIAL was structured around a Constitutional
amendment through Referendum and the application of Law 715. The Referendum was scheduled for late
2003 and would contain a specific question to reform the royalty system.

                                     Development of Incentives for Efficiency Gains
    Loan                                        Original Key Policy Actions
 First         The Government has enacted a law to enable constitutional referendum for transfer of
               royalties for educational services
 Second        ·   Borrower has submitted to popular vote the provision of the Referendum that reallocates
                   royalty transfers for educational services.
               ·   Government has established eligibility requirements for sub-national governments to
                   access additional resources for education at sub-national levels. Eligibility requirements
                   include, among others, restructuring of sub-national Secretary of Education, enhanced
                   capacity for human resources management, and co-financing of education expenditures
                   at competent sub-national level.

 Third         Government is fully applying Law 715-2002 on capitation transfer and is auditing and
               applying sanctions to sub national governments that commit fraud with respect to number of
               students enrolled
 Fourth        No action proposed on this phase


Legal defense of the State. The objective of this component was to improve the State's capacity to
respond to legal claims and to diminish their fiscal cost. The key expected result for this component was a
reduction in the present value of judicial contingency debt vis-à-vis 2003.

Litigation against the State has had a substantial fiscal impact in Colombia. It was estimated that by 2006,
the State's legal liabilities would amount to approximately 2 percent of GDP. This prospect was
aggravated by the fact that the State cannot meet all compensatory payments on time. Moreover, an
extremely high rate of penalty interest applies, "snowballing" the State's liabilities. Two of the important
factors involved were: (i) the weak capacity of the State to defend itself in court, and (ii) the existing legal
framework encouraged the State to take a back-seat to demands and claims from individuals, accompanied
by passivity in pursuing actions against public servants responsible for these claims and judgments.

Within this context, the Government tried to introduce enforceable legal provisions that would: (i) minimize
errors and weaknesses in the execution of the public sector's decisions and contracts; and (ii) require a
more proactive approach to strengthen the state's capacity to defend itself and protect its interests. The
FIAL loans supported this process by supporting the design and implementation of an official legal defense
policy paper, the strengthening (by Law) of the relevant areas of the Ministry of Interior and Justice, and
the development of an information system that would enable effective and efficient management of the
caseload.




                                                         - 9 -

                                                  Legal Defense of the State
    Loan                                         Original Key Policy Actions
 First        ·   Borrower has promulgated Law 790 of 2002 that grants authority to central government
                  for strengthening the "Dirección de Defensa Judicial del Ministerio del Interior y de
                  Justicia" with the purpose of:
                  o     limiting the state's civil liability through improved policy formulation and
                        coordination,
                  o     seeking indemnification from borrower's civil servants who act with gross
                        negligence and bad faith,
                  o     professionalizing judicial defense of the state.

 Second       Borrower has issued a CONPES document establishing the new policy for legal defense of
              the state, including legal reform if necessary.
 Third        Government has established a public monitoring, information and reporting system that
              includes performance and result indicators and expected fiscal impact for the legal defense of
              the state.
 Fourth       Government is implementing the new policy for legal defense of the state and is publishing
              semi-annual reports on performance and results indicators, including expected fiscal impact,
              of the legal protection policy.


Strengthening public sector procurement. The objective of this component was to ensure that
government purchases were transparent and efficient. The key expected results were: (i) the country's legal
framework for procurement reformed following guidelines agreed between the Government and the Bank,
including guidelines such as measures to enhance transparency and objectivity, assignment of monitoring
and evaluation responsibility in procurement policy to a competent agency; (ii) advances in coverage of
e-procurement.

Preparatory studies for this component, including the Bank's CPAR, indicated that public contracts in
Colombia were affected by an unclear division between the private and public sectors and by an inadequate
legal framework that had overlaps and omissions. These were exacerbated by the legacy of traditional State
patronage systems which protected both buyers and vendors from being held accountable and provided
opportunities for corruption. In addition, no central agency was in charge of promoting reforms or even of
introducing the use of modern information technology.

The Government's program, as supported by the FIAL, contained the following key elements: issuance of
Decree 2170, through which some measures to improve transparency and to implement some international
"best practices" in contracts were implemented; the establishment of a regulatory entity in charge of
monitoring public sector procurement and issuing regulations; and the reform of the procurement bill (Law
80) to simplify the legal framework, ensure accountability, and promote more value-for-money in
procurement processes.




                                                           - 10 -

                                         Strengthening Public Sector Procurement
    Loan                                   Original Key Policy Actions of FIAL
 First        ·    Government has issued Decree 2170 (September 30, 2002) that strengthens transparency
                   and objectivity in public sector procurement.
              ·    Bill of Law 018/2002 modifying current public sector procurement legal framework
                   being in consideration by the Congress.

 Second       ·    Government issued CONPES document that:
                   o    dictates the principles that apply to government procurement,
                   o    recommends the creation of a new agency or the assignment to an existing agency of
                        public sector procurement responsibilities,
                   o    defines a strategy for developing and implementing e-procurement.
              ·    Government has proposed to Congress modifications to the legal bill amending Law 80
                   that incorporate the CONPES recommendations, emphasizing:
                   o    common principles for public sector procurement;
                   o    introduction of economic considerations into the procurement process;
                   o    institutional framework for public sector procurement.

 Third        The Government Agency responsible for monitoring, evaluating, and establishing common
              guidelines in public sector procurement matters, started its operation.
 Fourth       Government has issued the regulatory decrees for the implementation of the new procurement
              legal framework.



Asset management. The objective of this component was to maximize the economic and social return of
the State's assets; generate revenues by liquidating those not directly linked to service delivery, reduce
replacement and restoration costs, and eliminate opportunities for corruption. The key expected results at
the end of the program were: (i) the State was to have institutionalized mechanisms to monitor, evaluate,
maintain and dispose of public assets; and (ii) the State was to have received accumulated revenues for
asset management equivalent to at least US$70 million.

Diagnostic work revealed the existence of a substantial body of idle public sector assets which contributed
to inefficiencies in resource use. Many were not properly titled or adequately registered in institutional
inventories; others were sub-utilized or misused, generating unnecessary costs. Numerous institutions
spent a substantial portion of their budgets on property maintenance and leasing. At the time of the FIAL's
preparation, the State's asset management suffered from: (i) unclear legal status and economic value,
incomplete registration, and irregular control over properties and other public assets; and (ii) the existing
legal framework's failure to recognize market principles and to provide a clear basis for managerial
discretion.

The Government adopted a strategy to improve asset management through: (i) short-term policy actions to
develop a framework for public asset management; and (ii) medium-term policy actions to develop a more
flexible approach, e.g., concessions, leasing, privatization, and outsourcing. Through these reforms it was
expected that assets worth approximately US$1 billion would be registered and prevented from further
deterioration, with a beneficial fiscal impact.

The FIAL program originally envisioned support to this area through a combination of efforts including the
creation of a regulatory body for asset management, the preparation and approval of a CONPES document,
the enactment of legislation to enable more modern asset management practices, an updated asset
inventory, and the generation of revenue through the short-term asset liquidation program.




                                                         - 11 -

    Loan                                            Asset Management
                                               Original Key Policy Actions
 First        Government has created a Commission for Asset Management charged with preparation of
              draft government policy, defined the scope of work and an operational plan to define
              accounting systems and inventories in public agencies.
 Second       ·    Government has issued CONPES document that defines basic principles and establishes
                   strategic plan for Asset Management.
              ·    Short term Asset Management program has produced revenues or savings equivalent to
                   at least 27,000 million Colombian pesos of 2002.

 Third        ·    Government has submitted to congress law reform proposal to authorize and facilitate
                   new asset management.
              ·    Titling has been regularized for at least 100 real estate assets
              ·    Short term Asset Management program has produced cumulative revenues or savings for
                   at least 51,000 million Colombian pesos of 2002.

 Fourth       ·    Asset registration, including updated valuation, has been completed for 100% of the
                   assets listed by the "Contaduría Nacional".
              ·    Asset management program has produced cumulative revenues for at least 175,000
                   million Colombian pesos of 2002.
              ·    Inventory of government assets is completed and published for all ministries




Management contracts for government agencies. The objective of this component was to enhance the
efficiency and financial self-sufficiency of government agencies. The key expected result at program-end
was that participating agencies would perform better and reach results according to indicators such as
reduced dependency on fiscal transfers, higher coverage, and increased customer satisfaction.

Through the decentralization process and the implementation of other actions over the past 50 years, over
one hundred independent agencies had been created, many with the expectation of becoming self-financing
entities. In fact, however, many of these agencies either created additional pressures for transfers from the
central government or had complex financial relationships with it. The new administration aimed to convert
many of these agencies into results-based, self-sustaining institutions. To this end, its first step was to
design and implement management contracts specifying performance, revenue and balance targets for some
pilot agencies, which were then to be replicated in other agencies.

The FIAL loans supported measures related to the identification of two government agencies for the pilot
exercise and signing management contracts, evaluating their outcomes, publishing the results, and
continuing with the expansion of the model to other agencies. The two agencies that were identified as
pilots were ICBF (the family welfare institute) and SENA (the technical training institute).

                                    Management Contracts for Government Agencies
    Loan                                       Original Key Policy Actions
 First        Government has selected two government agencies for pilot management contracts 2003-
              2006
 Second       Central government has signed management pilot contracts with two government agencies.
 Third        Government has published, monitored and adjusted performance and results indicators for
              two government agencies.
 Fourth       Government has adjusted and extended management contracts to at least 6 government
              agencies.




                                                        - 12 -

Management of the public sector reform process. The objective of this component was to promote
policy and technical coordination for the successful application of reforms within a framework of
strengthened governance, accountability and policy sustainability. The key expected result was a reform
process widely consulted within public and private sectors and implemented on schedule.

A complex, comprehensive reform program such as the one initiated by the Uribe Government requires
close and continuous supervision, coordination and evaluation to ensure continuity and high quality in its
implementation, as well as to be able to respond to changing circumstances. It was also understood from
the outset that recurrent evaluation of the program's progress and subsequent impact was crucial to provide
the feedback necessary to amend the strategies as needed.

To these ends, the Government established systematic management mechanisms of the reform process that
included: (i) coordination to gain the acceptance and support of political actors; (ii) technical coordination
for professional leadership and guidance of the processes; (iii) communication and outreach to obtain the
support of the population and the public servants; and (iv) monitoring and evaluation for informed
decision-making at political and technical levels.

The FIAL program initially structured its support to this component through the definition of the overall
public sector modernization strategy, the establishment of highly capable technical teams, and an ongoing
monitoring and evaluation process for FIAL-supported reforms.

                                  Management of the Public Sector Reform Process
    Loan                                       Original Key Policy Actions
 First        ·    Government has:
                   o   published its strategy of state reform,
                   o   established a high level commission for state reform and a task team for technical
                       coordination;
                   o   formed task teams in each participating agency with coordination mechanism with
                       DNP, and
                   o   developed a concept for public marketing of public sector reform.

 Second       ·    Government has issued CONPES documenting the policy on state reform
              ·    Government has developed a system for monitoring and evaluation of state reform and
                   has announced monitoring indicators for public sector reform progress in the web page of
                   the DNP and other means.

 Third        Base line and progress indicators for monitoring progress and final goals of the reform are
              applied to the reforms achieved during 2003 and are disseminated countrywide.
 Fourth       Base line and progress indicators for monitoring progress and final goals of the reform are
              applied to the reforms achieved during 2004 and are disseminated countrywide.


Fiscal Responsibility

The objective of this component was to help reduce fiscal imbalances. The key expected results were that:
(i) the Government was to have enacted measures for signaling and disclosing fiscal targets; and (ii) the
Central Government was collecting and publishing reliable fiscal sustainability data for the 50 largest
sub-national governments according to indicators defined in the proposed bill for a fiscal responsibility law
and Law 617 of 2000.




                                                         - 13 -

During the Pastrana administration, a draft bill for fiscal responsibility was prepared, and its discussion
continued into the Uribe administration which in turn submitted it to Congress. Among the key principles
of this new law were the establishment of a medium-term fiscal framework, guidelines for ensuring debt
sustainability, definition of macroeconomic targets and transparency measures such as the publication of
tax expenditures and improved fiscal reports to Congress. This effort was undertaken in tandem with other
initiatives carried out through the Ministry of Finance to collect and publish financial information from
sub-national governments.

    Loan                                    Original Key Policy Actions of FIAL
 First         The borrower has submitted to Congress the bill od the Law for Fiscal Responsibility.
 Second        ·   Government has approved the Fiscal Responsibility Law, that contains, at a minimum,
                   rules for:
                   o    setting fiscal targets linked to debt sustainability and primary balance for the NFPS;
                   o    annual reports of fiscal results to Congress, including floating debt;
                   o    publication of the financial plan that will include, among others, information on
                        floating and contingency debt;
                   o    the obligation to include the fiscal impact and source of financing within any law
                        that creates new tax expenditures.

 Third         ·   Government has:
                   o    disclosed fiscal targets for 2004 in accordance with the new law of fiscal
                        responsibility;
                   o    submitted reports to Congress of fiscal results of 2003.

 Fourth        ·   Government has:
                   o    disclosed fiscal targets for 2005 in accordance with the new law of fiscal
                        responsibility;
                   o    submitted reports to congress of fiscal results of 2004.



3.4 Revised Components:
The overall structure of components and their individual objectives were not changed during program
implementation. However, changing circumstances (particularly the defeat of the 2003 Referendum and
delays in the approval of key legislation) required adjustments to the specific policy actions within each
component. Some of these, such as budget reform or incentives for efficiency gains, were clearly weakened
by these circumstances and although a "Plan B" was in place, the desired structural effects were not
achieved. Others, such as tax reform, were actually strengthened during implementation as a new Law
(Law 863), which was not originally forecast, was approved and accelerated the tax exemption phase-out
process.

The changes in policy actions undergone in each component are as follow:

Overall fiscal commitment. As was expected at the outset, the actual deficit targets were adjusted as the
program progressed, keeping them either in line with or below the targets in the IMF SBA. Some
definitional changes were made, such as adopting the concept of combined public sector for deficit
measurement. In FIAL III, the measurement of the fiscal stance was further strengthened by requiring that
the overall public sector debt to GDP ratio be below 47%; the original matrix did not incorporate a
debt/GDP target.

Tax reform. The Government's tax reform strategy evolved over time, and was reflected in changes in the
policy content of this component. Law 788, which was the single tax policy reform initiative envisioned at



                                                          - 14 -

the outset, was later complemented by a second law (Law 863). The failure of the Referendum in late 2003
(which had expenditure-containment measures), the Constitutional restriction on reducing public sector
wages, and the rejection by the Constitutional Court of the 2% VAT on basic foodstuffs and services
(discussed later in this report), forced the Government to submit the bill to Congress that later became Law
863. While this law contained some highly desirable elements such as the acceleration of the tax exemption
phase-out schedule, it also introduced some undesirable quick-revenue items such as a 0.1% increase in the
financial transactions tax.

Tax administration. This component underwent a conceptual shift in the way progress was measured.
Originally, the FIAL program measured progress in terms such as the deployment of systems, unification
of taxpayer accounts, or a particular number of audits. For the third loan, the Bank and the Government
jointly decided that these elements, while important, did not provide an adequate picture of the actual
overall improvement in tax administration. These indicators were replaced by two internationally-accepted
measurements of tax administration capacity: (i) administrative cost per peso collected; and (ii) an estimate
of tax evasion as a percentage of GDP.

Budget management. The Government's budget reform agenda suffered two major setbacks early in the
program: (i) the rejection of a Constitutional amendment by the Senate that would have given the executive
branch greater control over public expenditure; and (ii) the rejection of the 2003 Referendum, which
contained expenditure-control measures. While the Government subsequently attempted to introduce
reforms within the Constitution through a new Organic Budget Code, this effort was also rejected by
Congress. The lack of structural progress in the budget system constituted one of the reasons why the
FIAL program did not progress into its fourth and final loan.

Development of incentives for efficiency gains. After the failed Referendum to authorize the permanent
reallocation of royalty transfers for educational services, the Government restructured the National Royalty
Commission, facilitating the allocation of some additional funds for educational purposes. The FIAL Policy
Matrix was amended to support this alternative solution.

Legal Defense of the State. Although there were no major adjustments to the policy actions of this
component, greater comprehension of the complexity of the issue as the program progressed required a
reassessment of what was achievable in the short term. For example, it became evident that a real
reduction in the value of liabilities during the life of the FIAL program could not be achieved; the effect of
strengthening legal defense on the actual balance sheet would only be evident in the longer term.

Strengthening public sector procurement. The policy content of this component was affected by delays
(and eventual non-consideration by Congress) of the reforms to the procurement law (Law 80). However,
some key elements such as the creation of a normative body and improvements in accountability and
transparency were achieved via presidential decree and reflected in the program matrix. The failure to pass
the reforms to Law 80 also constituted one of the reasons for discontinuing the FIAL program.

Asset management. As was decided during the Bank's internal review process of FIAL II, the focus of the
policy actions in asset management shifted from quantitative, revenue-generation targets to institutional
development targets. In addition, some new elements were introduced such as reforms to the procurement
bill related to asset management, which were presented to Congress but did not pass.

Management contracts for government agencies. There were no changes in this component.




                                                       - 15 -

Management of the public sector reform process. There were no changes in this component.

Fiscal Responsibility. As the program progressed, it was decided that given the successful implementation
of the Fiscal Responsibility Law supported by FIAL II, there was no need to continue introducing policy
actions in this regard throughout the rest of the FIAL program. The conditions originally stipulated for
FIAL III and IV, which related to the publication of information and compliance with the Medium Term
Fiscal Framework, were therefore dropped in an effort to simplify the program matrix.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated Satisfactory, given the statement of development objectives. The elements of the
program are critical inputs to achieve fiscal sustainability and institutional development, the reform agenda
- though admittedly ambitious - was developed in a highly collaborative manner between Bank and
Government, and capitalized successfully on a significant stock of analytical work. Each component had a
logical sequence and generally began with the formalization of the Government's strategy in a CONPES
document, followed by the necessary legal reforms, and finally their implementation.

However, questions have been raised during the internal Bank review process of the FIAL (in particular
during the preparation of FIAL III) regarding its comprehensiveness as a fiscal adjustment program, since
it is clear that FIAL does not cover all of the areas that have an effect on fiscal balances. As stated in the
FIAL I MOP, "The program to be supported by the (...) FIAL is, nevertheless, not intended to deal
exhaustively and conclusively with all areas where action could improve Colombia's fiscal outlook.
Rather, it is conceived as a first-step package that focuses on a core set of critical policies of fiscal reform
that can sufficiently strengthen and consolidate public finances." Furthermore, FIAL followed on the
Bank's Structural Fiscal Adjustment Loan (SFAL) of 2001-2002, which supported reforms in sub-national
transfers through the creation of the single Sistema General de Participaciones, helped regulate borrowing
in decentralized entities, and promoted a discussion around social security reform. This context suggests
that FIAL was appropriately designed, building upon the achievements of previous Bank-supported
programs while admittedly focusing on a core set of areas which were understood to be necessary, but not
sufficient, to achieve fiscal adjustment.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The FIAL program had a two-fold development objective: first, to promote reforms addressing fiscal
rigidities needed to attain the substantial fiscal adjustment required for sustainable macroeconomic
stability; and second, to improve the provision of public services and establish the institutional basis for
greater efficiency and accountability in public expenditures.

Regarding the first objective, the program achieved mixed results. On the revenue side, tax reform
measures proceeded largely as planned and produced good results, as is illustrated in the following sections.
Tax administration results are also good, and progress in reducing tax evasion and increasing
administrative efficiency of DIAN is moving along at a fast pace. On the expenditure side, however, much
less has been achieved. Any substantial modification to the way public expenditure is managed involves
Constitutional reform, and both attempts supported by the FIAL program failed. Some external factors
(such as the devaluation of the dollar, high oil prices and surpluses at the sub-national level) helped buoy
the overall fiscal stance in recent years and lifted some pressure from the need for structural expenditure
reform. Nonetheless, the Colombian budget remains very rigid and continued efforts will be required to
truly transform it into a flexible fiscal policy instrument.




                                                       - 16 -

As regards the second objective, the program has influenced quality in service delivery in at least three
areas: education, as it has promoted a more efficient use and allocation of royalty transfers to sub-national
entities for education; and family welfare and technical education, as it supported performance contracts
with the two corresponding entities, establishing service delivery and revenue generation benchmarks. In
terms of setting the institutional basis for efficiency and accountability in public expenditures, the overall
package of expenditure reforms except budget reform (asset management, procurement, incentives for
efficiency gains, and management contracts with government agencies) produced a significant impact on
efficiency and accountability, albeit from different angles and varying degrees of depth.

The discontinuation of the program after the third loan has clearly adversely influenced the achievement of
the objectives set out at the beginning of the reform process. Elements not yet achieved but that remain in
the government's agenda, such as the new procurement law and Organic Budget Code, would bring the
program much closer to full achievement of objectives. Furthermore, substantial results expected shortly in
areas such as asset management and tax administration are obviously not part of this assessment, and
would also bring the program closer to full success.

Given this assessment, the overall achievement of objectives is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.




                                                      - 17 -

                          Key Reform Measures Implemented under FIAL
     Policy Area                   FIAL 1                                 FIAL 2                                  FIAL 3
Overall fiscal      A fiscal adjustment program was        The execution of the National           The execution of the 2004 Budget
commitment          put in place and the overall deficit   Central Government Budget for the       of the National Central
                    of the Combined Public Sector did      year 2003, prior to disbursements       Government through the end of the
                    not exceed US$ 1,352,000,000 for       under the second loan, had not          third quarter was in line with the
                    any 3 continuous months among the      exceeded 75% of the overall deficit     overall deficit limits in the
                    12 months preceding withdrawals        limit in said budget                    approved budget.
                    from the Loan Account                                                          The overall deficit of the Combined
                                                                                                   Pubic Sector through the third
                                                                                                   quarter of 2004 was consistent with
                                                                                                   an annual deficit of 2.3% of the
                                                                                                   GDP for said year.
                                                                                                   The overall debt to GDP ratio was
                                                                                                   below 47% of GDP
Tax Reform          Government enacted the Tax              Government issued 18 Decrees to        The new Tax Reform Law 863,
                    Reform Law 788 of 2002                  regulate the application of the Law    which accelerates the phase-out of
                                                            788 / 2002.                            exemptions, was enacted on
                                                                                                   December 2003
Tax Administration  · DIAN renegotiated service rates     · DIAN developed and                     · The DIAN administrativedid not
                       with its providers reducing its        implemented software to cross          exceed 0.96% of DIAN tax
                       operational cost.                      reference information with             collections
                    · 15Decrees wereissued to                 financial institutions to ensure     · Improvements in tax
                       regulate fiscal evasion, fraud, and    proper monitoring of taxpayer          administration produced al least
                       to clarify and facilitate the          statements                             0.3% of GDP from 2003-2004
                       application of the Tax Code        · DIAN increased its audit capacity
                                                              to the taxpayers and audited 50%
                                                              of large taxpayers
                                                          · DIAN established and published
                                                              indicators of the cost and time
                                                              required for filing complianceby
                                                              taxpayers
                                                          · DIAN established procedures to
                                                              carry integrated tax and custom
                                                              audits (over 80 integrated audits
                                                              were carried out)
Budget Management   A constitutional reform giving the    · CONPES approved the terms of           The Bill of Law with the new
                    Executive Branch the authority to         the budgetary reform                 Organic Budget Code was
                    control and manage the budget was                                              submitted to Congress
                    presented to and approved by          · The Government submitted the
                    Congress in first round                   Bill of Law for the 2004 Budget
                                                              Law to Congress incorporating a
                                                              medium-term fiscal outlook; the
                                                              calculation of tax expenditures
                                                              and contingent liabilities, and a
                                                              presentation by functions that
                                                              integrates current and capital
                                                              expenditures
Development of      The Government enacted a law to        · The Government submitted to           The Government restructured the
incentives for      enable Constitutional Referendum          Referendum a constitutional          National Royalty Fund and
efficiency gains    for transfer royalties to educational     amendment to transfer royalties      allocated funds to sustain places
                    services                                  to educational services              created for new students
                                                           · TheMinistry of Education issued
                                                              Decree 277 2003establishing
                                                              priority and eligibility criteria to
                                                              use funds originating from Law
                                                              21/1982 for investments in
                                                              educational services




                                                              - 18 -

                    Key Reform Measures Implemented under FIAL ­ Continuation
      Policy Area                     FIAL 1                               FIAL 2                               FIAL 3
 Defending the State   · Law 790-2002 was enacted           · ACONPES document                    An inventory of the legal was
 against the              granting the Central Government      establishing the basic policies    prepared and some policies geared
 extraordinary growth     authority to strengthen the          underlying the defense of the      to resolving claims via mediation
 of legal claims          Dirección de Defensa Judicial        State, was approved                procedures wereissued
                          del Ministerio del Interior y     · An Action Plan based on the
                          Justicia.                            CONPES document was put in
                       · A CONPES policy documentwas           place
                          prepared on based on an initial
                          diagnosis of the prevailing
                          situation.
 Strengthening public  · Decree 2170/2002 which             · The CONPES document was             The Government created the Inter-
 sector procurement       regulates the application of the     approved                           sector Commission for Public
                          Law 80 (Procurement Law) was      · Bill of Law (18/2002) was           Contracting that will act as the
                          issued                                                                  agency responsible for: establishing
                                                               modified to incorporate the
                       · A CONPES document defining                                               common guidelines and for
                                                               CONPES document's                  monitoring and evaluating public
                          the legal and institutional          recommendations was submitted      sector procurement
                          requirements to strengthen the       to Congress
                          public procurement system was
                          prepared
                       · A Bill of Law (18/2002) to
                          amend the Law 80 has been
                          submitted t o the Congress
 Asset management      · Government created the Inter-      · The CONPES documentwas              · The Inter-sector Commission for
                          sector Commission for Asset          approved.                            Asset Management and its
                          Management.                       · An inventory of the State             Technical Secretariat are in
                       · A CONPES documentwhich                infrastructure asset was initiated   operation
                          defines the basic sector policies                                       · A public assets information
                          was prepared                                                              system is being implemented
 Management contracts   A management model has been          The MHCP and DNP signed the          In 2004,SENA and ICBF were in
 for government         designed and two public              pilot Management Agreements          full compliance with their
 agencies               institutions wereselected to sign    with SENA and ICBF                   Management Agreements
                        contracts for a 2003-2006 pilot
                        program
 Management of public  · The State Reform strategy was      · A CONPES document                   · Baseline and a subset of progress
 sector reform process    published                            establishing the overall reform      indicators are being applied
                       · A High-level Commission for           strategy and recommending the      · A systematic monitoring and
                          State Reform was created             design of productivity and           reporting of the reform progress
                       · DNP created a Coordination and        effectiveness indicators for the     is in place
                          Monitoring Unit for the reform       public sector was approved

                          process                           · Systematic monitoring and
                       · Each participating agency formed      reporting of the reform progress
                                                               was put in place
                          a reform task team coordinated
                          with DNP
                       · Aconcept for public marketing
                          of the public sector reform was
                          developed
 Fiscal responsibility  A draft Fiscal Responsibility Law    The Fiscal Responsibility Law        A Medium-Term Fiscal Framework
                        was submitted to the Congress        (Law 819) was enacted.               (MTFF) is in place



4.2 Outputs by components:
In the following section, a review of the outputs of each component and the degree to which the specific
objectives were achieved will be presented. However, it must be noted that the FIAL, as many
programmatic DPL's, moved ahead with Board presentation of each loan only when the policy actions
specified in the matrix were achieved. Therefore, by definition, all components managed to achieve their
stated policy actions, so the degree of success needs to be gauged more subjectively in relation to the
program's overall objectives.




                                                               - 19 -

Fiscal Commitment.
Overall fiscal commitment. The achievement of the objective of this component was Satisfactory.

Colombia's fiscal performance throughout the duration of the FIAL program was satisfactory. All agreed
targets were met; with the exception of 2003 when the deficit target of the consolidated public sector was
raised mid-year by 0.3% of GDP to 2.8%. In contrast, 2004 closed with a substantially lower deficit than
was originally forecast; the year closed with a consolidated public sector deficit of 1.3% of GDP, well
below the target of 2.5%. This was due primarily to the large surpluses run by the sub-national
governments in response to regulations restricting public expenditure, since the deficit of the central
national government actually increased in respect to 2003 (although it was still below the 2002 level). The
following table shows the fiscal balances as calculated for the first three years of the present Government.

                                  Fiscal Balance as a GDP %
                                                      Year 2002       Year 2003      Year 2004
 Non-Financial Public Sector                            -3.8%           -2.5%          -1.4%
  * Central National Government                         -6.1%           -5.0%          -5.5%
  * Decentralized Sector                                 2.3%           2.5%           4.1%
    ØSocial Security System                              1.2%           0.7%           1.6%
    ØPublicEnterprisesatnationallevel                    0.4%           1.2%           0.9%
    ØPublicEnterprisesatlocallevel                       0.3%           0.2%           0.5%
    ØRegion and local governments                        0.4%           0.3%           1.1%
 BANREP Quasi-fiscal balance                             0.8%           0.6%           0.5%
 FOGAFIN Balance                                         0.3%           0.3%           0.3%
 Financial restructuring cost                           -0.6%           -0.5%          -0.4%
 Statistic discrepancies                                -0.3%           -0.6%          -0.3%
 Consolidated Public Sector Totals                      -3.6%           -2.7%          -1.3%
 Source: CONFIS



A reduction in the debt of the non-financial public sector as a percentage of GDP to below 47% was
included as part of the benchmarks of this component in FIAL III. The debt overhang had more than
doubled between 1997 and 2002 to over 54% of GDP, one of the highest in the region. A level below 47%
was achieved in 2004, although the reduction was at least partly due to the appreciation of the Peso (the
Government estimates that 50% of the reduction in the debt/GDP ratio was due to the exchange rate effect).




                                                    - 20 -

                               Evolution of Colombian Public Debt


                    60%                                                            300%


                    50%                                                            250%

     GDP            40%                                                            200%
        of                                                                              Exports
                                                                                               of
                    30%                                                            150%


                    20%                                                            100%

          Percentage
                    10%                                                            50%           Percentage

                     0%                                                            0%
                        1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004

                                               Year


                          NFPS Debt as % of GDP        External Debt as % of exports



Source: "Colombia´s economic and fiscal sustainability report"


Revenue rigidities and tax reform.
Tax Reform. The achievement of the objective of this component is rated Satisfactory.

The package of reforms supported by this component of FIAL were both effective in increasing revenue as
well as aligned with good international practices of tax policy, which call for things such as broad tax bases
with few exemptions and simple rate structures. However, some distortionary revenue-generating measures
(such as an increase of the financial transactions tax) were also carried out during this period, but these are
meant to be temporary. It also should be noted that the Constitutional Court reversed one of the important
elements of the first tax reform of FIAL (Law 788) which called for a reduced-rate VAT to be applied to
basic foodstuffs and services.

The tax policy reforms that were supported by FIAL were contained in Laws 788 and 863 and include the
following:

l The VAT was expanded and its application simplified, covering some goods previously exempted.
    This provided a uniform tax rate on certain goods previously affected by a range of rates. It improved
    some procedures for tax collection and retention in the source, and adjusted the simplified regime to
    avert some abuses and misuses.
l The yield of the personal income tax was increased by reductions in wage tax exemptions and
    thresholds on monthly wages, as well as in exemptions for personal credits. Exemptions to personal
    capital gains on stock sales were also eliminated.
l The yield of the corporate income tax was increased by the progressive elimination of exemptions for
    capital gains from sales of assets, as well as the privileges of some corporations that were exempted
    from profit taxes. In addition, rules of access to the "simplified" lower-rate regime for small
    businesses were better enforced.
l The financial transactions tax was programmed to be phased out by 2008.




                                                           - 21 -

l Sub-national tax revenue was enhanced through an adjustment of the alcohol tax in departments and
    districts, as well as to the tax surcharge rate for transfer to sub-national governments.

In 2004, the combined effect on revenue of these two laws was close to 1.6% of GDP. The following table
summarizes the effects of the most important tax reform efforts since 2000:

                       Effect of the tax reform on collections (in million of Col$)
                                      Year 2000    Year 2001     Year 2002     Year 2003   Year 2004
 Estimated total gross collections    19,295,107   21,211,718    22,842,674    25,904,617  29,453,036
 without reforms
 Law 633/2000 effect                  0            3,658,040     3,460,000     3,535,884   4,300,537
 Democratic Security Tax effect       0            0             1,250,721     1,228,795   31,101
 Law 788/2002 effect                  0            0             0             1,633,233   2,120,949
 Law 863/2003 effect                  0            0             0             0           1,958,815
 Reforms' cumulative effect           0            3,658,040     4,710,721     6,397,912   8,411,403
 Total gross collections              19,295,107   24,869,759    27,553,395    32,302,529  37,864,439
                                      Values as a GDP percentage
 Estimated total gross collections    11.0%        11.2%         11.2%         11.2%       11.4%
 without reforms
 Law 633/2000 effect                               1.94%         1.7%          1.5%        1.67%
 Democratic Security Tax effect                                  0.6%          0.5%        0.01%
 Law 788/2002 effect                                                           0.7%        0.8%
 Law 863/2003 effect                                                                       0.8%
 Reforms' cumulative effect                        1.9%          2.3%          2.8%        3.3%
 Total gross collections              11.0%        13.2%         13.5%         14.0%       14.7%
 Source: Economic Research Office, DIAN


Tax administration. The achievement of the objective of this component is considered Highly
Satisfactory since the outcomes surpassed the original expectations.

The FIAL program capitalized on an ongoing and successful process of institutional modernization at
DIAN, financed by the Bank's MAFP II loan, for achieving the tax administration policy objectives. The
FIAL initially focused on specific measures such as the reduction in thresholds for reporting interest
income, integrated taxpayer current accounts, better information flows with banks, and joint tax/customs
audits. However, these were only some elements of a large and comprehensive modernization effort
centered on the implementation of an integrated information, service, and management system called
MUISCA. The FIAL properly shifted its focus away from individual elements (each of which does not
account for any substantial impact on tax collections) to target values for institutional efficiency and
effectiveness.

The evolution of the indicators for institutional efficiency (cost of collection) and effectiveness (tax
evasion) during the FIAL program are shown in the following tables. In terms of cost of collections, two
scenarios are analyzed: with and without the effect of the tax reforms enacted during the period. Since the
tax reforms raised revenue to a large extent without any additional effort from the tax administration, it is
more accurate to assess efficiency gains by netting out the effect of the reforms. In both scenarios, the cost
per 1,000 pesos collected drops significantly, and in the net-of-reforms scenario, the reduction is from 10.3
pesos in 2003 to 9.9 pesos in 2004 and to an estimated 9.3 pesos in 2005.




                                                       - 22 -

                         Performance indicators ­ Cost of collections
                                                    Year 2003     Year 2004   Year 2005
 DIAN budget (thousand of millions of Col$)         330           360         363
 Estimated values including tax reform effect
 Estimated total gross collection (thousand of      32,303        37,864      40,392
 millions of Col$)
 Cost to collect Col$ 1000                          10.2          9.5         9.0
 Estimated values without tax reform effect
 Estimated total gross collection (thousand of      32,200        36,215      39,086
 millions of Col$)
 Cost to collect Col$ 1000                          10.3          9.9         9.3
 Source: Economic Research Office, DIAN


In terms of measuring tax evasion, the absence of an updated and operational input-output matrix and
general equilibrium model made it necessary to resort to other (admittedly less precise) techniques. Taking
the VAT as the subject, a simple calculation based on potential and net revenue gave indicators of evasion
as percentage of GDP, nominal peso value, and evasion rate. According to these figures prepared by
DIAN's Economic Research Department, the evasion rate dropped by 1.1% between 2002 and 2003, by
1.2% between 2003 and 2004, and by an estimated 1.8% between 2004 to 2005.

                               Performance indicators ­ VAT evasion
                 Potential          Net
                  Revenue        Revenue           Evasion          Evasion   Col$ million per
    Year
                    Col$            Col$        Col$        %        rate       evasion point
                   million        million      million     GDP
    2000         11,363,787      8,346,741    3,017,046    1.7%      29.5%         113,638
    2001         13,629,453     10,058,035    3,571,418    1.9%      27.6%         136,295
    2002         14,885,630     10,968,760    3,916,870    1.9%      26.4%         148,856
    2003         17,109,885     13,127,530    3,982,355    1.7%      25.3%         171,099
    2004         19,566,063     15,144,629    4,421,433    1.7%      24.1%         195,661
  2005 (est)     22,168,969     17,491,826    4,677,142    1.7%      22.3%         221,690
 Source: Economic Research Office, DIAN



Other outputs delivered with the support of this component include the following:

l Continued deployment of the MUISCA system, an integrated platform covering tax and customs
    audits, collections and control.
l Improvements to the audit and control systems which reduced customs clearance times, allowed for
    cross-referencing taxpayers' data with financial institutions' information, integrated tax/custom audits,
    and reduced firms' data reporting thresholds.
l Several on-line procedures simplified voluntary taxpayer compliance and increased the efficiency of
    administrative processes.
l A new mechanism to identify, locate and classify taxpayers, which improved the quality and coverage
    of taxpayer information.

Expenditure rigidities and institutional reform
Budget management. The achievement of the objectives of this component is rated Unsatisfactory.

The starting point of the underlying reform strategy of this component was a Constitutional reform to




                                                     - 23 -

restore the authority of the executive branch (or more specifically, to the MHCP) to regulate expenditure
aggregates. The Acuerdo Legislativo to carry this out was thrown out by the Senate in July 2003, a few
months after the approval of FIAL I. A second attempt at Constitutional reform was made via the October
2003 Referendum, this time to reduce expenditure rigidities through major reforms in the pensions system,
implementing a freeze on recurrent expenditures, especially wages, and shutting down certain public sector
entities. This attempt failed as well.

As agreed with both the Bank and the IMF, the Government proceeded to submit to Congress a new version
of the public sector's budget code (Estatuto Orgánico de Presupuesto, or EOP) in December 2003. The
bill contained important measures such as the redefinition of social expenditure, a revised budgetary
classification, improved monitoring and evaluation, control of forward budgets, and a medium-term
expenditure framework, among others. The EOP lingered in Congress for over a year, and was eventually
"archived" (or dismissed without being approved) in early 2005.

Even without the above-mentioned structural reforms, the Ministry of Finance did manage to make some
improvements to the quality of the budget. Furthermore, it is now working closely with the IMF on an
executive decree that will make up at least some of the ground lost with the dismissal of the EOP bill.
Among the improvements that have been observed so far are:

l Improved transparency through a budget information portal in the MHCP's website
l The budget submitted to Congress now includes a comprehensive explanation of many of its functional,
     financial and economic elements, as well as a debt sustainability analysis and an analysis of budgetary
     rigidities
l Budget preparation is now done on-line, reducing transaction costs for spending agencies
l The budget itself is of higher quality, as was shown by the fact that there were no budget amendments
     in 2005

Development of incentives for efficiency gains. The achievement of the objective of this component is
considered Moderately Satisfactory.

The central element for achieving a structural reform to the way royalty funds are managed was the 2003
Referendum, which contained a question proposing their explicit distribution for education (56%),
sanitation (36%), a sub-national pension fund (7%), and the conservation of the Cauca river (1%). This
measure was meant to counteract what was widely perceived as corrupt and inefficient use of these funds,
often in poorly planned or otherwise inappropriate investment projects. Existing laws (especially Law 715)
established efficiency and accountability standards for decentralized services, so by earmarking funds for
these services, there was the expectation of improved value-for-money.

The failure of the Referendum prevented this rule to be hard-wired into the Constitution. Nevertheless, as
an alternative measure, the Government decided to have DNP "absorb" the management of the National
Royalties Fund, fostering a better planning environment and responsiveness to local priorities. This enabled
the Government to reallocate funds to enroll approximately 30,000 new students in 2003 and some 12,000
more in 2004.

In 2005, the National Royalties Fund's Advisory Council confirmed the continuation of the education
coverage-expansion program for vulnerable populations using the Fund's resources, which should help
sustain the program. In addition, Law 715 establishes that the distribution of funds to schools has to
respond to demand, so enrollment is being closely monitored and audited. This new process for funding
education constitutes a real incentive to improve and expand the coverage of educational services.


                                                    - 24 -

Legal Defense of the State. The achievement of the objective of this component is rated Satisfactory.

The initial absence of an adequate diagnosis of the issue was compensated by an improved understanding
gained during implementation, which actually helped redirect the efforts of the reform program towards
more comprehensive, longer term solutions. As it became evident that the effect of the reform program on
contingent liabilities would not be seen in the short term, the focus was shifted towards strengthening the
development of a judicial management system involving areas such as legal defense, legal counsel, reform
of the legal framework and public procurement. Jointly with the deployment of an information system that
for the first time captured the true magnitude of ongoing litigation against the State, these measures have
made the public sector considerably better equipped to prevent, plan, and assign resources to litigation. The
progress of the activities under a clearer strategy and the firm commitment shown by the Government to
continue developing this area are justification for the component's rating. Improved fiscal results in terms
of reduced liabilities are expected in the medium term.

Specifically, the component has supported the delivery of the following products:

l A database of judicial processes against and in favor of the public entities (JURISGOV information
    system) which classifies different types of cases and provides a preliminary quantification of the
    associated contingent liabilities. The inventory now covers 183 of the 220 public entities and includes
    data on 9,745 cases involving COP 10,800,000 million where the State is the plaintiff, and 48,477
    cases involving COP 57,100,000 million where the State is the defendant. Although the inventory is not
    complete and some aspects are not yet fully accurate, it provides very valuable information for policy
    and strategy design.
l Diagnostic reports have been prepared for contingent liabilities arising from contractual,
    extra-contractual, and labor issues.
l Special directives have been issued governing the coordination of judicial defense of "high amount"
    processes (over 2,000 minimum wages) against the State. In 2003, seven cases were carried out
    through this process, increasing to 1,587 in 2004. Mediation processes helped resolve 23% of the
    cases between public entities in 2003, and 43% in 2004.
l The improved understanding of the risks involving procurement processes led to the introduction of
    some proposed amendments to Law 80, which governs public procurement processes.

Strengthening public sector procurement. The achievement of the objective of this component is
considered Unsatisfactory.

The central pillar of the procurement reform program was the passage of amendments to the procurement
law (Law 80) which would include the substantive adjustment to procurement processes (such as
elimination of so-called "special regimes," simplification of procedures, introduction of economy
considerations in procurement, etc.), as well as the creation of a normative body that would be in charge of
issuing regulations and monitoring the application of the law. These amendments, as well as other
improvements to the procurement process, were recommended by the Bank's Country Procurement
Assessment Report (CPAR) of 2000 and its update of 2005. The bill submitted in October 2003 was not
voted on by Congress, and although it has been re-submitted by the Government, prospects for its approval
are uncertain.

Despite the problems with the approval of the bill, the Government created the "Inter-sector Commission
for Public Contracting" by executive decree, which serves as the regulatory body for public procurement,
albeit without the full scope of functions proposed in the law and without the institutional structure and


                                                      - 25 -

sustainability that would be granted by it. Its functions are the coordination and oversight of the
application of public procurement policies. The Commission began operations in February 2005 and has
so far issued a "Good Practice Manual for Public Procurement" and provided advice to managers on
avoiding contractual problems. It is also preparing standard bidding documents that incorporate many
international good practices.

Asset management. The achievement of the objective of this component is rated Satisfactory.

This component, which benefits from technical assistance of an ongoing IDF grant, successfully
accomplished the objectives of the three FIAL loans. The reform process is still ongoing and additional
results are expected in the future, as the initial measures taken to improve the management of the basic
infrastructure of public sector institutions have produced some promising results. A comprehensive asset
database has been constructed as a first step of a long-term, comprehensive managerial strategy. The most
relevant outputs so far are:

l Creation of the "Inter-sector Commission for Assets Management" as regulatory body, with the
     responsibility of setting public asset management policy, designing and implementing the public asset
     registry, defining the criteria for uses and transfers of these assets, and establishing commercial
     practices to facilitate such transfers.
l Laws and regulations regarding asset management are very disperse; the complete legal framework for
     asset management has been identified and its assessment and proposals for improvement are in process.
l A public asset information system is being developed. The current version of the database has
     information on 9,333 buildings, 2,271 of which have been inspected and its use and legal status
     verified. This covers about 40% of all the entities' assets. Through December 2004, 770 properties
     were offered for sale in public auctions and 99 sold.
l As of December 2004, this component produced accumulative savings and incomes from transfers to
     sub-national entities of COP 1,611 million, contributions to the National Development Plan of COP
     5,369 million, transfers to the Central Government of COP 5,772 millions, concessions for COP
     23,329 million, and sales for COP 40,900 million, totaling COP 76,900 million

Despite these promising results, there remain requirements for increasing transparency and accountability
through the development of operations manuals, technical support to the participating agencies, further
implementation of the assets information system, and completing and publishing inventories.

Management contracts for government agencies. The achievement of the objectives of this component
was Moderately Satisfactory.

The outputs of this component were two performance contracts signed with two social-sector institutions:
(i) the family welfare institute (ICBF); and (ii) the technical training institute (SENA). Signed on October
2003, both of these contracts were intended to provide the incentive of additional "fiscal space" in exchange
for achieving targets in performance and revenue, as these entities generate their own. "Fiscal space", in
this case, meant granting them a higher level of expenditure authority over their own revenues.

The contracts were implemented, closed, and evaluated by both DNP and the entities themselves. Although
neither of the two entities fully complied with their commitments and the incentive never materialized,
representatives from ICBF and SENA have claimed that the contracts have helped the entities to better
organize their planning processes and improve their internal monitoring and evaluation. While efficiency
gains are claimed to have existed, they remain anecdotal. However, this mode of seeking improved
performance in public sector entities has not been officially adopted as part of the Government's strategy,


                                                       - 26 -

and it is unclear at this stage if there will be an expansion of this pilot exercise sometime in the future.

Management of the public sector reform process. The achievement of the objective of this component
was Satisfactory.

The component delivered its stated outputs, including the publication of baseline and progress indicators of
the reform process in DNP's website (Note 1.) Furthermore, there is evidence of good quality and
comprehensiveness in the management of the reforms, positive Government commitment to ensure
professional management of the process, good efforts of the DNP to monitor end evaluate the reform
program, and positive contributions from the a multi-disciplinary team assembled to guide the effort.
Among other specific results are the in-depth evaluations of individual reform efforts, such as legal defense
of the state and public sector procurement.

Fiscal Responsibility. The achievement of the objective of this component is considered Satisfactory.

This component supported the delivery of the key element of the fiscal responsibility framework: a new
Fiscal Responsibility Law (Law 819) was enacted on July 9, 2003. This law incorporated the
good-practice elements that were discussed and agreed with the Bank's technical team and which are
described in the policy matrix. Among the specific outputs that have been observed through the
implementation of this law since its enactment are the preparation, approval, and publication of the 2004
and 2005 versions of the Medium-Term Fiscal Framework (MTFF), establishing a basis for more
coordinated, efficient, transparent and responsible fiscal performance by the national and sub-national
governments. The MTFF has been widely disseminated and has been used by civil society and
international organizations in their fiscal and macroeconomic assessments. The 2005 version incorporated
a more comprehensive debt sustainability analysis.

_________________________________

(Note 1) These can be found at:
http://www.dnp.gov.co/archivos/documentos/DEPP_Evaluacion_PRAP/Key_Expected_Result.PDF
http://www.dnp.gov.co/archivos/documentos/DEPP_Evaluacion_PRAP/Key%20Expected%20Results.zip
http://www.dnp.gov.co/archivos/documentos/DEPP_Reportes_Evaluacion/Reportes_de_evaluacion_N23.pdf

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable for this loan

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable for this loan

4.5 Institutional development impact:
FIAL's overall institutional development impact has been mixed across components, but can be considered
substantial overall.

At the macro-fiscal and revenue-generation levels, the project has had a high institutional impact. The
Fiscal Responsibility Law was successfully implemented and the Ministry of Finance has developed an
adequate and sustainable capacity to ensure its compliance in areas such as the preparation of the MTFF,
improved debt sustainability analyses, and quantification of tax expenditures. Tax administration has
undergone a major transformation with the support of FIAL and the Bank-financed MAFP II project,
becoming a modern entity with state-of-the-art management systems, consistently showing good results in
terms of efficiency and effectiveness indicators.



                                                       - 27 -

In terms of expenditure and institutional reforms, the institutional development impact has been mixed, and
it is this area where the suspension of the FIAL program has shown the greatest effect. Impact on the
budgeting system has been negligible, given the failure of the constitutional and legal reforms that were to
sustain its modernization. The procurement modernization component had more impact given the creation
of the Inter-Sector Commission for Procurement, although the failure of the reforms to the procurement law
has limited the substantive effect on procurement practices. Likewise, the management contracts for
independent agencies have had some impact on the management practices at ICBF and SENA, but have
failed to reach a level of institutionalization that could be considered permanent and substantial.

The components of legal defense of the State and asset management have produced a significant
institutional impact. These areas have undergone massive process reengineering and the implementation of
modern information systems which, coupled with the establishment of the adequate institutional framework,
have enabled DNP and the Ministry of Interior and Justice to operate at a higher level.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Defining "government" as the executive branch, there have been several external actors who have
influenced the outcome of this program.

The implementation of the FIAL program involved congressional approval of a number of laws, some of
which were passed while others were not. Congress passed three of the most important laws supported by
FIAL: two tax reform laws (Laws 788 and 863) and the Fiscal Responsibility Law (Law 617), all of
which retained the substance with which the bills were submitted to Congress. On the other hand, the
Organic Budget Code and the new procurement law were not passed, so the scope of reforms in these two
critical areas of FIAL has been narrowed down to those achievable through executive decree. The failure
of these bills was one of the main reasons for ending the FIAL program after the third loan.

Another external actor that influenced program outcome was the Constitutional Court, which is responsible
for carrying out the constitutional review of laws, decrees, and other regulations. In 2003, the Court struck
down a key element of the first tax reform bill (Law 788), related to the expansion of the VAT base. The
tax reform component of FIAL had as one of its objectives broadening the VAT base to include foodstuffs
and some basic services at a lowered 2% rate; however, the Court considered that this violated the
principles of progressive taxation enshrined in the Constitution and struck this measure down.

In October 2003, President Uribe carried out a referendum to amend the Constitution to introduce a number
of fiscal and political reforms, which did not pass. Although the percentage of votes in support of it was
between 85-93% for all questions, the overall number of votes was just short of the threshold to render the
results valid. This affected FIAL in two different ways: directly, because the component of incentives for
efficiency gains counted on the approval of a referendum measure to redirect the use of royalty funds; and
indirectly, because the government lost some momentum in its reform agenda and also had to implement
"Plan B" measures that crowded out others that were the logical continuation of the reform process.

The Bank, as an external actor, generally exerted a positive influence by both keeping important issues on
the table as well as providing technical value-added during the review of proposed new legislation. This
was done through the participation of its regular staff as well as through a PHRD grant approved to
support the preparation of FIAL III and FIAL IV.




                                                       - 28 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government was fully committed to the FIAL reform agenda and attempted to do all within its grasp to
push the reforms forward, often coming up with a "Plan B" when a particular process would stall due to an
external actor. The Government also assigned a highly qualified technical team to monitor the reform
process and carry out frequent interactions with the Bank to resolve technical issues. From this point of
view, the government generally ensured that the factors under its control were positive influences on the
momentum of the FIAL program.

However, there was a change in the relative weight of fiscal and institutional reforms as part of the
government's overall agenda towards the middle of the Uribe administration. Initiatives such as the
amendment to allow presidential reelection and the bill dealing with the demobilization of illegal armed
groups took up much of the political space. It must be noted, however, that a constitutional amendment to
reform the pensions system, which was not part of the FIAL program, was passed in 2005.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
As a DPL, FIAL did not have an implementing agency per-se. The reforms dealing with tax reform and
administration were led by the Directorate of Taxes and Customs (DIAN), those with macro-fiscal and
budgetary issues by the Ministry of Finance, and those related to institutional reforms by the National
Planning Department. All of these entities provided solid support to the reform process.

The component of incentives for efficiency gains, however, did suffer from insufficient follow-up at the
technical level. The performance contracts with ICBF and SENA were meant to be studied, validated, and
replicated elsewhere, but the process did not achieve its final stage.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The FIAL Program was originally envisioned in the 2002-2006 CAS as four loans totaling $900 million.
The first loan for $300 million and the second loan for $150 million became effective on March and
November 2003, respectively. The third loan originally envisaged for $150 million was approved in March
2005 for $100 million and became effective on April 26, 2005. Following the third loan which brought
cumulative disbursements under the program to a total of $550 million, the Government and the Bank
agreed to suspend the program.

The "Management of the Public Sector Reform Process" component that was being supported by a US$
790,000 PHRD Grant, was suspended in tandem with the decision to terminate the FIAL program. At the
time of the PHRD cancellation, US$ 280,000 had been disbursed.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of tax policy, tax administration, and fiscal responsibility reforms is highly likely. All
have been established through an adequate mix of legal reforms and institutional strengthening efforts that
have already stood the test of time and shown good results. The institutions which are in charge of their
implementation (MHCP and DIAN) have shown a high degree of commitment and have established the
proper institutional setting for their sustainability. The policy environment is ideal in the sense that they
are key elements of the fiscal adjustment process that is at the forefront of the government's agenda.

The sustainability of the asset management and legal defense of the State reforms is likely. New teams of
highly skilled professionals have entered DNP and the Ministry of Interior and Justice to manage these
relatively new areas in public administration. The legal frameworks have been adjusted accordingly, and
both entities have assigned an adequate level of budgetary resources to ensure their future operation. The


                                                       - 29 -

policy environment is encouraging given the drive to reduce contingent liabilities and improve efficiency in
the use of public resources. Reforms to the royalty management framework are also considered likely as
Law 715 has been tried and tested, and the incorporation of the Royalty Fund into DNP increases the
possibility of their use being fully aligned with the government's objectives.

Sustainability of reforms in the areas of budget reform and management contracts is highly unlikely.
There is no real budget reform to speak of given the failure of the associated constitutional and legal
reforms, and the improvements that have been observed in terms of revised classifications and more precise
budget estimates are not necessarily sustainable. Finally, the attempt at implementing contracts as a
mechanism for performance management has not been successful. Although the specific cases of ICBF and
SENA have provided positive results, the scheme has not been adopted by DNP and is not being considered
among the options for implementing government-wide results-based management in the future.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank lending performance is rated Satisfactory. The design of the first loan, and hence the overall
program, was carried out according to good practice, including a strong linkage with the country's own
public sector reform agenda and a substantial body of analytical work (including existing work, the Bank's
policy notes, and specially commissioned papers from leading specialists). The initial Bank team was
structured under the seasoned co-task management of a lead public sector specialist and a lead economist
and included staff and consultants with diverse specialties. Senior Bank officials, including the Country
Director and a Sector Director, met with the highest government officials to review and refine the policy
package. Project design, although ambitious, was proven adequate given the negligible changes that the
program underwent through the third loan. Moreover, had two key pieces of legislation been approved as
expected, it would have likely moved ahead unchanged through the fourth loan with very high ratings.

The Bank's lending performance for the second and third loans was equally Satisfactory. The Bank based
a senior public sector specialist as task manager in Colombia, making continued program preparation an
ongoing and well articulated exercise with the counterparts. The task team made the necessary adjustments
in the program as required by country circumstances, but was careful not to deviate from the substance of
the development objectives. As noted by peer reviewers, Program Documents have been clear, thorough,
and objective in presenting the progress of the program. The Bank appropriately reduced the size of the
third FIAL and suspended preparation of a fourth operation to reflect the changing circumstances, On
balance, however, the Bank's support for a committed reformist government has helped achieve key results
on the ground in tax collection, defense of the state, asset management, and overall fiscal responsibility.
The remaining agenda, whose partial failures were due to factors largely outside the government's control,
on public expenditure and procurement will hopefully be overcome, through continued focus on these key
issues which have been illuminated with the help of the FIAL program.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision performance is rated Highly Satisfactory. The FIAL program supported a wide and
complex process of reforms that included long and short-term objectives and goals, and a diversity of issues
to be addressed simultaneously. Many of these were critical for the success of the whole reform process.
In addition, the reform process was developed within a highly politicized environment affecting many of the
reform processes and especially those tied to legal reforms. All of these elements constituted substantial


                                                      - 30 -

challenges to program supervision. The Bank team capably followed, understood and assessed the reform
processes in all their aspects. It was also able to advise on international best practices and to coordinate
with government officers measures to ensure the sustainability of reforms.

Overall, the Bank was an active participant and an effective technical facilitator during all of the program's
stages. The fact that the task manager was based in Colombia helped make the policy dialogue easier and
well articulated with other elements, such as the MAFP II technical assistance loan. The Bank has also
approved two grants to support the program (a PHRD grant for the preparation of FIAL III and IV, and an
IDF grant for the modernization of asset management).

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower participation in program preparation is considered Satisfactory.

Initial program preparation benefited from a constant and productive dialogue with high-profile members of
the incoming Uribe administration, including the Minister of Finance and Public Credit and the Director of
the National Planning Department. Project preparation was placed directly under the Vice-minister of
Finance and the Deputy Director of DNP, who in turn involved the Director of the Public Sector
Modernization Program for all areas related to institutional reform. Additionally, two high-caliber
professionals were assigned by MHCP and DNP to serve as full-time coordinator/facilitators for all phases
of project preparation and implementation. Given the fact that the program responded directly to the
incoming government's reform agenda, it was assigned a high level of priority by the Government and
enjoyed a considerable level of client ownership and commitment.

Borrower participation in the preparation of the second and third operations was understandably not as
intensive as for the first loan, but still benefited from the participation of the Vice-Minister of Finance and
the Deputy Director of the National Planning Department. Technical teams became heavily involved
though, in particular the DNP's Department of Public Policy Evaluation, who took the leadership in
monitoring and evaluating the program's progress, therefore providing feedback to the design of the second
and third loans.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated as Satisfactory.

Although program implementation did not go as originally envisioned and was therefore halted after the
third loan, responsibility should not be fully assigned to the Government. The failure of the Constitutional
amendment attempt, the Referendum, and the proposals to amend the Organic Budget Code and the
Procurement Law were mostly due to external factors. Authorities showed a consistent and unwavering
commitment to implement these reforms and often came up with viable alternatives when they failed.
Clearly, the workings of a complex democracy like Colombia, with abundant checks and balances, will not
always produce all originally envisioned reform outcomes.

However, several people interviewed for this report consider that the negotiations with Congress could have
been handled more effectively. For example, the procurement bill was initially given an "urgent" label
when submitted to Congress, meaning that it had to be discussed and voted on under a fast-track process.
This label was removed by the Government itself before it was approved, to make way for other legislation



                                                        - 31 -

that became of higher priority. Despite arguments in favor of the big-picture validity of this particular
action, the reform program did suffer a setback due to this.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementing Agency performance is rated Satisfactory.

All agencies involved (MHCP, DNP, DIAN, Ministry of Interior and Justice) provided top-notch technical
teams to support program implementation, developed sound monitoring and evaluation mechanisms, and
actively sought policy dialogue with and advice from Bank experts.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower performance was Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The initial program design was carried out before the new OP8.60 was approved, so it did not benefit from
many of the updated guidelines and good practices that current DPL operations build upon. Given this fact
and the experiences accumulated through program implementation, the following lessons have been learned:

l A program with a high number of components faces particular risks. The FIAL program had a
    total of 11 components in 4 broad groupings. Although the elements of FIAL do "make sense" together,
    the sheer breadth of topics, each with a specific reform plan, made the program particularly risky. The
    risks arise from several fronts: (i) the failure of a single component places the entire program at risk,
    since the assumption is that the program is a coherent "whole" that will lose integrity if parts are
    removed; (ii) transaction costs for the Bank can become unsustainably high, due to the need to deal
    with multiple implementing agencies, retain multi-sector competency in the supervising team, and
    achieve enough analytical depth in each of the sectors; and (iii) as program implementation moves
    along, it is easy for an observer to lose the grasp of the overall program's coherence or raison d'être.
    In the case of FIAL, this happened as it was often considered to be a fiscal adjustment operation and
    therefore subject to different standards.

l The number of policy actions should be kept reasonable. Related to the previous point, but
    regardless of the conceptual breadth of the program, the number of disbursement conditions for each
    loan should be kept to 10 or below. High numbers of policy actions increase the risk of the program,
    add to transaction costs, and often do not add substance. A focus on results should be attempted. In
    the case of FIAL, that was done in the tax administration component, where the initial focus on a large
    set of specific actions (developing taxpayer registries, carrying out a particular number of audits,
    improving information quality, and more) was substituted later on by two results indicators (evasion
    and efficiency).

l If possible, the passage of laws should be avoided in the policy matrix. This is certainly difficult,
    as many reforms depend upon the passage of laws by Congress. However, a careful assessment of the
    political economy of reforms needs to be made during program design to gauge the probability of bills
    being successfully passed by Congress. In cases where the assessment indicates a relatively low
    probability, the scope of the reform program should be narrowed to include only those elements under
    the Executive Branch's control.

l A coherent and comprehensive package of technical assistance needs to accompany the reform
    program. FIAL benefited considerably from several sources of technical assistance, most notably the



                                                       - 32 -

    Bank-funded MAFP II loan, which supported reforms in tax administration, budgeting, procurement,
    and overall reform management. An IDF grant was approved for asset management, as was a PHRD
    grant to support program preparation. Other agencies, such as the IDB, also provided support to the
    public sector modernization program. Without this TA support, results would have not been
    satisfactory in certain investment-heavy components, such as tax administration.

l Monitoring and evaluation arrangements must be ready up-front. Programs often include the
    development of baseline indicators and monitoring arrangements during implementation. In the case of
    FIAL, work on a baseline took place after the program began and did not accurately capture the reality
    before the program began to have an effect. It is advisable for M&E arrangements, including baseline
    indicators, data sources, periodicity of evaluations, and impact hypotheses, to be fully defined or
    operational before program initiation.

l Task management from the field adds significant value. The case of FIAL, as well as other
    complex, multi-sector DPL's that have their task managers in the field, demonstrates that close and
    constant interaction with the client improves the probability of a successful outcome. The country
    knowledge that resident TTL's have adds value to all phases of the project cycle, and interaction with
    other donors that have related activities in the country is significantly facilitated.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                                               Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
                                                                                               Republic of Colombia
                                                                                       National Planning Department




      PROGRAMMATIC FISCAL AND INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURAL
                              ADJUSTMENT LOAN III ( FIALIII)

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                                    (ICR)
                                          DECEMBER 2005




                                                     - 33 -

                                             Introduction

The following document presents the assessment of the Government of Colombia of the
results obtained with support of the three World Bank-financed Fiscal and Institutional
Structural Adjustment Loans, which totaled US$550 million and ran between February 2003
and March 2005.        Upon its initial design in late 2002, the FIAL program was structured into
four loans totaling up to US$900 million; however, after the approval of the FIAL III loan, the
Government agreed with the World Bank to suspend the program at that stage, given the
difficulties in obtaining Congressional approval of two important pieces of legislation.

Overall, the Government of Colombia considers that the FIAL program was well inserted within
the administration's overall reform agenda. It supported several key reform initiatives led by
the National Planning Department and the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, producing
important results in public sector modernization and fiscal management. Given its priority, the
Government of Colombia assigned a highly qualified team of professionals to promote and
monitor the reform process and serve as direct liaison to the World Bank team. This document
was prepared by this team of professionals and presents the main results by each area of
influence of the FIAL program.

Even though the program ended prematurely, the Government of Colombia considers that
progress in the reform agenda supported by this program has been satisfactory.             Major
improvements in tax revenue have been achieved, both through tax reforms as well as
improvements in tax administration. A new fiscal responsibility framework is in place, which
gives us added guarantees of fiscal sustainability in the medium and long term. Significant
institutional improvements have been made that should make public expenditure more efficient
in the medium term, which are being implemented through the Public Administration
Renovation Program (PRAP); these include a new asset management framework, major
improvements to the way the State defends itself in judicial processes, modernization of the
tools for monitoring and evaluation, and others.

Factors outside the Government's control ­ in particular the non-approval of the Organic
Budget Code and reforms to the Procurement Law by Congress ­ did constitute setbacks to
the reform agenda. However, the Government remains committed to these and other reforms
and is finding ways to take them as far as possible within the limitations of the current legal
framework or continuing with attempts at legal reform.            Important improvements to the
budgeting system are being carried out through executive decree, and a bill to reform the
procurement system has been re-submitted to Congress.

The Government considers that the partnership with the World Bank in this endeavor has been
fruitful and has enriched the policy content of the reform process.         In addition, we have
benefited from several sources of technical assistance to implement the activities, including the
Bank-funded MAFP II loan, PHRD and IDF grants, and operations with the Inter-American
Development Bank and other lenders. This package of adjustment and investment lending has
helped materialize the results we see today, and should be considered a good practice for
providing support to countries undertaking reform programs such as this.




                                                 - 34 -

1. Management of the Reform Process

Policy Objective: Support a Coherent and Comprehensive Reform Implementation

CONPES document 3248 of 2002 gathered the strategies that have been in application within
the framework from the renovation of the public administration. It also defined the basic
guidelines for action in other aspects of involvement of the PRAP. This document has become
the cornerstone of the development of policy documents for the cross-sectional strategies
outlined there, as well as the actions of the Program.

The application of reforms in the structure of the State is a natural and on going process,
government after government. All the reforms, like the ones supported by the PRAP, have two
noticeable components: the political coordination and the technical coordination of each
intervention.

The political coordination of the PRAP stems from the Presidency of the Republic, which
delegates in the DNP the responsibility to carry out the actions to materialize the proposed
objectives. In addition, the Ministry of Finance and the DAFP are members of the directive
committee of the PRAP. This way we can ensure that the objective of the Program is
adequate.

Having reviewed the results expected at the end of the Program, it is possible to review some
of the advances that the PRAP in its role of coordinator and guarantor of the conceptual and
procedural coherence of the different strategies that compose it.

In the matter of institutional strengthening and focalization of goods and services the PRAP
advances from beginning of the present Government, the so-called vertical reforms, which
have undergone its first phase with two important phases: in the first place, the implementation
of immediate actions in Ministries and Administrative Departments within the framework of the
extraordinary faculties given to the President and whose objective was to obtain a tangible
improvement in the quality and quantity of the goods and services in charge of organizations
that have social and fiscal impact, and simultaneously to break the unsustainable incremental
tendency of operational expenses.

Secondly, until the 31 of January of 2004, within the framework of the Plan of Social
Protection, the institutional redesign of the remaining organizations was undertaken, with the
main objectives of to rethink the role of the State by sector, redesign internal organizations and
institutional networks, rationalize personnel plants and to reduce the expenses of operation,
looking for to generate savings to reassign resources in the provision of goods and services of
the State.

At the moment the PRAP is executing the second phase of the vertical reforms of the State,
which implies the intervention of a certain number of high-priority organizations by four-year
period, as is defined in CONPES Document 3248 of 2003. The main target of this phase is to
carry out managerial reforms with a medium and long term economic vision, under a concept of
marginal productivity and balance of cost benefit.

As a complement to the actions of restructuring of the State, this Administration has designed
and launched 12 reforms to make public sector management more efficient. These are called



                                               - 35 -

"cross-sectional reforms". Following are the main results of some of these reforms.

As part of the reform of public employment, the approval of the Law 909 of 2004 stands out.
This law sets out regulations for public employment, civil service and the public sector
management. The approval of this Law lays down an integral policy on public employment,
geared to guarantee the entry, permanence and the retirement from employment exclusively
based on merit, and introduces new elements of management of the human resource, such as
temporary employment, the functional schemes of employment, the strategic plans for human
resources and for the first time in the Colombian legal framework, the mandatory selection and
evaluation of public managers based solely on technical grounds.

In exercise of the extraordinary faculties granted by Congress in said Law, the Executive
issued 7 decrees with strength of law, with which he regulated important aspects for the
operation of civil service, among which stand out Decree-Law 770 of 2005 (general system of
functions and requirements for the national level) in which criteria are incorporated to identify
labor capabilities so that the access to the public service goes beyond the mere demonstration
of academic titles; and Decree-Law 785 of 2005 (system of job nomenclature, classification
and the functions and general requirements for the use of sub-national governments), through
which the nomenclature of the employment of these organizations is purified and simplified
without implying an increase in the wage bill.

With the expedition of these Decree-Laws, the National Commission of the Civil Service has
been enabled to summon all the vacant or interim posts at the national and sub-national level,
and begin a process in which all the positions of the State are filled based exclusively on merit.

To optimize investment and to modernize the information systems of the State, the Inter-sector
Commission of Policies and Management of the Information - Coinfo- was created through
Decree 3816 of 2003. It is an instance that seeks to articulate the initiatives in electronic
government of the different sectors, and to generate economies of scale in the development
and administration of the technologies of public information. Within the framework of this
Commission, the guidelines of policy in the matter of standards of information, interoperability
and sector maps of information have been defined; in 2004, 101 projects of information
systems valued at over one billion pesos were evaluated.

These initiatives have generated an improvement in the international scope. For example, in
"government availability on line", which refers to the construction of a model for the
measurement of services of the State in line with an index that assesses Internet sites,
telecommunications infrastructure and the capacities of the human resource, the country
moved up 13 places in the world-wide ranking of the UN (191 countries), jumping from place
57 in 2003 to 44 in 2004, being sixth in South and Central America.

As far as "electronic participation" (e-Participation), which refers to the involvement of citizens
with electronic services, Colombia is in the "Top 10" among the 191 member countries of the
UN, ascending 46 positions with respect to the 2003. The frequency in their consultations and
the access to the electronic services expanded e-participation.

On the other hand, within the framework of the cross-sectional reform to regulatory and control
entities, particularly in the case of the Commissions of Regulation, clear procedures have been
implemented to guarantee the regulatory discipline and the accountability to the President.
These measures were adopted by the executive by means of Decree 2696 of 2004, by which


                                                - 36 -

the conditions for public debate of regulatory resolutions of general character are established,
as well as a special procedure for the tariff changes; in the case of the latter, regional public
consultations were designed in which all interested parties will be able to participate (regulated
entities and users).

The same decree defines the minimum expected content for the Commissions of Regulation to
render accounts of their management during the previous period and an impact evaluation of
regulation in sector dynamics every third year.

As far as the super-intendances, regarding public employment, decree 775 of 2005 and
regulatory decree 2929 of 2005 were issued, through which a specific system of civil service
for super-intendances of the national public administration is implemented. In this system the
entrance by merit is established, guaranteeing quality human resource, procedures for the
evaluation of the public servants with the institutional objectives as a frame of reference and, in
addition, incentive systems are being considered to promote institutional initiative in proper
management of the human resource.

Progress has also been achieved in the previous stages of consolidation of the institutional
reforms for the Super-intendances; this has been the case of Superbancaria, Supervalores,
and Supersalud.

Finally, a proposed bill of law is in discussion by different administrative sectors to establish a
common legal regime for all the super-intendances, which would manage to integrate and to
consolidate the model of inspection, monitoring and control of the State in the economy.

As resulting from CONPES 3248, it is established that a high-priority objective is to have
updated information on the results and possible impacts of the interventions, for which a
scheme of evaluation of the reform is being implemented, which mainly looks to determine the
changes in productivity of the organizations that are part by the program, as well as the
effectiveness of the reforms themselves in reaching the goals and generating end products for
the State and society. Some of the impacts are expected to be seen in the medium to long
term.

The main approach given to this scheme of evaluations is the construction of baselines that
allow the measurement, on the one hand, of the performance of the actions carried out in
pursuit of the stated objectives; and on the other, to identify the changes in those strategic
aspects that have been modified by the reform of the State.

The actions carried out in this area have enabled the provision of tools of monitoring and
evaluation to the PRAP which contribute to a better execution of the reforms and to the
monitoring over time of the performance of the objectives and plans. These systems of
monitoring and evaluation are made up, in general, by indicators related to the different levels
of the reform: i) general mission, II) specific objectives, III) plans of action, IV) results.

As resulting from these evaluations, the PRAP will be able to take concrete and focused
actions in the reforms of Legal Defense and Public Procurement. Soon the evaluation will be
expanded to include a group of institutions involved in vertical reforms, as well as the reform of
Management of Assets, Public Service reform, and the E-Government reform.




                                                 - 37 -

The Evaluation of the reform of the Legal Defense of the State

This evaluation shows a base line composed of a set of 28 indicators related with all levels of
the reform: general and specific objectives, action plans, and short and long term results. Both
the base line and the preliminary result shown for this evaluation have been validated for the
DNP and the Ministry of Interior and Justice (MIJ). From now on it is possible to monitoring the
progress of the reform and take actions in those aspects in witch the results are poor, as well
as bringing more effort in those aspect in witch the reform is strong an its showing a potential
of good impact on the legal defense of the State.

Main conclusions and opportunities of the evaluation

Ø        Is important to discriminate short and long term results: due to the time between the
moment in which the incident occurs and the final verdict of the judge. However the action
plans are fundamentals in the short term to get the reduction of the claims and pays for
sentences and conciliations that is get only in the long term.
Ø        The trend in payments for legal claims and conciliations is still increasing: the
evaluation insists in not use absolute criteria's based only in the pays in the short term for the
reasons exposed above
Ø        The increasing trend of the contingent passive could indicate wrongly that the reform is
failing in the short term
Ø        There is judicial dispersion among sector of the public administration as well as among
entities inside specific sectors: there are sector and entities that on average show different
levels of success on their legal defense. It is important to include these aspect on the
implementation of the management models
Ø        It's required urgently a systematic plan of implementation in witch the MIJ gather the
length and consequences of the activities needed to reach the goals in the agreed terms
Ø        It is required a high degree of articulation between the MIJ and the Ministry of Finance

Finally the DNP is preparing a publications of the methodology used for these evaluations as
well of the result. The base line of 28 indicator each one associated with an objective and an
action plan, and presenting the most actual data of the reform is presented below:

            Indicator name          Unit of             Source                Base line  First     Second   July 2005
                                    measure-                                             Update    Update    Update
                                     ment
 I1   Value paid for sentences as     %       Budget Directorate - Division   0,176%    0,220%    0,220%    0,220%
      % of public internal debt              of Budgetary Consolidation and
                                                        CONFIS
 I2   Growth of the payments of       %        Budget Directorate - Division   1,494%    1,252%    1,252%    1,252%
      S&C with respect to the                of Budgetary Consolidation and
      growth of the internal public                     CONFIS
      debt of the central sector
 I3   Value paid by S&C              Million Budget Directorate - Division of 120,563.6 162,956.8 162,956.8 162,956.8
                                     pesos       Budgetary Consolidation
 I4   Costs of delayed payments       %      Budget Directorate - Division of    ND        ND        ND        ND
                                              Budgetary Consolidation and
                                                          MIJ
 I5   Savings in lost cases at        %       Information system of the MIJ      ND        ND        ND        ND
      sentencing
 I6   Savings through conciliation    %       Information system of the MIJ      ND        ND        ND        ND
      of cases
 I7   Savings through cases won      Million  Information system of the MIJ      ND        ND        ND        ND
                                     pesos




                                                        - 38 -

I8   Precision of the estimation of      %     Information system of MIJ and         ND        ND        ND         ND
     contingencies of the MFMP                              MFMP
     regarding the obligations by
     S&C sentences
 I9 Reliability   of    the     budget   %     Budget Directorate - Division of       ND        ND        ND     ND
    estimates                                  Budgetary Consolidation and MIJ
I10  Coordination budgeting and          %     Budget Directorate - Division of    24,6%     24,6%     24,6%     24,6%
     estimation contingencies                   Budgetary Consolidation and
                                                 Direction of Public Credit,
                                               Division of Contingent Liabilities
I11  Correspondence of the base          %     Budget Directorate - Division of      ND        ND        ND         ND
     with the budget                            Budgetary Consolidation and
                                                             MIJ
I12 Number     of   labor     demands   Amount  Information system of the MIJ        In an     In an     In an  In an
    generated by sector                                                            attached  attached  attached attach
                                                                                  document  document  document   ed
                                                                                                                docu
                                                                                                                ment
I13 Percentage of cases won by           %      Information system of the MIJ        In an     In an     In an  In an
    labor demands by sector                                                        attached  attached  attached attach
                                                                                  document  document  document   ed
                                                                                                                docu
                                                                                                                ment
I14  Number        of     contractual   Amount Information system of the MIJ       In an     In an     In an       In an
     demands generated by sector                                                  attached  attached  attached  attached
                                                                                  document  document  document  document
I15 Percentage of cases gained by        %      Information system of the MIJ        In an     In an     In an  In an
    contractual demands by sector                                                  attached  attached  attached attach
                                                                                  document  document  document   ed
                                                                                                                docu
                                                                                                                ment
I16  Number      of   demands     by    Amount Information system of the MIJ       In an     In an     In an       In an
     extra-contractual                                                            attached  attached  attached  attached
     responsibility generated by                                                  document  document  document  document
     sector
I17 Percentage of gained cases           %      Information system of the MIJ        In an     In an     In an  In an
    demands by extra-contractual                                                   attached  attached  attached attach
    responsibility by sector                                                      document  document  document   ed
                                                                                                                docu
                                                                                                                ment
I18  Coverage of the MIJ database        %                 DDJ, MIJ                83,18%    83,18%    83,18%     83,18%

I19  Coverage of the MIJ database        %                   MIJ                    70.8      70.8      70.8       70.8

I20  Level      of     jurisprudence    Amount             DDJ, MIJ                   1         2         2         2
     systematization
I21  Level of systematization of        Amount              PRAP                   21000     21000     39219       39219
     norms
I22  Level     of   application    of   Amount             DDJ MIJ                    0         1         1         1
     medium      an     long    term
     strategies in critical areas
     (labor,       extra-contractual
     responsibility and hiring)
I23  Issuance     of   bulletins   or   Amount               MIJ                      1         1         1         1
     administrative acts on the
     GJP
I24  Coverage of the training plan      Amount               MIJ                      0         0         0         0
I25  Average frequency of training      Amount The Reform of the GJP, training        0         0         0         0
     in organizations                                    component
I26 Deviation of the frequency of       Amount The Reform of the GJP, training        0         0         0       0
    training                                               component
I27  Quality of the training plan       Amount               MIJ                      0         0         0         0
I28 Coverage        of       incentives Amount               MIJ                      0         0         0       0
    professional bodies




                                                           - 39 -

It is important to say that due to the low degree of implementation of some of the action plans
of the reform there are indicators without data at all. Nevertheless the DNP already counts with
the route to obtain the data when ready.

The Evaluation of the Public Procurement reform

The objective of this evaluation was to estimate which of the characteristics of the procedures
of procurement explain the efficiency on the final acquisitions of the public sector in Colombia.
The study center its focus on the impact on:

Ø        The difference between the prices of acquisition compared with the prices on the
market
Ø        The relation between the differences on theses prices and the procedures used in the
acquisition process.

To obtain these evaluation objectives the study has the following phases:

1.       Identification and clarification of the typical procedures of the public procurement:
based on the laws in force
2.       Data collection: due to the size of the public procurement the study takes data only of
goods and service considered homogeneous or uniform. The evaluation design a survey
based on sample extracted from the system of the Contraloría General to obtain the data
required to the analysis taking into account the lack of information of the state systems
3.       Definition of the reference prices and econometric analysis: first the evaluation make
inquires on the market prices for the goods and services identified on the sample. Then the
evaluation makes the econometric analysis to find the procedures that are impacting the final
efficiencies of the procurements.
4.       Recommendations and conclusions based on the analysis mentioned above

The evaluation of the procurement reform is an effort to monitoring the efficiency of the public
procurement of homogenous goods and service. Nevertheless is clear for the DNP that the
methodology, the sample and the survey are susceptible of get better. As well as the
evaluation of the legal defense the DNP is preparing a document to be published soon with
both, the methodology used and the results founded.

The impact of these measures is vital for the Government and very important for the State in
so far as it begins to consolidate information tools and technical coordination of its actions of
institutional change, and considering that until now there were no baselines or monitoring and
evaluation indicators.

Other impacts:

- In order to consolidate a culture focused on management by results in the Colombian public
administration, it is necessary to establish mechanisms that allow for the expansion and
permanent development of capacities of monitoring and evaluation (M&E). For this, it is
necessary to train government officials and academics in the design and use of different types
from tools and methodologies of M&E. Sinergia organized the international seminar "Why
evaluate public expenditure? International experiences and the Colombian case", (September
2004), with the presence of international experts and members of the government, academy
and civil society. This effort will be repeated year after year looking for the consolidation of



                                                   - 40 -

capacities of M&E in the Colombian State.

- Regarding the introduction and modernization of the managerial instruments of the State of
monitoring and evaluation of public management, we emphasize: i) introduction of mechanisms
of programmatic classification of the investment budget and budgeting by results with the
deployment of two pilots in capital cities (Pasto and Medellín), II) tool for programming and
management of presidential goals -SIGOB- with which the citizen is able to make permanent
monitoring and in real time to the results of the government, III) increase of the percentage of
the investment budget that is evaluated, from 4,13% in 2002 to 17.8% in 2005 using minimum
standards for the development of impact evaluations.

- Finally and as indirect impact of the FIAL, a line of work of evaluations of institutional
developments in the Colombian State was developed within Sinergia. This area of Sinergia has
been responsible for the elaboration of baselines for the reforms and of documents that
standardize the methodologies and practices of evaluation of institutional development.

The integral reform of evaluation and management by results - of which these focused
evaluations are part ­ took form with CONPES 3294 of June 2004, which established three
objectives: (i) to contribute to the increase in efficiency and transparency in the process of
allocation of resources; (II) to improve the impact of the policies, programs and public
institutions; and (III) to promote the accountability of the public administration by strengthening
the role of civil society. These objectives, altogether, contribute to improve the impact and
efficiency of investment, increase transparency and orient public management towards results.

The National System of Evaluation was structured around three complementary components: i)
Monitoring of Results, II) Focused Evaluations; and III) Dissemination of Results for
accountability.

In order to establish a strong linkage between the results and the allocation of resources, the
DNP implemented the programmatic classifications of the investment budgets of 2003, 2004
and 2005. Also, a budget of investment by results for use 2005 prepared jointly with the
ministries and the agencies, promoting the integration of the National System of Evaluation to
the budgetary process. As part of the monitoring that the DNP makes of the progress of the
National Development Plan, a report of results from the President to Congress was elaborated,
which compiles the main advances of the Government and a description of the sources,
distribution and execution of the resources of investment of the Nation in each one of the
objectives of the National Development Plan.

For the Government, these reports fulfill two purposes. On the one hand, they make effective
the exercise of accountability to Congress, other institutions and civil society, facilitating the
exercise of their responsibilities to oversee the Executive. On the other, they realize the
principles and practice of a results-oriented public sector management based upon the
comparison of the initial conditions, goals and achievements obtained by the Administration.

For the elaboration of these reports, the DNP in coordination with the Presidency of the
Republic has implemented the System of Programming and Management by Objectives and
Results - Sigob ­ in 57 organizations and five presidential programs. This technological
platform, main source of information of Sinergia, has modernized the processes of information
harvesting and strengthened the monitoring and control tasks, being a tool within reach of the
citizenship that serves as base for accountability processes.


                                               - 41 -

Regarding focused evaluations of programs and policies, the most important result is the
increase in 13,7 points of the annual investment budget that is evaluated. The increase was
from 4.13% in 2002 to 17.8% in 2005, reaching a 77% of the goal for the presidential period .
At the end of the four-year period it is expected that 23.9% of the total of the investment
budget of the Nation will be evaluated.


Contributing to this result have been the impact evaluations of the Families, Employment and
Youth in Action, Older Adult, and mixed corporations of farming investigation programs, as well
as the evaluation of the Program of Renovation of the Public Administration - PRAP -, which
seeks to evaluate the gains in the productivity of the entities that have taken part, and the
achievements of the reforms to modernize the practices of public management
(cross-sectional).

With the purpose of showing the results the evaluations and the monitoring efforts, as well as
to enliven social control, the Department launched a transparency and accountability strategy.
Through this strategy, channels of information have been institutionalized, allowing for the
distribution of 25 virtual reports of evaluation and 21 publications to government officials,
international organizations, Congress, private sector, academics and NGO's. Additionally, an
outreach pilot exercise was designed and implemented based on the results of the Plan of
Social Reactivation through 82 community and public interest radio stations in different zones
of the country.

  2. Legal Defense of the State

Policy Objective: Improve the capacity of the State to reduce and respond to legal claims and
diminish to their fiscal cost.

Another of the cross-sectional components of the PRAP is Public Legal Management, which
faces serious difficulties stemming from the lack of planning, deficiencies in coordination,
insufficient evaluation, unequal competition with the external actors and the inadequacy of
studies and analysis of information.

These difficulties have been reflected in a model of management that is reactive, characterized
by the concentration of the efforts in projects and short-term goals, focused on litigation,
spread thin according to the demand, and supported in a barely qualified, unmotivated and
unrecognized human resource. All this has led to Public Legal Management being curative
instead of preventive, and vulnerable to corruption.

The deficiency in information and reliable diagnoses led to the recommendation by CONPES to
define a series of stages that are being undertaken as an indispensable step to enable the
State to define goals that allow it to improve their legal defense capabilities and contribute to
reducing the fiscal impact of the outcomes. The same cannot be said regarding a reduction in
the number of demands, objective that does not depend exclusively on the government's
activities and that does not indicate its efficiency in this field either.

The policy objective is and continues being very clear. Nevertheless, although the components
of the program aim at the achievement of the objective, once its execution began it was
detected that it was not only necessary to advance to the components indicated in the


                                                 - 42 -

CONPES, but also focus on attacking the root causes of the litigation damage, for example,
inflation and the uncertainty over the legal framework, deficient analysis of information, studies
and investigation, etc. In summary, although the Document CONPES was on the mark given
the moment it was prepared and the deficient information available at the time, the objectives
of the program have been redirected beyond quantifying the processes in which the Nation is
involved and the contingent liabilities that these generate. A program of Integral Legal
Management has been undertaken, by means of which all the components of the CONPES
document will work through four fronts, this is, judicial defense, legal counseling, the
production of regulations and public procurement. However, it is premature to reasonably
define a priori the fiscal impacts, considering that specific diagnostic elements were absent at
the beginning, which would facilitate a realistic estimate of the lawsuits and sentences, as well
as the causes for State responsibility.

It must mentioned that the four elements that make up management - the legal counseling,
production of regulations, procurement and the judicial defense - are disarticulated and are
approached without suitable managerial tools. The adequate performance of the functions in
this field is of paramount importance, not only because of the fiscal impact that can be caused
by a deficient judicial defense that stems from inadequately prepared contracts, in challenged
regulations or decisions made by mistaken legal advice, but also by the insecurity that it
generates in the citizens.

Along these lines, the Administration has insisted on positioning the concept of "public legal
management" and to approach it like a fundamental component of public management,
therefore giving urgency to the design and adoption from a new model of management. This
paradigm shift implies the need to articulate the traditional components of legal management;
implement analysis, study and investigation and to apply modern managerial tools.

Against this background the government has worked over the last years, as more knowledge of
the subject has been acquired. There is clear political will to confront it, the required regulatory
framework has been established, the responsible entities have been empowered, there is
greater coordination and those Programs and Projects that have been adopted have reported
significant progress.

Regarding Legal Defense of the State, the project has the following objectives: to establish an
integral policy that prevents patrimonial loss derived from anti-legal acts and to determine lines
of action to optimize the defense of the interests of the State, through the design of prevention
measures and the systemic restructuring, including institutional, human resources, normative
and technological aspects.

Important advances have been reported in this front:

-        Presidential Directive 02 of 2003 was issued: Order on alternative methods of conflict
resolution between state entities. The intervention of the DDJN of the MIJ has allowed
important savings by means of the public conciliation of conflicts between organizations.
-        CONPES 3250 document was issued: Lines of action for strengthening the Legal
Defense of the Nation and for the valuation of contingent liabilities.
-        The Direction of Judicial Defense of the Nation of the Department of the Interior and of
Justice has been well positioned and coordinates the litigious activities of the organizations of
the APN, through the counselor's, monitoring and directives.
-        By legal mandate, the Direction of Judicial Defense of the MIJ must coordinate the


                                               - 43 -

judicial defense in the lawsuits against the Nation valued at over 2000 monthly minimum
wages (763 million pesos).

The previous year the DDJN participated in the direction of more than 1,600 lawsuits, whose
quantity added around 22 billion pesos as can be observed in the Graph that appears next.




                                              - 44 -

                                                Graph 2
                                   Conflicts greater to 2000 SMLMV
                                          (30 most significant)




Source : Direction of Judicial Defense of the Nation , Ministry of Interior and Justice

-      With the expedition of Presidential Directive 01 of 2004 which mandates reporting
standards for litigious activity, the valuation of contingent liabilities and the adoption of the



                                                  - 45 -

Unique Format of Information, the DDJN has advanced a careful process of compilation and
analysis of the information reported by the different organizations and has enabled the
determination that the Nation faces nearly 77,000 lawsuits, of which it is the defendant in 65
thousand. The potential liability from these processes can add up to 100 billion pesos, detailed
in the following graph.
                                               Graph 3
                                    Potential Liability by Sector
                                            (Million Pesos)




Source : Direction of Judicial Defense of the Nation , Ministry of Interior and Justice

The Project of Rationalization and Simplification of the Legal Framework, ordered through




                                                  - 46 -

Presidential Directive 1 of 2005, seeks the following objectives: the adoption of the policy and
directives, promotion of legal security, elimination of duplicity and contradiction of norms
generated by their continuous issuance without a previous analysis of normative coherence.

The project has several objectives; on the one hand, the elaboration of the normative
inventory, which includes the identification of the laws and decrees; the inventory of the
jurisprudence that affects the inventoried norms; the creation of sector-specific normative
frameworks and the determination of their applicability; updating the Normative Unique System
- SUIN, by means of the preparation of the Normative Unique Format - FUNOR and the
preparation of unique, sector-specific and thematic regulatory decrees.

The normative inventory has been completed, and 39,219 emitted Official Gazettes in 118
years (from 1886 to December of 2004) have been analyzed. The polished information throws
a total of 8,516 norms inventoried, released per decade, thus:

                                          Table 1

        Decades               Number of inventoried Norms
1886 to 1895                                   449
1896 to 1905                                   470
1906 to 1915                                   716
1916 to 1925                                   906
1926 to 1935                                 1.422
1936 to 1945                                 1.615
1946 to 1955                                 1.606
1956 to 1965                                 1.332
1966 to 1975                                 1.836
1976 to 1985                                 2.304
1986 to 1995                                 4.396
1996 to 2004                                 3.791
10 decades                                  20.843

Also, the inventory of jurisprudence moved ahead, from the sentences of the high Colombian
courts (Supreme Court of Justice, Constitutional Court and Council of State) contained in the
newspapers and official annals, as of 1992.

                                           Table 2

              Entity                                           Inventory
Supreme Court of Justice and Advice of          397 volumes of newspapers and annals
State
Constitutional court                            12 years of jurisprudence

On the other hand, and with the active participation of all the Sectors, the Normative Structure
was designed and the Unique System of Normative Information - SUIN was developed,
instrument of vital importance that will facilitate research by legal operators and public servants
in general, as well as citizens, thereby enabling the open analysis of the relevance of the norm.



                                                 - 47 -

Finally, it must be mentioned that the product of greatest impact achieved through this Project
will be the issuance of unique, sector-specific decrees, which will enable the reduction on the
proliferation of regulations and the clarification of the current regulatory labyrinth.

Additionally, the development of the strategy has implied the generation of teamwork as well
as a conscience in the administrative sectors over the importance of having a coherent and
therefore reliable legal framework for the country.

As has been shown, important efforts have been made to combat the weaknesses of public
legal management. Nevertheless, an integrated system is required which - under the guidance
of efficient central, sector-specific and institutional instances of coordination, establishes
policies that inform the labor of the legal operators in charge of the fronts of the GJP in the
various public sector entities, provides useful criteria and expertise and follows up on this work.
Along these lines, the "Models of Public Legal Management" project has begun, which will
provide the design and implementation of models of legal management in its four fronts, legal
counselor's, regulatory production, procurement and judicial defense for the organizations in
charge of the adoption of policies, evaluation and monitoring at national and sector-specific
level and for all the implementing entities at the National Public Administration.

3. Public Procurement

Policy Objective: Ensure that government procurement is transparent and efficient.

In this component, the objectives were aligned with the recommendations made by the 2001
CPAR, which were in turn incorporated into CONPES document 3249 in 2003, as one of the
main guidelines of public policy in the matter of procurement.

Given the various difficulties that arose in the agenda of discussion of the bill in Congress
which prescribed the creation of the normative body, related to the need to give way to other
high-priority initiatives such as the Constitutional reforms for re-election and pensions, the
statutory law of electoral guarantees and the law of justice and peace among others, it became
difficult to proceed and forced the search of other alternatives under the existing legal
framework to create of a governing instance.

The guidelines that support the process of renovation of the Public Administration led by the
present Government, and in particular, the process of reconstruction of the organizations that
promotes the optimization of the functional structures of the organizations, went against the
possibility of creating an independent normative body. In the understanding that procurement
is a cross-sectional subject to the management of organizations, it was concluded that the best
solution was that the governing instance had the character of an inter-sector commission for
the coordination and superior direction of the policy in the matter of public procurement.

Thus, via Decree 3620 of 2004, a governing body for public procurement was created, with the
responsibility to recommend decisions and guidelines to orient the procurement process and
make it efficient and transparent.

The Government designated as members the Minister of Finance, the Director of the National
Planning Department and a delegate from the President of the Republic; in addition it


                                                 - 48 -

established that the role of technical secretariat would fall on the National Planning
Department.

The Commission began its operation in the month of February 2005 and in carrying out its
duties it has studied the desirability of legal amendments that are taking course at the moment
in Congress, as well as of the decrees that have been issued during the present year.

In terms of designing instruments to make the procurement process more efficient, the
Commission produced and distributed a Manual of Good Practices for Public Procurement
Management, in which the main causes of potential liability have been defined and prevention
mechanisms are described, based upon the existing knowledge of lawsuits against the State.

At the moment, it is working in the standardization of the bidding documents and terms of
reference for procurement of supplies and works contract oversight.

In addition to the advances mentioned above, the following are important to mention as well:
Support to the negotiating team of the Free Trade Agreement with the United States in the
chapter of public procurement, Development of processes to standardize contractual
documentation, , and costrucción of indicators to measure costs associated to the contractual
processes.

4. Asset Management of the State



Policy Objective: Reduce losses and generate revenues through improved asset
management


The objective of generating revenue and savings has been achieved in a 100% in line with the
target established by the WB. Of the US$33 mm, that has been generated, 70% correspond to
net income. As far as the elimination of opportunities for corruption, given the present
regulatory framework, assets can only be sold at appraisal value, which is made by an external
organization such as the Agustin Codazzi Geographic Institute, which is considered the ideal
entity to carry this out with transparency and objectivity, value over which the sale has to be
made, since the current regulatory framework (Procurement Law) does not allow the sale
below this value.

The measures that have been accomplished have enabled the creation of a culture of
management of assets and positioning of the program, which channels the necessary changes
to the entities in the sale of assets.

The PROGA has established the institutional framework to give sustainability to the Program
through the creation of an Inter-sector Commission of Management of Assets that guarantees
and recommends the implementation of a series of policies formulated through its technical
secretariat. This institutional framework has fostered a culture of efficiently managing assets
efficiently and positioning the Program of Management of Assets, through its Technical
Secretariat, as a coordinating unit of the normative aspects and of management of the public
organizations of the central level. The institutional framework, which has trained and
disseminated the Program as far as the as legal and commercial regulatory framework, has led
to the generation of accumulated income and savings of up to US$33 million between 2003


                                                 - 49 -

and 2005.

The policies and measures implemented in this first stage have always been supported
through decrees that make them binding and sustainable in the long term, and the concepts
issued by the PROGA for an efficient management have a strong legal support which has
given PROGA and DNP credibility as a collaborator through its legal unit.

Additionally to what has been mentioned, the progress in PROGA has been the following:

The policy for the administration of assets, which regulates the processes of inventory, titling,
acquisition, allocation, and efficient use of government assets. The efficient management of
real estate by the entities of the central level of the State, has led to the generation of savings
and income in the following ways:
                                              Table 3

                     CUADRO RESUMEN BIENES INMUEBLES NIVEL CENTRAL
                CONCEPTO                              MONTO          PORCENTAJE
                Ventas                                44.138.565.403         56,31%


                Ahorros por Transferencia bienes
                entre Entidades del Estado
                                                         841.465.205          1,07%
                Transferencias ProgramasPlan
                Nacioan de DesarrolloND                4.095.226.244          5,22%
                Rentas                                29.033.889.679         37,04%

                Ahorro por transferenia bienes
                inmuebles a Entidades Territoriales
                                                         281.966.945          0,36%
                TOTAL                                 78.391.113.475        100,00%




                                                - 50 -

                                           Graph 4.
                      Income savings Program of Management of Assets
                                 ($ thousands of million pesos)


   200                                                                   7000

   180                                                          175
                                                         6.000           6000
   160

   140                                                                   5000

   120                                                                   4000
   100

    80                                            60                     3000
                                      48,5
    60                                                                   2000
                                                         2.000
    40                     35               2.396
               25
                                                                         1000
    20

     0           0           0                                           0
         Meta 2003 Avance 2003 Avance 2004 Meta Acum. Meta Acum.
                                                 2003-04       2003-06


                               Ahorros      Inventarios




Through asset management, income and savings have taken place that add to $78.4 billion.
Source: DNP Program of Renovation of the Public Administration

One of the most significant accomplishments in this area has been the generation, between
January of 2003 and December of 2004, of $44 billion pesos originating from the sale of 117
buildings in 16 auctions, the sale by public bidding of 8 buildings, and exchanges of 26
buildings. Also, savings by $5.2 billion pesos by concept of reduced expenses of administration
and maintenance of these assets and rents by $29 billion pesos have been generated. These
results fulfill the goal of generation of income and/or savings by 130%. The generation of
these income and/or savings has not required an investment on behalf of the Program of
Management of Assets; rather, it has been the dissemination of good practices by PROGA to
the organizations to manage idle real estate.

Additionally, the inventory of 2,396 real estate assets was made, achieving by 119% the goal
fixed for period 2003-04, which was to register 2,000 buildings in the Information system of
Management of Assets (graph 10).




                                               - 51 -

For achieving the objective of completing the inventories, an amount of $400 million pesos was
invested, which have been covered with the results of the above-mentioned sales.

     5. Tax Administration

Policy Objective: increase tax revenues, strengthen tax equity; reduce tax expenditure and
opportunities for corruption.

The executive branch attempted, through various initiatives in 2002, 2003 and 2004, to
broaden the VAT base to expand its coverage and reduce the distortions that are generated by
the excluded goods and services. However, in 2002, after being approved by Congress, the
inclusion in the VAT base of all the excluded and exempt goods and services at a 2% rate was
declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court.

In 2003, a tax reform proposal of the government was markedly modified by Congress. The
initial proposal had an important component in the matter of IVA that wound up being replaced
by measures related to a wealth tax and an additional point in the financial transactions tax. In
2004 the government presented yet another initiative to improve the national tax system but
Congress did not discuss it and the executive removed it from consideration.

In any case, the results obtained during the life of the program show that important objectives
have been achieved.

Firstly, tax revenues, which were 11% of GDP in 2000 and 13.5% in 2002, reached 14.7% in
2004, as shown in Table 8.

This remarkable growth is attributable, on the one hand, to the effects of tax reforms approved
by Congress during these years and, on the other, to improvements in the national tax
administration. During 2000-2004 tax reforms generated additional revenue of nearly 3.3% of
GDP, whereas the better performance of the tax administration contributed 0.4% of GDP.

One of the indicators traditionally used to evaluate the efficiency of the tax administrations
(cost of collection) also shows a significant improvement, specially in 2004. In 2003 the
administrative cost to collect $1000 was $10.2 and this relation diminished to $9.5 in 2004,
fulfilling the expectations of the program.




                                              - 52 -

                                                              Cuadro 8
                                  Estimación de la recaudación sin efectos de reformas tributarias
                                        Indicador de la gestión de la administración tributaria
                                                    Cifras en Millones de pesos
Concepto                                                  2000          2001           2002       2003       2004
Total Recaudo Bruto                                      19.295.107    24.869.759    27.553.395  32.302.529 37.864.439
Ley 633 de 2000                                                  0      3.658.040      3.460.000  3.535.884  4.300.537
Impuesto Seguridad Democrática                                   0              0      1.250.721  1.228.795     31.101
Ley 788 de 2002                                                  0              0              0  1.633.233  2.120.949
Ley 863 de 2003                                                  0              0              0          0  1.958.815
Efecto Acumulado Reformas                                        0      3.658.040      4.710.721  6.397.912  8.411.403
Total Recaudo sin Reformas                               19.295.107    21.211.718    22.842.674  25.904.617 29.453.036
                                                  Cifras como proporción del PIB
Total Recaudo Bruto                                          11,0%         13,2%          13,5%      14,0%      14,7%
Ley 633 de 2000                                               0,0%         1,94%           1,7%       1,5%      1,67%
Impuesto Seguridad Democrática                                                             0,6%       0,5%
Ley 788 de 2002                                                                                       0,7%       0,8%
Ley 863 de 2003                                                                                                  0,8%
Efecto Acumulado Reformas                                     0,0%          1,9%           2,3%       2,8%       3,3%
Total Recaudo sin Reformas                                   11,0%         11,2%          11,2%      11,2%      11,4%
Mejoras Aculadas en Administración Tributaria                 0,0%          0,2%           0,1%       0,2%       0,4%
Elaboró: Oficina de Estudios Económicos DIAN




                                                           - 53 -

                                                                      Cuadro 9
                             Indicadores de Desempeño de la Administración Tributaria
                              Posibles Compromisos ante Proyecto FIAL Banco Mundial
                                                        Miles de millones de pesos


      Concepto Años                                                                        2003                  2004                  2005

      Presupuesto DIAN (1)                                                                  330                   360                    363

      Recaudación Bruta Total (2)                                                       32.303                 37.864                 40.392

      Costo para recaudar $1.000*                                                          10,2                    9,5                   9,0

      Recaudación Sin Últimas Reformas (3)                                              32.200                  36.215                39.086

      Costo para recaudar $1.000 sin reformas*                                             10,3                    9,9                   9,3


      *: Valores expresados en pesos
      (1): Información suministrada por la Subsecretaría Financiera de la DIAN

      (2): En 2005 se incluyen $268 mil millones adicio nales po r elevar el indicador "Recaudación Neta de Reformas de 11,8% a 11,9%.
      (3): En el 2004 se sustraen de la recaudación total los siguientes efectos con respecto al 2003:
          No aplicación del impuesto de seguridad democrática -0,5% del PIB
          Entrada en vigencia de normas en renta de la ley 788 0,3% del PIB
          Efectos de la ley 863 0,8% del PIB
          Efecto total por cambio de legislación entre 2003 y 2004 =,6 del PIB
          En 2005 se resta de la recaudación total el mismo efecto neto de las reformas 0,6% del PIB


      Elaboró: Oficina de Estudios Económicos DIAN




A very important indicator that complements the previous results is the VAT evasion. Between
2002 and 2004 this indicator dropped by more than two points, continuing with a clear and
sustainable trend downward, that began in the year 2000 (see Table 10).

With respect to the reduction in tax expenditures and in spite of the difficulties in consolidating
tax reform, the elimination of an important number of tax benefits in income tax was achieved,
first through Law 788 of 2002 and Law 863 of 2003.




                                                                          - 54 -

                                                  Cuadro 10
                     Estimación de la Evasión en el Impuesto al Valor Agregado
                                             (Millones de pesos)


     AÑO        RECAUDO           RECAUDO          EVASIÓN      EVASIÓN/PIB         TASA     PUNTO
               POTENCIAL             NETO                                         EVASIÓN


     2000          11.363.787          8.346.741     3.017.046      1,7%               29,5%  113.638
     2001          13.629.453        10.058.035      3.571.418      1,9%               27,6%  136.295
     2002          14.885.630        10.968.760      3.916.870      1,9%               26,4%  148.856
     2003          17.109.885        13.127.530      3.982.355      1,7%               25,3%  171.099
     2004          19.566.063        15.144.629      4.421.433      1,7%               24,1%  195.661
    2005 (*)       22.168.969        17.491.826      4.677.142      1,7%               22,3%  221.690


 Recaudo Potencial: MIP Nueva Base Cuentas Nacionales (1994)
 Cálculos: Base Gravable IVA - Oficina de Estudios Económicos - DIAN
 Recaudo Efectivo: División de Mediciones Fisclaes- OEE - DIAN. Fecha de corte: Marzo 2005
 (*) Recaudo Neto proyectado para el año 2005



The progress achieved in terms of reducing tax expenditures is totally sustainable, as it was
introduced in the country's tax legislation. The achievements in terms of control of evasion and
increase in collections require, on the one hand, a new tax reform to replace some income of
temporary nature, and on the other, to maintain or increase the level of taxpayer service and
audits to ensure further reductions in tax evasion.

        6. Tax Reform

Policy Objective : Increase tax revenues, improve tax neutrality and equity, reduce tax
expenditures.

These objectives were achieved through the enactment of Laws 788 of 2002 and 863 of 2003,
as well as by the expedition of its Regulatory Decrees, through which the actual application of
the Laws takes place. The measures adopted in these Laws have reflected on a substantial
increase in tax collection, while reducing well-known income tax breaks (mainly in relation to
non-taxable income or occasional gain, as well as in exempt income) and by the expansion of
the VAT base.

The increase in revenue is due to measures of a temporary nature included in these Laws,
such as the 10% surtax on income tax (for years 2004 to 2006), the wealth tax of 0,3% (years
2004 to 2006), and the increase in the financial transactions tax from 0.3% to 0.4% (years
2004 to 2007).

Likewise, Laws 788 of 2002 and 863 of 2003 mandated control measures that have been very
successful; among those we can highlight the reduction of the income and wealth threshold to
pay income tax, the adoption of new Single (or Unified) Tax Registry - RUT, adjustment of the
requirements to enroll in the simplified regime for sales tax, and the refund of two points of
VAT to those people who purchase goods and services taxed at the general rate and at the of
7% rate (today 10%), using credit or debit cards.



                                                    - 55 -

As complement to Laws 788 of 2002 and 863 of 2003, the National Government submitted to
Congress a Project of Law of Social Financing in the second semester of 2004, which had the
main objective of securing funds to fully finance the National Budget, in particular to meet
pension payments. A tax on pensions was proposed, as well as to extend the VAT base to
improve its structure, reducing the thresholds for the wealth tax, reduce to 32% the income tax
rate beginning on 2008, and to adjust the treatment of the voluntary contributions to pension
funds and AFC accounts.

Despite this, numerous problems and criticisms arose during the discussions prior to the first
debate in Congress, which added to the little time available before the end of the fiscal year
without progress in the proceedings, led the National Government to withdraw it from
consideration. The Government began to analyze the possibility of submitting a Project that
restructures national taxes, which are by Law under the responsibility of the National Direction
of Taxes and Customs.

                                             Table 11

CONCEPT / YEARS                          2000      2001       2002       2003  2004


GENERAL RATE                             16%       16%        16%        16%   16%
EFFECTIVE COLLECTION/ GDP                4.8%      5.3%       5.4%       5.7%  6.1%
RATE OF EVASION                          29.5%     27.6%      26.4%      25.3% 24.1%
COVERAGE OF TAXABLE BASE                 42.5%     45.8%      45.8%      47.9% 52.2%
PRODUCTIVITY OF THE VAT                  0.30%     0.33%      0.34%      0.36% 0.38%


The modifications introduced in the matter of the national taxes by Laws 788 of 2002 and 863
of 2003 have been of vital importance not only for the control of the obligations on the part of
the contributors, even making procedures before the DIAN easier, but also in relation to the
fight against tax evasion, causing a significant increase in tax collections.

Concretely, the VAT base was expanded, and in 2004 it covered goods and services
equivalent to 52.2% of GDP, year in which the exemptions were eliminated completely.

    7. Budget Reform

Policy objective : Convert the budget into a more effective tool for sound fiscal policy and
service delivery improvement.

The objective of the Reforms to the Colombian Budgetary System is to have a public budget
that induces fiscal discipline to guarantee debt sustainability, while enabling a proper
focalization of expenditures and its efficient execution, with the ultimate goal of improving
social welfare, which coincides with the objective of this component.

The Presidential Message that accompanied the 2006 budget bill "budget to consolidate
confidence, second stage", includes the functional classification of the budget, an analysis of
debt sustainability, budgetary execution, a report of tax exemptions, an estimation of
contingent liabilities, sensitivity of the budget to macroeconomic assumptions, conversion



                                               - 56 -

between the budget and the financial plan and a chapter with different ways of presenting the
budget figures: by functional classification, by economic classification, and by the three axes of
the Uribe administration. It is hoped this will give greater transparency to the numbers.

Additionally, a study of the inflexibilities of the budget was begun, it is hoped that the
programming of budget 2006 is done on-line, via Internet, and at the moment, the section on
the Budget in the webpage of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit is an instrument for the
information campaign, being updated being and with information that allows civil society to
access all relevant budgetary information.

Now that the "Dialogue on the Economic Constitution between Lawyers and Economists" has
been carried out, the memoirs of the proceedings are being edited for their publication, and to
open a path to interconnect the dynamics between the laws, their constitutionality, and the
economic context.

No additions to the National Budget will be made this year. This has been made possible by a
good initial programming, fiscal discipline and timely coordination with those responsible for
ordering expenditures, all of which entails greater transparency and optimization of budgetary
principles. Budgetary arrears are reduced when the budget is not increased.

For the fulfill achievement of the objective, the approval by Congress of the amendments to the
Organic Statute of the Budget was necessary. Nevertheless, the bill 194 was "archived" this
past May 31 in the Chamber of Representatives, without having made it to the Senate. Of the 4
required debates, only one was approved despite being in Congress from 16 December 2003
to 31 May 2005.

Aware of the need to reform the budget system and to partly offset the non-approval of the bill,
the National Government is elaborating a draft Regulatory Decree. The draft Decree is being
subject to a Legal review inside the Ministry of Finance, pending comments from other
departments of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, DNP, State-owned Industrial and
Commercial Companies, and the Legal Office of the Presidency of the Republic.

        8. Overall Fiscal Commitment

Policy Objective : The macroeconomic framework of the Republic of Colombia is consistent
with the objectives of the program.

The measures adopted under this component allowed an adequate adjustment of public
finances. Having met the objectives, the process of fiscal adjustment was consolidated and
the credibility of the Government to offer a stable and recovering economy, which has had
repercussions in the productive sector, not only increasing the confidence of Colombians, but
also making it more attractive to foreign investors.

The fiscal deficit has decreased in the last years, as shown in Table 12. Current projections
suggest the observed fiscal deficit of the consolidated public sector in 2005 will be 1.6% and
for 2006, around 2% of GDP, demonstrating the commitment of the Government to reach the
objective of healthy public finances.

This led to a good performance of the economy: During the 2003 there was acceleration in the



                                                - 57 -

growth of the economy, which rose from 1.9% in 2002 to 4.1% in 2003. This growth is
consistent with the potential growth of the economy in the long term. On the other hand, the
economic growth in 2004 was of 4.1% and it is hoped that for 2005 the favorable conditions
that occurred both in previous years will continue, contributing to the consolidation of the
growth of internal demand, which combined with the favorable external factors related to
demand and terms of trade, would allow that the economy to grow 4%.

The dynamics of growth have not created excessive pressures in the market of goods or in
external financing. In the case of the market of goods, the inflation in 2004 was 5.5%, down
one percentage point from 2003. Regarding external financing, the deficit of the current
account was 1.1% of GDP during 2004, less than that observed in 2003 (1.5% of GDP). These
factors suggest that the reactivation process can continue in a sustainable way. The reduction
in the NFPS debt net of financial assets, which passed from 54.1% in 2002 to 51% in 2003 and
to 46.6% of GDP in 2004, broke the increasing trend of previous years, which would have been
a serious threat for the solvency of the Government had it not been reversed.

                                                Table 12


                    Como % del PIB


                     Balances por Período                   2002       2003        2004



                  1 Sector Público No Financiero               -3,8       -2,5        -1,4
                        Gobierno Nacional Central             -6,1        -5,0        -5,5
                        Sector Descentralizado                 2,3        2,5          4,1
                        Seguridad Social                       1,2        0,7          1,6
                        Empresas del nivel nacional            0,4        1,2          0,9
                        Empresas del nivel local               0,3         0,2         0,5
                        Regional y Local                       0,4        0,3          1,1
                  2 Balance cuasifiscal del Banrep.            0,8         0,6         0,5
                  3 Balance de Fogafín                         0,3         0,3         0,3
                  4 Costo de la Restructuración Financiera     -0,6       -0,5        -0,4
                  5 Discrepancia Estadistica                   -0,3       -0,6        -0,3


                    SECTOR PUBLICO CONSOLIDADO                 -3,6       -2,7        -1,3

        Fuente: CONFIS



In addition, and with the purpose of reducing one of the key fiscal risks, the Legislative Act 01
of 2005 was approved, which achieved important results:
- It established 25 effective legal minimum wages as maximum amount for a pension beginning
on July 31 2010.
- It eliminated of the exceptional and special pensions regimes, with the exception of the armed
force, beginning on July 31 2010.
-    It eliminated of 14th pension for the new pensioners, with exception of those receive an
pension equal or less than three (3) effective monthly legal minimum wages, if it becomes
effective before July 31 2011.
-     It accelerated the end of the transition regime of Law 100 to July 31 2010, with the



                                                  - 58 -

exception of those workers who are in the regime and have contributed at least 750 weeks, for
whom the current regime would be maintained until 2014.

         9. Fiscal Responsibility

Policy Objective: Reduce fiscal imbalances.

With the purpose of contributing to national development, it became necessary to correct
misalignments in public finances, and the fact that this goal was included in the program
facilitated the work of the Government in this area, launching what still today continues being a
fiscal priority: responsibility.

Law 819 of 2003, condition of the fiscal responsibility component, had a positive and significant
impact on fiscal management as it became the fundamental regulatory framework for the
reduction of imbalances, also allowing the establishment of clear guidelines for the institutions
involved in the country's fiscal management by engaging joint work, accountability to the
Legislature, transparency and the dissemination of fiscal policies and other good practices for
a realistic management of the national budget.

The final result obtained through the implementation of this component fulfilled the initial
purpose: The Fiscal Responsibility Law established the obligation to establish fiscal targets
linked to debt sustainability and the primary balance of the Non Financial Public Sector, and to
present annual reports of fiscal results to Congress through the Medium-Term Fiscal
Framework (MTFF). This report includes the macroeconomic balance of the previous year, the
framework for the current year, the financial plan of the current year, the evaluation of the main
activities of the public sector, an estimation of the cost of tax deductions and exemptions, the
fiscal cost of the laws approved in the previous legislature, the value of contingent liabilities,
the financial plan of the following year, a multi-annual macroeconomic program, the primary
surplus target and a debt sensibility analysis.
The MTFF is widely disseminated and is also published in the website of the Ministry of
Finance and Public Credit for the benefit of all interested parties, including other branches of
Government, civil society or the international community, in addition to Congress, which is the
entity in charge of evaluating it and exerting political control.

In addition, sub-national debt has been reduced: as a percentage of GDP the internal
sub-national debt dropped from 5.5% in 2000 to 4.1% in 2004, and the external debt from
3.5% to 1.9%.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                               - 59 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                                                      FIAL III Program Indicators
Component                              Indicator                                                       Latest Estimate
            Value of goods and services covered by the VAT base as a          The VAT base was expanded from 51% of GDP in 2003 to 54.3%
Tax Reform  percentage of GDP                                                 of GDP in 2005
            Exemptions to the income tax                                      All exemptions to the income tax were eliminated in 2004
            Ratio between the base to which withholding at the source for     The implementation of the MUISCA system increased the control
            interest income was applied and the total of Interest income      and flow of information between the Banks and DIAN. A 100%
            Interest income reports                                           value is being reported since 2003.
            Increase in tax revenue from firms previously exempt from the     The elimination of exemptions to income tax and the reduction of

Tax         income tax, as a percentage of potential revenue                  firms reporting thresholds increased collections from 30% to 50%

Adminis-                                                                      end 2004

tration.    DIAN Administrative cost for every COL$l.000 Collected            The administrative cost of DIAN was reduced from COL$10.3 per
                                                                              each COL$1000 collected in 2003, to COL$ 9.3 in 2005
            Increases in tax collection attributable to improvements in the   An analysis undertaken by DIAN's Office of Economic Studies
            tax administration                                                reveals as a result of improvements in tax administration, tax
                                                                              collections as a percentage of GDP increased as follows: 0.1% in
                                                                              2002; 0.2% in 2003; and 0.4% in 2004
            Economic classification of the budget                             The 2004-05 Presidential messages submitted to Congress included
                                                                              economic and functional classifications of the budget
            Improvements in the transparency and accountably of public        Budget execution is published and permanently updated on the
            expenditures via the availability of information on the public    MHCP website
Budget      sector budget through the MHCP website
Reform      Reduction in budgetary rigidities through the Organic Budget      The new Organic Budget Code was rejected by Congress. Rigidities
            Code. The MHPC has the authority to control expenditure           werenot substantially reduced
            aggregates
            Increased flexibility in the budget (2006 target: 0 51; 2009      No substantial increase in flexibility was observed
            target, 0.88)
            Medium Term Fiscal Framework (MTFF)                               The MTFF mandated by the Fiscal Responsibility Law includes
                                                                              reports on 2004 fiscal outcomes that show whether targets have
Fiscal                                                                        been achieved, as well as a list of the fiscal costs of all tax measures
Responsi-                                                                     approved in 2004. The 2006 financial plan has been presented,
bility                                                                        including targets and forecasts for 2007.
            Passage of the Fiscal Responsibility Law                          All required by-laws to make the Fiscal Responsibility Law fully
                                                                              operational have been published.
Incentives  Variance of the cost per student enrolled                         The Ministry of Education reported that the global per capita cost of
for                                                                           education totaled COL$ 1.06 million in 2005. According to the
efficiency                                                                    Ministry's projections, these costs are expected to increase to
gains                                                                         COL$1.09 million in 2006 and COL$1.2 million in 2008
            Good practice manuals in the 3 priority subjects (contractual,    1 of 3. The Public Contract Best Practice Manual has been issued
            labor, and non-contractual responsibility subjects) have been     and disseminated on the Public Sector.
Legal
Defense of  prepared, published, and disseminated

the State   Percentage of lawsuits responded to on time                       A 20% value has been reported at the end of 2004
            Percentage of appeals presented on time                           A 20% value has been reported at the end of 2004
            Reduction in payments for penalty interest in cases lost          Not available
            Overall guiding principles areestablished for all procurement     The Inter-sector Commission for Public Contractingis preparing
            with public funds                                                 guidelines and standard bidding documents that could become
                                                                              effective in 2006.
            National-level entitles (central and decentralized) that publish  A total of 162 public entities are publishing their respective
            their procurement documents in the Unified Procurement Portal     procurement processes in the Unified Procurement Portal
            Selection processes based on technical and economic aspects of    The Inter-sector Commission for Public Contractingis preparing
            bids (except consultants or specialized services where            guidelines and standard bidding documents that will address the
            experience must be evaluated)                                     technical and economic aspects of these types of selection
Public                                                                        processes
Procurement Number of frequently used contracts for which standardized

Reform      bidding documents exist
            Entities using the Good Practices Manual in their everyday        No information was available at the time of this report
            procurement
            The profit guarantee in favor of the contractor has been
            eliminated
            Transaction costs of the procurement process have been
            quantified
            Monitoring of variations in transactions costs derived from
            ongoing reforms




                                                                 - 60 -

                                        FIAL III Program Indicators ­ Continuation
Component                            Indicator                                                      Latest Estimate
           Reported real estate assets                                     A database providing information on 9,333 buildings is in place. A
                                                                           total of 2,271 of these buildings have been inspected and verified
           Number of entities which have reported full information on real 50 out of 124 public entities at national level are actually reporting

Asset      estate assets                                                   its assets

Management Institutional framework has been reformed                       The legal and institutional frameworks are being analyzed and a
                                                                           number of proposals for their improvement are currently being
                                                                           prepared
           Revenues and savings over the 4-year period reach COL$175       To March 2005 savings were reported to total COL$ 76,900 million
           billion
           Percentage of the investment budget subject to management       As of October 2004, the percentage of investment budget subject to
           contracts in 2004                                               management contracts was reported at 21%. (No new information is
                                                                           available).
Management Achievement of SENA revenue targets                             Neither of the two entities fully complied with their commitments
Contracts  Achievement of ICBF revenue targets                             and therefore the incentives never materialized. Nonetheless, these
                                                                           entities did inform that the respective contracts helped to improve
                                                                           their planning and internal monitoring and evaluation are in the
                                                                           process of being.
Management Key reform indicators have been published on the web            Yes
of PS      An implementation strategy has been Implemented                 An implementation strategy is in place
Reform




                                                            - 61 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing




          Loan                Amount Programmed     Amount Disbursed
         FIAL I                  US$ 300'000,000    US$ 300'000,000
         FIAL II                 US$ 150'000,000    US$ 150'000,000
         FIAL III                US$ 150'000,000    US$ 100'000,000
         FIAL IV                 US$ 300'000,000     Not Executed




                                        - 62 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 63 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                       No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                           (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year     Count              Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               10/15/2004                           Includes 25 consultants               S               S
                                                    interventions and 27 staff
                                                    interventions


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               11/9/2004                            Includes 1 consultant and 2           S               S
                                                    staff interventions
               2/18/2005

 Supervision
               4/26/2005                            Includes 5 consultants                S               S
                                                    interventions and 13 staff
                                                    interventions


 ICR
                                                     Includes 3 consultants               S               S
                                                     interventions

Interventions for the three loans

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   86.48                           454.03
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                  18.46                            63.67
  ICR                                                                           24.44
  Total                                      104.94                            542.15
Include staff weeks, and staff and consultants fees for the three loans




                                                    - 64 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 65 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 66 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Boletin de Coyuntura Fiscal. CONFIS. August 23, 2005
Evaluación de la Defensa Judicial del Estado Colombiano. DNP. July 2005
Evaluación del Programa Empleo en Acción. DNP. October 2004
Evaluación del Programa Red de Apoyo Social. DNP. November 2004
Informe Presidencial al Congreso. 2004
Informe Presidencial al Congreso. 2005
Manual de Buenas Prácticas para la Gestión Contractual Pública. DNP. December 2004
Reporte de Evaluación: Renovación de la Administración Pública. DNP March 2005
Colombia's Economical and Fiscal Sustainability. MHCP. April 2005
Marco Fiscal Mediano Plazo. MHCP. June 2004
Marco Fiscal Mediano Plazo. MHCP. June 2005
Memorias de Hacienda 2004. MHCP
Colombia: Surpassing Expectations. Growth, Pensions and the Fiscal Deficit. MHCP. September 2005
Informe Sobre la Viabilidad Fiscal de los Departamentos. Vigencia 2004. MHCP.
Set of World Bank Documents including: CFAA, CAS, CPAR, PER, ICR issued between 1999 and 2005
Laws and Decrees enacted by the Colombian Government between 2002 and 2005




                                                 - 67 -

- 68 -

