Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1120 
Operation Name 
PROGRAMMATIC FISCAL AND INSTITUTIONAL 
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN III 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (60%);Sub-national 
government administration (20%);Law and justice (10%);General 
education sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P084762 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT 
Environment Assessment 
OD 4.01 applies?  [ ] Yes  [x] No 
Date PID Prepared 
October 18, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 8, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 16, 2004 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Colombia is a country of 43 million inhabitants with a long history of sustained economic 
growth.  During the last 40 years, however, investment and growth has been tapered by an 
internal armed struggle and high levels of violence that have made the country one of the most 
unsafe in the hemisphere.  In 1991, a new Constitution was approved which sought to bring 
broad sectors of society into participatory decision-making, strengthened decentralization, and 
placed significant social welfare obligations on the State.  One of the consequences of this new 
framework has been a constant growth in public expenditure to attend the mandates of the 
Constitution, which was not coupled with a structural tax reform and other measures that would 
ensure sustainable public finances. 
 
The deteriorating fiscal situation led the country to sign a Stand-By Agreement with the IMF in 
January 2003.  Since then, the current government has carried out two tax reforms, has enacted a 
Fiscal Responsibility Law, and has attempted constitutional reform to contain the growth of 
expenditures.  In addition, public sector reform measures have been undertaken to contain the 
growth of the bureaucracy and to add value-for-money to public expenditure, including measures 
in procurement reform, asset management, performance incentives, and containment of the 
growth in contingent liabilities.  To support this reform process, the government sought the 
support of the Bank and the IDB through both development policy lending and technical 
assistance.  The Bank put together a program of four single-tranche loans, amounting to a 
notional total of US$900 million, to support measures in tax policy and administration, fiscal 
responsibility, budget reform, asset management, legal defense of the state, procurement reform, 
improvements to the royalty transfer system, and a pilot exercise in performance contracts with 
government agencies. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The specific objectives of the FIAL program are to: (i) increase tax revenue and reduce 
distortions in the tax system; (ii) modernize the tax administration; (iii) promote the development 
Page  2
of a sound fiscal responsibility legal framework; (iv) reduce losses and generate revenues 
through improved asset management; (v) prevent massive losses to the State from judicial 
claims; (vi) improve budget management with modern tools and legal reforms; (vii) develop 
incentives for efficiency gains in sub national entities; (viii) strengthen the public sector 
procurement system; (ix) improve performance through management contracts for agencies; and 
(x) support a coherent and comprehensive reform implementation process. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The proposed operation constitutes the third loan of the FIAL program (FIAL III) for an amount 
of US$150 million in a single tranche.  Each of the loans in the FIAL program has a particular 
thrust within the overall scope of the reform. FIAL I was heavily weighted toward tax policy as 
the initial and most urgent effort toward fiscal sustainability.  FIAL II focused on initiating the 
legal and normative reforms of key elements of public sector reform, including procurement, 
royalty transfers, and fiscal responsibility, and the implementation of management contracts with 
two government agencies and the definition of the budget reform strategy.  The thrust of the third 
FIAL loan proposed in this document is on ongoing adjustments to and results of the tax policy 
framework, actual results of the tax administration efforts, the implementation of the reforms in 
the areas of royalty, asset, and procurement management, and the launching of the legal reforms 
to the budgeting system.  
 
Specifically, the proposed third loan of the program is focused on delivering the following policy 
reforms: (a) submission to Congress of a new tax reform bill expanding the VAT base, reducing 
exemptions and implementing a progressive tax system for pensions; (b) decrease in tax evasion 
below X% and in DIAN administrative costs per peso collected to below X%; (c) submission of 
a
new budget law to Congress, complementary to the Fiscal Responsibility Law; (d) 
improvements in royalty allocations through the restructuring of the National Royalty 
Commission; (d) implementation of the legal defense of the State policy; (e) establishment of 
regulatory bodies for both procurement and asset management; (f) compliance with the pilot 
management contracts with ICBF and SENA; and (g) further progress in the monitoring system 
for the public sector reform process 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
There is one issue regarding the tax reform supported by the program that needs to be addressed.  
Law 
788
eliminated the capital gains (or “occasional gains”) tax exemption for individuals 
involuntarily selling their property to the State for public works (through eminent domain), 
creating a conflict with the Bank’s policy on involuntary resettlement that mandates fair net 
compensation to the seller.  Through the elimination of this tax exemption, the seller now faces a 
net patrimonial loss.   
The Bank is working closely with the government, through the Ministry of Housing and 
Environment, on a broad strategy to address the issue of resettlement, including the prevention of 
net wealth loss to the displaced.  
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
200 
Page  3
DEVELOPMENT 
 Total 
200 
 
Page  4
6. Contact point 
Contact: Mario F
rancisco Sanginés 
Title: Senior Public Sector Specialist 
Tel: (+571) 326-3600 
Fax:  (+571) 326-3480 
Email: msangines@worldbank.org 
Location: Bogotá, Colombia (IBRD)
 
