Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20234-BUL
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
PROPOSED ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EUROI5.30 MILLION
(US$14.39 EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
FOR AN
EDUCATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
August 7, 2000
Human Development Sector Unit
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective August 7, 2000)
Currency Unit = Lev
Lev 1.00 = US$ 0.4638
US$ 1.00 = 2.1561 Lev
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL    Adaptable Program Loan                NS    National Shopping
APN    Annual Procurement Notice             OSF   Open Society Foundation
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy            P1    Phase One
CC     Curriculum Council                    P2    Phase Two
CTMS  Competitive Teaching and Management   PAD   Project Appraisal Document
System
ECA    Europe and Central Asia               PCU   Project Coordination Unit
EMIS  Education Management Information       PHRD Population and Human Resources
System                                      Development (Japanese Grant)
EQ     Equipment                             PIP   Project Implementation Plan
EU     European Union                        PMR  Project Management Report
FMSE  Financial Management of School         PVQ   Price-Volume-Quality [contracts]
Education                            QCBS Quality and Cost-Based Selection
GDP   Gross Domestic Product                 RAC  Resource Allocation Committee
HE     Higher Education                      RI    Regional Inspectorates
HEMIS Higher Education Management            SA    Social Assessment
Information System
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and SCQ   Selection under Consultant Qualification
Development
ICB    International Competitive Bidding     SFB   Selection under Fixed Budget
ICR    Implementation Completion Report      SIL   Sector Investment Loan
IDA    International Development Association    SPPO  School Place Planning & Optimization
System
IFC    International Finance Corporation     TA    Technical Assistance
IT     Information Technology                TOR   Terms of Reference
MAT   Material                               VAT  Value Added Tax
MES   Ministry of Education and Science      VET  Vocational Education & Training
MOF   Ministry of Finance                    WG   Working Group
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:   Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Director:    Annette Dixon
Task Team Leader:   Ernesto P. Cuadra



BULGARIA
EDUCATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                  Page
1. Pirogram purpose and program phasing                                               3
2. Project development objective                                                       3
3. Key performance indicators                                                          4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     4
2. M:ain sector issues and Government strategy                                         4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  9
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                  11
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                13
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      14
3. Benefits and target population                                                     15
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      15
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          19
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         20
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           22
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   23
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        23
E. Summiary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          23
2. Financial                                                                          25
3. Technical                                                                          25
4. Institutional                                                                      26
5. Social                                                                             26
6. Environmental                                                                      27
7. Participatory Approach                                                             27
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    28
2. Critical risks                                                                     28
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     29



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           29
2. OtherConditions of Disbursement                                                    29
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         30
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        30
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         31
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            48
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        53
Annex 4: Economic Analysis                                                              54
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              65
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      66
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    78
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  80
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 81
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           83
Annex 11: Financial Management                                                          85
Annex 12: Letter of Sector Policy                                                       88
Annex 13: Institutional Analysis and Implementation Responsibilities                   101
Annex 14: Competitive Teaching and Management System for Higher Education               104
MAP(S)
Republic of Bulgaria - IBRD 26532R



BULGARIA
Education Modemization Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSHD
Date: July 26, 2000                                Team Leader: Emesto P. Cuadra
Country Manager/Director: Andrew N. Vorkink        Sector Manager/Director: Annette Dixon
Project ID: P055158                                Sector(s): EY -Other Education
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
Estimated
APL            -Indicative Financing Plan.        Implementation Period           Borrower
._______                     __________         (Bank   FY)
IBRD            Others       Total    Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m       US$ m         Date        Date
APL 1        14.39    78.1     4.04       18.43     09/05/2000   03/31/2004 Govemnment of Bulgaria
Loan/
Credit                                         ____________
APL 2        38.00    76.0    12.00       50.00     07/01/2003   12/31/2006 Goverment of Bulgaria
Loan/
C redit  I _ _ _ _                                                      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
APL 3        10.00    66.7     5.00       15.00     07/01/2006   12/31/2009 Government of Bulgaria
Loan/
Credit Loan  C rO aG aeO                                            (c
APL 4
Loan/
C redit  _ _ _ _ _      _ _ _ _ _                                       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
,Total       62.39   1     1_   21.04  1  83.43     __ _  _ _ _  __ _ _  _   __  _ _ _ _  __ _ _  _ _
Project Finaincing Data
Z Loan          El Credit       El Grant       rLi Guarantee    El Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $14.39
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                                 Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75 %                                   %
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financig Plan:     Source                                     Local         Foroign         Total
GOVERNMENT                                                       4.04            0.00          4.04
IBRD                                                             7.86            6.53         14.39
Total:                                                          11.89            6.53         18.43
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA
|Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND SCIENCE



Address: 2A Kniaz Dondoukov Blvd, 1000 Sofia, Bulgaria
Contact Person: Alexandra Ivanova
Tel: (359-2)981-3663               Fax: (359-2)981-3663               Email:
A.Ivanova(minedu.govm.bg
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
Annual     2.9          5.5          6.0
Cumulative     2.9          8.4        14.4
Project implementation period: 3 years.
Expected effectiveness date: 12/01/2000  Expected closing date:  03/31/2004
MS APL PAD F 
-2 -



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. I'rogram purpose and program phasing:
The purpose of this program is to improve overall resource management and quality of teaching and
leamning in Bulgarian general (primary and secondary) and higher education institutions, while continuing
to mLaintain the already high levels of access and to improve equity in higher education (HE).
To achieve this purpose, the program would support a plan of activities that will be implemented in three
phases over a period of nine years. The first phase will have a duration of three years and will concentrate
on changing the institutions (norms and regulations); establishing the structures (directorates, centers,
boards, steering committees, independent institutes); developing the technical capacity (management
information system, methodology for optimization of the network of schools and HE institutions, and
student assessment); and setting the foundations required for: (i) successfully introducing new resource
allocation mechanisms, and new standards-based curriculum, and programs of study; (ii) changing
management practices; (iii) changing teaching approaches; (iv) establishing a demand-driven teacher
in-service training systems; (v) establishing a new system of education monitoring and evaluation; and (vi)
establishing a new student loan and stipend system.
The second phase will have a duration of three years. It will consist of activities aimed at supporting the
implementation of the new standards, improving teaching and learning conditions in education institutions,
improving resource management in education institutions, establishing a new system of resource allocation
in E[E, and facilitating equal access to HE institutions. During this phase the program will finance
interventions aimed at improving; (i) professional skills of staff working in the education sector; (ii)
provision of modem education materials and equipment; (iii) planning, monitoring and evaluation capacity
of the education system; (iv) resource allocation system in HE; (v) management of resources in HE
education; and (vi) capacity of the HE system to introduce student fees while maintaining the current levels
of access.
The third phase will have a duration of three years and will focus on adjusting and consolidating the
changes introduced during the previous two phases and establishing a demand-driven system of in-service
teacher training.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
During phase one, the program seeks to create the conditions for a more efficient use of financial, physical
and human resources, and for enhancing the quality of the teaching force and improving the leaming
processes in primary, secondary and higher education institutions. To achieve these objectives, the project
will: (i) strengthen Ministry of Education and Science (MES) management and technical capacity for
modernizing the sector; (ii) increase MES capacity for introducing the new education standards and
standlards-based curriculum in general education, and for collecting and utilizing education information for
monitoring and decision making both in general and higher education; (iii) provide initial training to
inspectors, school directors and teachers on the newly introduced standards and curriculum; (iv) expand a
pilot program aimed at giving school directors greater discretion on spending decisions in their schools; (v)
develop a methodology to support local efforts to optimize the school network; (vi) reform the allocation
process for resources and seats in higher education; (vii) create a competitive fund for improving teaching,
resource management and internal quality assurance in HE institutions; and (viii) establish a modem
student loan and stipend program for HE. To facilitate project implementation, the project will be
supported by a small project coordination unit (PCU) responsible for providing support to the MES in
areas such as procurement, financial management, project coordination, and communication.
- 3 -



3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The following indicators will be used to measure the achievement of the program objectives. Progress
towards these indicators will be monitored during the implementation of the different phases of the
program. Performance indicators for phase one would function as "triggers" for consideration of World
Bank support for the second phase of the program (see section B.4).
1. MES operates an effective national school place planning system, including a consistent approach
to measuring school capacity and the setting of regular targets for the removal of surplus capacity.
2. Municipalities are active in optimizing the system. No municipality has more than 20 percent
surplus primary school places, 15 percent secondary school places.
3. Delegation of budgets and increased discretion at school level leads to more flexibility and
efficiency in the use of resources indicated by an average increase of 50 percent in the amount of
school budget spent on teaching materials and a decrease of 10 percent in the staff-student ratio.
4. During Phase I, adoption of interactive learning processes and improved access to new teaching
materials leads to at least eighty percent of schools showing year-on-year improvements in teaching
conditions as measured by classroom observations.
5. During Phase II and III, new national framework for inspection and information from a new
education management system (EMIS) provide comparative data to support target setting for
improved pupil performance at national local and school levels.
6. At least twenty five percent of HE institutions are offering joint services and programs through
consolidation and/or merging.
7. Curriculum in participating HE institutions is revamped with greater emphasis on meeting labor
force and societal needs.
8. The number of young academic staff in HE institutions having post-graduate degrees has increased
by 20 percent.
9. At least twenty five percent of students enrolled in HE institutions are able to borrow to pay all or
a significant portion of their tuition fees.
10. Sixty percent of HE institutions have established internal quality assurance systems.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17655              Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/28/98
The Bank Group's assistance strategy for Bulgaria set four priorities for support, consistent with the
country's development needs and the Government's priorities. The first three priorities are: promoting
structural reform and private sector development; strengthening and rationalizing the role of the state; and
protecting and enhancing the environment. The fourth key priority is to directly fight poverty and develop
human capital. Within this, the Bank has already been providing active assistance to improvements in
social protection (partly through a Social Protection Adjustment Loan), and to improvements in Health care
(through two investinent projects). The CAS also anticipated Bank-supported investments in education to
arrest the deterioration in education quality, increase the efficiency of resource allocation and improve the
equity of the education system.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background/General description.
Education in Bulgaria is compulsory for children between ages 7 and 16. Primary education consists of
Grades I-IV and schools admit children at the ages of 6 or 7. There is some repetition in the system but
- 4 -



norrnally students cover this cycle in four years. There is no formal test at the end of grade four. Middle
schools provide a further four years of schooling in Grades V-VIII. In most cases Grades I-VIII are
provided in a single school called basic school. In larger communities, general schools with Grades I-XI are
common. Secondary schools are of four main types: (i) the gymnasium offers a formal academic education
for ifour years in Grades IX-XII; (ii) specialist high schools differ from the gymnasium in that they offer
education in specialized subjects in areas such as foreign language, humanities or the sciences. These
schools are highly selective and select their students at the end of grade VII by competition. The period of
study at these schools is one year longer because students are asked to spend one extra year between grade
VII and VIII studying the specialized subjects; (iii) technical and art schools, have the same core
curriculum as the gymnasium but are supplemented by study and training in a vocational area; and (iv)
vocational schools offer two or three year courses leading to a qualification at basic craft level. In addition
to these mainstream schools, there are special schools catering to the needs of students with special needs.
These schools are often located in remote villages and are poorly staffed and resourced.
Provision of finance and hiring of teachers and non-teacher staff for most schools is largely the
responsibility of approximately 260 municipal governments which get a subvention from the central
Government to cover these expenses. Although the subvention formula allows municipalities to allocate
funds in line with their individual priorities, the actual discretion of local governments is limited by tight
national guidelines related to class-size and teacher-per-class requirements. These guidelines are enforced
by 28 deconcentrated County Inspectorates responsible to the MES. Another limitation faced by local
authorities is that, although they are usually represented on selection committees, school directors are
formnally appointed and employed by the MES. All these regulations limit the ability of local education
officials and school directors to make expenditure decisions in accordance with local needs, preferences and
abilities to economize.
During the past decade, education has declined from 1 1-13 percent of total government expenditures in the
early 1990s, to 9-10 percent in the last two years. It has also suffered a decline as percentage of the GDP
from about 5-6 percent early in the decade to 3-4 percent in recent years. This decline has had a significant
impact on teacher salaries, which represent by far the largest category of expenditures (70 percent), school
maintenance and teaching materials.
Access to education. Gross enrollment rates in primary schools of 102 percent indicates that access is not
a problem, however low gross enrollment in middle (87 percent) and secondary (68 percent) schools are
wornisome. An increasing number of dropouts is perceived as a major problem for secondary education.
High unemployment and the perception that secondary education studies are irrelevant are said to be the
reasons behind the high drop out rate. However, little is known about the causes of this decline in school
attendance after primary education. More precise measurement of access using net enrollment rates and
in-depth studies of the causes of attrition need to be conducted in order to determine why attendance is so
far below the compulsory level of age 16.
Issues
Improving quality of teaching and learning in primary and secondary schools. The current curriculum
is well developed along discrete subject lines and is very demanding in terms of the volume and level of
knovvledge imparted. There is, however, a consensus among educators and Ministry officials that there is a
need for a reduction in content, for the introduction of practical elements in school work, and for a change
in teaching styles. Currently, teaching is based on a teacher-centered methodology focused on imparting
knowledge with very litle attention to problem solving, encouragement of discussion, disagreement and
debate, and promotion of research and independent work. The curriculum development process is
- 5 -



dominated by subject content experts running the risk of developing a curriculum that leaves out important
elements in the emotional, moral and spiritual development of students. In practice, there is relatively little
coordination across subjects. On the practical side, schools are not structured in a way to facilitate
co-operative approaches to planning and implementing the curriculum. At a systemic level, MES does not
monitor the implementation of the curriculum and has no formal mechanisms to assess whether pupils are
learning what is being taught, whether they have leamed well what was taught previously, and the extent to
which students are reaching the intended standards.
Pre-service teacher training produces quantitatively a more than adequate supply of teachers for the
system. At all levels, teachers are in possession of pre-service qualifications. Although the str(ictural
format of pre-service training appears to be basically sound, the qualitative content of that training is more
problematic, since it is based on highly abstract and outdated psychology and pedagogical theories and
practices, with very little emphasis on hands-on classroom practices and mentoring. Official in-service
training aimed at enhancing teachers qualifications and pay is currently provided almost exclusively by
three in-service teacher-training institutes, which have the monopoly for issuing certificates that are
recognized as valid teachers' career development activities. Although the range of training offered by these
institutions is agreed annually with the MES, the Ministry has no instruments at its disposal to help monitor
either the quality or the final activities and curricula of courses offered by the institutes. Most courses are
institution-based and not school-based, and are not organized to support curriculum changes or to address
the needs of teachers to renew and extend their skills and understandings. Funding for the institutes is
provided through the MES budget, based on historical patterns as well as discussions of the proposals
presented by each institution. The final offering of training courses responds more to the current capacity of
the three institutes than to the demand of schools or local authorities, including inspectors. The in-service
institutes have recently been placed under the jurisdiction of institutions of higher education, and therefore,
revisions proposed for the operation of these institutes may have implications for the overall system of
higher education.
Improving overall resource management in primary and secondary schools. School directors have no
freedom to modify the curriculum and teaching methods, and lack control over budget spending. This
situation makes it extremely difficult to introduce changes at the school level so they can better respond to
local circumstances. In March 1998, the Government, with the support of PHARE, initiated a pilot
program, Financial Management of School Education (FMSE), to introduce delegated budgets to 100
schools in four municipalities. Through this program, participating schools receive lump-sum budgets
based mainly on the number of students, and directors are given greater discretion in spending decisions. A
preliminary evaluation of the program showed that participating schools have achieved greater community
involvement and are using resources more efficiently by saving on current expenditures such as electric,
water and heating bills. These changes have allowed school directors to introduce innovations in school
management as well as in teaching activities. So far, the evaluation of the program has only covered the
monitoring of inputs. As schools become self-managing, evaluation of effectiveness would need to be
judged by educational outcomes. The pilot program was extended in March 1999 for six months to provide
training for school directors in 20 additional municipalities.
Education efficiency; school network. Since the present school network was established in the 1960s, the
number of students in Bulgarian schools has declined by almost half. In 1998, the school age population
(ages 7-17) was 18 percent below that of 1989. The number of schools and classes, however, has not been
reduced in line with declining enrollments. This has been reinforced by a rigid system of regulations
(standards) governing class sizes, staff teaching hours, and teaching practices that have encouraged a low
number of teaching hours per teacher and small class size. The number of teachers has remained the same
during this period, leading to a very generous average pupil-teacher ratio which in primary school is equal
-6 -



to 11.2 and an average class size of 21. As a consequence, an increased proportion of scarce resources is
now devoted to salaries at the expense of maintenance of school buildings and educational materials. Over
the last 15 years, several municipalities have experienced declines in first-grade cohorts of roughly 40-65
percent. There is considerable scope for improving efficiency in the allocation of school resources at the
municipal level, but since municipalities and individual catchment areas will not experience the same rate
of decline in their school age populations, policy changes will affect them differently. Therefore, school
planning and resource mobilization needs to be carried out at the school and municipality level. One action
taken by education authorities has been the closure of schools, especially in small villages, but these
decisions have not been made with the speed and scope required. Most municipalities so far have been
reluctant to come forward with optimization proposals because of lack of incentives, concerns of the impact
of school closure on employment, and strong cultural attachment to the school as the center of village life.
Inevitably, school closures will lead to staff reduction and, consequently, to increased unemployment, often
in remote areas where the creation of new jobs is slow and few alternative jobs are available.
Education efficiency; class-size and teacher ratios. Two main sources of inefficiency in Bulgarian
education are low class-size and generous teacher-class ratios. The national average class size varies
between 21 to 23 at different education levels. This figure is not only below the national statutory
maximum (22-26) but is also low as compared to observed international standards. It has been estimated
that an increase of 20 percent in class-size could free up almost 20 percent of total costs. Another source
of inefficiency is the high teacher-class ratios in middle and secondary schools, which are the combined
result of national mandated norms with respect to teacher-class ratios and teaching-hours regulations.
These regulations, together with the rapid demographic decline, the strong desire not to increase
un-employment during economic decline, the large number of small rural schools help explain why most
schcols in Bulgaria have a student-teacher ratio below 20, and a large majority of middle and secondary
schools show a ratio below 15 students per teacher.
Improving quality of teaching and learning in HE. During the past decade, higher education has
experienced two fundamental transformations. Universities have gained considerable autonomy while at
the same time their enrollments have increased more than twice, transforming HE from an elite into a mass
system in less than a decade. These transformations, however, have not been accompanied either by the
adoption of a long-term policy framework, or by a modernization of management at the level of the
institutions and the introduction of a dynamic and competitive system of resource allocations. As a
consequence, Bulgaria still has a proliferation of highly specialized higher education institutions (there are
86 HE institutions, amounting to one institution per 100,000 inhabitants) with very weak internal
governance structures, with low quality teaching and research, with an aging academic staff, with few
incentives for staff renewal via re-training and hiring of young academics, and with deteriorating physical
facilities, libraries, equipment and laboratories.
The increase in higher education enrollment has primarily been a product of an expansion of fee-paying and
part time students, which has more than doubled between 1991 and 1997. In 1991 the proportion of state
subsidized students represented almost 90 percent, while in 1997 it only reached a level of 50 percent with
the rest being fee-paying students. Part-time students represented 25 percent of the total number of
students in 1991, while in 1997 they represented 35 percent. Public expenditure per student in higher
education has experienced a continuous deterioration, and it is relatively low as compared to similar
countries (the ratio of unit cost to per capita GDP was 22 percent in 1998 compared with 73 percent for
Hungary, 44 percent for Costa Rica; 40 percent for Romania).
Research and teaching. The higher education system maintains from its past the divorce between research
and teaching and between universities and science academies. Most research institutes operate under the
- 7-



umbrella of the Academy of Science and only a few operate as research centers within universities. In both
cases these institutions are underfunded and operate in relative isolation with respect to HE teaching. In a
parallel situation, the three in-service institutes that have traditionally operated separately from the
institutions of HE and are now operating under the auspices of universities, also make a clear distinct
division between research and practice in the field of education which is not something commonly found in
other European countries.
Improving overall resource management in Higher Education institutions. The Government strategy
for HE has included two main components. One is to modify the system of tuition so all students will be
required to pay fees not to exceed 30 percent of the cost per students. This policy, however, has been
designed in such a way in the medium term that it is not expected to increase total fee revenue over the
current level because students who presently pay "full cost" will find their fees reduced in the new fee
structure. The other changes consist of sharing of responsibility for allocation resources between the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the MES, whereby MES submits the proposals for resource allocation to
MOF. The main HE funding mechanism will be changed from one based on historical patterns to one
based on a normative cost formula.
In terms of student aid and loans, Bulgaria has a system of student stipends designed both to support high
merit students and also to help students who demonstrate financial need by paying a portion of their living
costs. Budget restrictions have reduced over time the proportion of students receiving stipends. There is
also a small student loan program to help students paying tuition fees, but this program has been largely
ineffectual.
Since 1989 the allocation of resources and seats in HE has been split between the MOF and MES and there
has been very little coordination between the institutions. The process of allocation of resources does not
typically take into account labor force needs and other education-based criteria, and the process of
allocation of seats typically does not take into account issues of efficiency and effectiveness. Since both
allocation processes have been based primarily on historical patterns they have retained inequities and
inefficiencies existing in the system before the changes introduced in the 1 990s.
Additionally, one of the main problems that policy makers confront is the lack of a modern system of
monitoring and information. Even the most basic information is scattered, outdated, of poor quality and
difficult to obtain. In the absence of a transparent system of information policy makers, government
officials tend to operate through detailed regulations, creating a vicious circle of lack of innovation and risk
taking, lack of transparency, lack of public confidence and trust, lost of autonomy, and increased
dependency from the state.
-8 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector Issue          Strategic Choices
Need to update        The transition of Bulgaria into a more global market economy and the changes
curriculum content    that this implies, calls for a closer look at the goals of the education system and
and performance       a revision of the standards for education to ensure quality and relevance to the
standards for         needs of future generations of Bulgarians. The project will help MES improve
education.            quality and relevance of education by supporting the introduction of new
standards and curriculum in primary and secondary schools in Bulgaria. It will
also strengthen the policy function of the General Education Directorate by
shedding its operational tasks, and will support the creation of a Curriculum
Council which will operate as an advisory body to the Minister for the
implementation and monitoring of the new standards and curriculum.
Lack   of   quality   The project will promote the reform of the current in-service teacher training
in-service    teacher  system and the establishment of a demand driven system that responds to the
training.             needs of schools and teachers for skill development and improved teaching
methods. This will complement changes in school curriculum and standards.
Lack of reliable      To measure student learning outcomes, a systematic and reliable national
mechanism for         assessment system will be established starting with a Grade 12 school leaving
systematically        exam (matura), and then Grades 4 and 8. Currently, the Bulgarian assessment
assessing students    system lacks the capacity to issue a national standard exam that can ensure
learning outcomes.    tests are administered fairly, grades are assigned objectively or that items on the
examinations are able to capture the aims of the curriculum.
Education             The project will support the Government in its effort to re-focus the role and
Inspectorate functions   functions of the Inspectorate to make them more supportive of the changes in
are weak and          primary and secondary level education that would be taking place at the school
ineffective.          level.
School directors have  The project will encourage flexibility and innovation at the school level, and
no control over the  will support a more effective use of resources in schools through a wider
school  budget  and  introduction of Delegated Budgets.
lackc  freedom   to
modify the curriculum
and teaching method.
-9-



Municipalities have   The project will promote a more efficient allocation of education resources at
not adjusted school   the local level through a program that seeks to strengthen MES's technical
network in response to  capacity to provide support to local government for the design and
decline in student    implementation of school network optimization plans.
enrollment. There is a
need to improve
efficiency in resource
allocation at the local
level.
MES    has   weak   The project will strengthen MES's policy making and monitoring capacity
capacity  to  conduct  through support of applied research on the impact of the new curricula, the
policy      analysis,  introduction of efficiency improvement initiatives and other reform initiatives,
prepare  long  term   and by developing MES  capacity to measure systematically academic
plans and to monitor  performance of students and to collect and analyze education statistics on a
the reform.           regular basis.
Inefficient system for   The project will encourage improvement in resource allocation and management
resource allocation   by linking the process of allocation of seats and resources, by using a
and utilization in    policy-based criteria for the allocation of resources in higher education.
higher education.
Lack of incentives and   The project will support the improvement of teaching and learning in higher
resources for         education institutions through the promotion of curriculum reforms, integration
improving teaching    of teaching and research, strengthening the recently established quality
and management        assurance processes, and raising the quality of academic staff by promoting
within and across     early retirement of current staff and hiring younger staff, and by providing new
higher                training opportunities to young academic staff. This will be achieved through
education institutions.  the establishment of a competitive fund to help institutions improve teaching
and equipment, and to support the creation of an internal quality assurance and
professional management structures at each institution.
Lack  of system  to  The project aims to support the Government in retaining the already high
support         the   accessibility to higher education institutions through the establishment of a
introduction     of  student loan program to help students pay tuition fees and to restructure the
cost-recovery  at the   existing student stipend system.
higher education level.
- 1 0 -



4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
As noted above, the program has three phases. A first phase is designed to create the institutional
conditions, organizational structures and interventions or projects required to implement and sustain the
changes envisioned by the program. A second phase has been designed to begin the implementation of the
projects and interventions prepared during phase one and to prepare the institutional, organizational and
technical conditions for introducing further changes in teacher training. And a third phase is designed to
conscilidate the changes promoted during phase two and to further advance the reform of teacher training.
Phase                 Main Activities                         Triggers
Phase I.- Preparation of *  Establishment of Curriculum  Council, *  Curriculum      Council,
institutional and         Curriculum Resource Center, National   Curriculum  Resource Center,
organizational conditions    Assessment Unit, Resource Allocation   National  Assessment  Unit,
and clesign of specific   Committee for Higher Education, Board    Resource        Allocation
interventions.            of   Competitive    Teaching    and   Conmmittee,       Competitive
Management  System   for  Higher   Teaching  and  Management
Education and Student Loan Agency.     System  for Higher Education
Board and Student Loan
Agency fully operational, with
adequate  legislation,   and
properly trained staff, facilities
and equipment.
* Evaluate impact of delegated budget in *  Evaluation   of   delegated
the 24 pilot municipalities.            budget program  in first 24
municipalities       shows
increased flexibility in the use
of resources indicated by an
average increase of 50 percent
in the amount of school
budget spent on teaching
materials and a decrease of 10
percent in the staff-student
ratio.
* Develop curricula and programs of *  Curricula  introduced  in  all
study in grades 1, 2, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11 and   relevant grades in awareness
12                                     sessions held by directors.
*  Commission studies related to effective *  Studies   and   consultation
teaching   methods,  techniques  for   process completed and findings
curriculum  monitoring and classroom    incorporated in the design of
evaluation, and the development of a   teacher training programs, and
demand-driven   in-service   teacher   in  preliminary  plans  for
training system.                       development of demand-driven
in-service  teacher  training
systems.
* Pilot test matura examination.       *  Initial test of assessment of
grade 12 students piloted in
. _____________ _ _____________________________ __  100     schools.
- 11 -



* Design and pilot test the establishment * Pilot EMIS fully operational
of a National Education Management   including the production  of
Information System (EMIS).            standardized reports.
* MES  develop  and  pilot  test  as  Methodology for school place
methodology for school place planning   planning  and  roll forecasts
and roll forecast with municipalities.  designed   and      tested.
Operational plan for Phase II
optimization       activities
approved by MES.
* Conduct awareness-raising training in * School directors, inspectors
new standards for all school directors,   and relevant municipal staff
inspectors and relevant municipality   attend annually a two day
staff.                                training on implementation of
new standards.
* Develop and pilot test a new system and * New  system  for allocating
formula  for  integrating  allocating   resources and seat in HE pilot
resources and seat in HE.             tested successfully.
* Prepare and enact legislation to allow  0 Legislation for the operation
the creation of a student loan system  of new student loan system
including  funding  and  guarantee    enacted.
mechanisms.
* Design and establish a Competitive * HE Competitive Teaching and
Teaching and Management System for   Management   System   for
Higher  Education  for  improving   Higher  Education  is  fully
management and quality of teaching in   operational with at least five
HE.                                   HE institutions implementing
teaching improvement grant
proposals.
Phase II.-            * Implement new curriculum in all grades * New curriculum operating in
Implementation of        including  the  provision  of  new    all subjects and grades, with
interventions and        educational materials and training of    new  instructional materials
programs.               teachers of all grades but 4 and 8.     available in all schools and
grades.
* Prepare implementation plan for the * Detailed implementation plan
establishment of a demand-led system of   developed and approved by
in-service teacher training.          MES.
* Make necessary changes in laws, norms *  .Constraints  removed   for
and  regulations  to  accredit  new   implementation of plan for the
in-service teacher training providers.  establishment of a demand-led
system of in-service teacher
training.
* Modify funding mechanism to finance *  Funding mechanism in place to
teacher training.                     facilitate    demand-driven
system.
* Revise incentive system  for teachers, 0 Revised system in place, ready
including system  for qualification of  for implementation in phase 3.
in-service teacher training.
- 12 -



* HE institutions compete for funds to *  Seventy  percent  of  HE
improve quality of management and   institutions   have  received
teaching processes.                   funding for management and
teaching       improvement
programs    through    the
Competitive  Teaching  and
Management   System   for
Higher Education.
*  Student  Loan  Program  is  made 0  Student loan guarantee system
operational.                          is in place.
* Mainstream the Higher Education MIS. * HE institutions provide reliable
and valid information to MES
on a regular basis.
Phase            III. 0 Implement assessment for grade 8.
Consolidation    and * Design and implement assessment for
expansion.               grade 4.
* Develop test materials for other grades
that can be used by individual schools.
* Implement Delegated Budget in Special
Schools.
* Provide in-service teacher training on
new    methods   and   pedagogical
approaches to support the introduction
of the new curriculum to teachers using
a decentralized demand-led approach.
* Mainstream student loan program.
* HE institutions compete for funding to
improve quality of teaching and
research.
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
As noted above, the program is to improve overall resource management and quality of teaching and
learning in Bulgarian general (primary and secondary) and HE institutions, while continuing to maintain the
already high levels of access and to improve equity in HE. The program has three phases. A first phase is
designed to create the institutional conditions, organizational structures and interventions or projects
required to implement and sustain the changes envisioned by the program. A second phase has been
designed to begin the implementation of the projects and interventions prepared during phase one and to
prepare the institutional, organizational and technical conditions for introducing further changes in teacher
training. And a third phase is designed to consolidate the changes promoted during phase two and to
further advance the reform of teacher training.
The project is to support the first phase of the Borrower's program to modernize its education system which
aims to: (a) improve overall resource management in pre-university and HE; (b) design and pre-pilot of a
new inspection system related to the new curriculum; (c) enhance the quality of teaching and leaming in
- 13-



pre-university and HE institutions; and (d) continue to maintain high levels of access and equal
opportunities to HE. The project components include: (i) improvement of quality of teaching and learning
in general education; (ii) improvement of overall resource management in general education; (iii)
improvement of efficiency and effectiveness in resource allocation to HE institutions; (iv) development of
student loan program and re-design of stipend system; (v) creation of CTMS and improvement of quality of
HE system; and (vi) strengthening MES project management capacity.
Indcae          :        X<E,     EJ jL , AX T      EBank-  % Of
Component      Sector        Costs    ~~~~~~% of    financin  Bnk
I. Teaching and learning in general  Other Education    5.22       28.3       4.02      27.9
education.
II. Resource management in general  Other Education     6.13       33.3       4.79       33.3
education.
III. Resource allocation in HE      Higher Education    0.45        2.4       0.32        2.2
institutions.
IV. Establishment of student loan   Higher Education    0.23         1.2      0.18        1.3
system and reform of the stipends
system.
V. Creation of CTMS and             Higher Education    5.59       30.3       4.42       30.7
strengthening of HE institutions.
VI. Strengthening of MES capacity for  Institutional    0.67         3.6      0.52        3.6
project management.                 Development
0.0                  0.0
0.0                  0.0
0.0                  0.0
0.0                  0.0
______________________________                     ~~ ~~~~0.0            0.0 -
Total Project Costs                    18.29       99.2      14.25      99.0
Front-end fee                     0.14        0.8      0.14        1.0
Total Financing Required                     18.43      100.0     14.39      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
At the school level. The proposed project would support giving school directors greater discretion in
spending decisions in order to get a more efficient use of school resources, encourage flexibility and
innovation in school management and promote greater community involvement in education.
At the Inspectorate level. The introduction of new standards will require consistent support to schools,
and therefore, require new approaches in the inspection process. The project will support changes in the
role of the Inspectorate, including support to schools in the interpretation of student assessment results and
identification of reasons for under-performance as well as promotion of good practices. This will require
the development of new skills among the inspectors.
At the municipal level. The project will support the MES's efforts to promote the optimization of the
- 14 -



school network by encouraging municipalities to develop and implement a program of school closures and
ama;Lgamation to ensure high quality education is delivered in a more cost-effective way. Savings resulting
fromn this program should be retained within the municipality budget to contribute to the improvement of
education quality. This will require wide consultation at the local level to secure consensus on criteria for
viable schools. One consequence of the school optimization efforts will be staff reduction which could lead
to temporary unemployment, especially in remote areas where few alternatives are available. Severance pay
for staff made redundant as the result of school closures should be considered. Also, grants for re-training
redundant teachers could be made available to ameliorate the unemployment impact of this initiative.
On teacher training. The creation of a demand driven system of in-service teacher training would be
promoted by encouraging the development of an industry of local independent training providers capable of
delivering modem and high quality teacher training programs for in-service teachers. To achieve this, MES
would need to establish an appropriate regulatory structure, including accreditation procedures for the
licensing of training providers. It would also be necessary to revise the incentive system for teachers, to
provide for a more objective system of examination and qualification for attained levels, and to provide
additional incentives throughout teachers' careers.
At the HE level. The optimization of the network of HE institutions would be promoted by encouraging
amalgamation of institutions through a competitive fund for improving the quality of teaching and for
management efficiency. The mechanisms for resource and seat allocations would be reformed to make them
more responsive to market needs and to promote competition and more accountability of institutions.
Additionally, the reform of the student loan program and the stipend system would ensure that they both
work in tandem to enhance access to HE.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project will reach the ultimate beneficiaries - primary and secondary school students - by improving
the quality of teaching and enhancing learning opportunities. It will do this by providing first-line benefits
to teachers, school principals, inspectors and MES staff through the enhancement of their knowledge and
skills, and by assisting them in the development and introduction of innovations in teaching and learning
processes at both the classroom and school level.
For iHE, it is expected that the program will benefit students of HE institutions by improving quality of
teaching and enhancing learning opportunities, and by providing financial support to enhance opportunities
to attend HE institutions. The program will also benefit academic staff at HE institutions by providing
them opportunities and incentives to enhance their knowledge and skills, improving their working
conclitions through investments in teaching materials and equipment, laboratories and libraries.
It is also expected that the program will benefit independent training providers by creating an institutional
mechanism to facilitate the operation of a competitive market for in-service training.
Finally, the program will benefit MES staff by enhancing their knowledge and skills, and by improving
their working conditions through access to new technologies and technical resources.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Management
The MES would be responsible for overall implementation of the Project. To coordinate the activities of
the proposed Project, the MES has strengthened the current Project Coordination Unit (PCU) established in
- 15-



1993 to coordinate the technical assistance for implementing the Public Sector Management Loan.
Currently, the PCU is headed by a Project Coordinator, who is accountable to the Secretary General under
the MES. The PCU will consist of the following staff: (i) a director; (ii) one coordinator for HE and one
for general education; (iii) a procurement specialist who should be appointed before negotiations; (iv) an
accountant; (v) a planning specialist; (vi) a communication specialist, and (vii) a bilingual
(Bulgarian/English) secretary. A Project Board, chaired by the Minister of Education and composed of the
Secretary General, the Deputy Minister of Higher Education and the Deputy Minister of General
Education, is being established to guide project implementation and to monitor its progress. The Project
Board will meet at least twice a year to revise and approve the bi-annual progress report presented by the
coordinators of the PCU and to make necessary corrections to project implementation activities.
Project actions will take place both in MES, at the Regional and School levels, and at the level of HE
institutions. Principal participants in the proposed project will be MES staff, the Inspectorates, Regional
and Municipal Officers responsible for education provision, school directors and teachers, HE rectors, HE
academics, and non-governmental organizations willing to participate in the provision of some of the
services to be financed by the project. Direct responsibility for the implementation of the project will rest
with different units within MES which will be supported by the PCU.
The PCU would be responsible for overall project coordination, including coordination of preparation of
annual work programs and project budget, submission of work programs and monitoring reports to the
Project Board, conducting procurement and contract administration according to the World Bank
guidelines; managing financial systems for project expenditures; ensuring that project audits are carried out
on an annual basis; producing annual monitoring and evaluation reports of project activities; preparing
annual procurement plans; publishing annual updates of Annual Procurement Notices (APN); handling
public relations, dialogue, and feedback with MES management and the project stakeholders to ensure
ownership and to promptly resolve problems; ensuring accountability of contractors and consultants, and
liaising with the World Bank and other donors. On May 15 of each year, the PCU will submit to the Bank
the annual monitoring report and the annual procurement plan. These documents will be reviewed jointly
by the Bank and MES on the second half of June of each year. The PCU would also lead, by November
30, 2002, a Phase I review to be conducted jointly between the MES and the Bank to assess progress in
achieving project outcomes and triggers for Phase II and to make recommendations for adjustments as
needed. Upon completion of the project, an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be prepared by
the MES, outlining the project impact and lessons leamed.
Direct responsibility for implementation of project activities will fall on different MES line units and the
MES working groups that have participated in the preparation of the project. They would be responsible
for managing the timely implementation of project activities, including: managing the day-to-day aspects of
project implementation and coordination with stakeholders and monitoring key performance indicators for
both quality and physical outcomes. Management responsibility for each component will be clearly
assigned to MES managers heading organizational units within the Ministry.
To oversee and coordinate the implementation of the HE component of the project, the MES will establish a
Higher Education Steering Committee (HESC) within the State Policy in Higher Education Department.
Rectors of HE institutions, employers, the MES and MOF will be represented at the HESC. The Director
of the State Policy in Higher Education Department will act as the Secretariat of the HESC, while the HE
coordinator of the PCU will be responsible for the day-to-day operation of the HESC. The head of the HE
working groups will report directly to the HESC through the Secretariat. In the case of the implementation
of the resource allocation sub-component, the MES will formally establish a Resource Allocation
Committee (RAC) working group which will operate under the guidance of the HESC and will include staff
- 16 -



from the MES Departments of Finance, Students, State Policy in HE and MOF.
For the implementation of the activities under the Higher Education Competitive Teaching and
Management System (CTMSHE), the MES will establish a special body responsible for managing the
system. The system will be managed by an executive director (ED), appointed by the Minister of
Education. To perform its function, the ED will be supported by a small staff responsible for promoting
the activities of the system, conducting the initial screening of proposals, and for follow-up and evaluation
of grants. Contracts between winning institutions and the MES, and disbursement of funds will be handled
directly by the PCU. In addition to the ED, the CTMSHE governance structure will consist of an
Executive Council (EC), an International Supervising Committee, two advisory committees, one for each
window of the fund, and peer review committees. The Executive Council would consist of four members of
recognized reputation within the academic community and the Deputy Minister of HE who will act as the
EC chairperson. The EC will be responsible for setting the priorities of the system, approving the criteria
for project evaluation, selecting the members of the peer review committees, monitoring progress, and
evaluating the implementation of the activities of the system. To perform its functions the EC will have
quarterly meetings. The International Supervising Committee will consist of seven members, three of
whorn would be international experts. It will meet once a year to provide guidance to the implementation of
the system, to monitor the transparency in the operation of the different activities promoted by the fund and
to make suggestions for new orientations in the operation of the system. The advisory committees would be
established on the basis of the number of components (or windows) of the system. They will meet in
accordance with the schedule for project presentation and evaluation. Their main role is to conduct the
final screening of proposals presented by HE institutions based on evaluation reports prepared by the
respective peer review committees, and the eligibility and priority criteria established by the EC. The peer
review committees will be responsible for evaluating proposals presented by HE institutions based on the
academic and professional merits of each proposal. The members of the peer review committees should be
recognized experts in their field and would be appointed only for the period of evaluation of each contest.
DisbFursements/Project Financial Reporting Requirements.
A financial management assessment was carried out to determine the Government's institutional capacity to
implement the project's financial management system, as prescribed in OP/BP 10.02. A report of the
assessment's findings is included in Annex 11. Key actions needed to bring the activities relating to the
financial management up to an acceptable level include: recruitment of the PCU accountant;
purchase/installation of accounting software capable of producing Project Management Reports (PMRs);
(iii) putting in place an integrated accounting system satisfactory to the Bank; (iv) submission of financial
management manual; and (v) appointment of independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Most of these
activities, described in an agreed time-bound Action Plan, has already been carried out and also verified
during a visit by a financial management specialist in July 2000. The updated Action Plan is presented in
Annex 1 1.
Durin-g appraisal, the format and frequency for the submission of Project Management Reports (PMRs)
was discussed with the identified PCU accountant, who also received a copy each of Project Financial
Management Manual, LACI Handbook, and Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook. It
was agreed that during the initial period when the PCU may not be ready to prepare quarterly PMRs,
disbursements will start using traditional methods, i.e., Statements of Expenditures (SOEs)
reimbursements, direct payment, etc. It was further agreed that, even though the PCU will initially be
using traditional disbursement methods it will, on a parallel basis, also produce PMRs, not necessarily for
replenishment purposes, but for reporting and gaining experience with the new reporting requirements.
- 17 -



Once the PCU has gained experience with the financial management system (FMS) and reporting under
project management reports, and provided that an improved FMS is reviewed and found satisfactory by the
Bank, and with agreement of the Borrower, the Project will move to PMR-based disbursements. Once
converted, the PCU will be responsible for preparing quarterly PMRs, acceptable to the Bank, each of
which will include: (i) a financial report summarizing sources of project financing and project expenditures,
disbursement, and forecasted project expenditures; (ii) reconciliation of the Special Account; (iii) a project
progress report comprising output monitoring and summary of project progress; and (iv) a procurement
management report on status of procurement and contract management.
Auditing arrangements:
The annual audit will be carried out in accordance with acceptable international standards and Bank
guidelines on auditing and financial reporting as outlined in The World Bank Financial Accounting
Reporting and Auditing Handbook and Project Financial Management Manual. The audit report shall be
in a format in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing promulgated by the International
Federation of Accountants (IFAC) and with Bank guidelines. The audit report will include separate
opinions for the project financial statements, the Special Account, SOEs and the PMRs against which
disbursements have been made or are due to be made from the Loan. The Borrower will submit to the
Bank audited financial statements and the audit report within six months following the fiscal year-end. It
was agreed during Negotiations that the auditors should be contracted no later than March 30, 2001.
Flow of Funds/Special Account:
Loan funds will be channeled through a Special Account within the Bulgarian National Bank or a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will
establish, maintain and operate under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account at a
local bank in which loan amount will be transferred. Where necessary, funds will be transferred from the
Special account to the Project account for eligible project activities. The PCU will manage the Special
Account, including preparing Loan withdrawal applications and supporting documentation, replenishment
and reconciliation of the Account. The authorized allocation for this Special Account is proposed to be
Euro $1,000,000.
Financial Management Manual:
A Financial Management Manual (FMM) is presently being prepared by the PCU Accountant and the
Bank is providing all necessary support. The FMM would include: (i) the project's financial management
system with special emphasis on accounting and auditing policies, standards and internal controls; (ii) role
of the financial management systems in project management and implementation; (iii) accounting
arrangements required for project management, the format and content of project financial reporting; and
(iv) the auditing arrangements that will be used during project implementation. It is expected that by
September 30, 2000, a final FMM, satisfactory to the Bank, will be ready.
Time Bound Action Plan:
For strengthening of the financial management system, a time-bound Action Plan was produced during
appraisal and updated during a visit by a financial management specialist (FMS) in July 2000. The FMS
issued a 4-B certificate after confirming that the Bank's minimum financial management requirements were
in place. The updated Action Plan, presented in Annex 11, was discussed and agreed with the relevant
- 18 -



govemment officials, including PCU staff during the above mentioned visit. The PCU Director and
Accountant will be responsible for ensuring adherence to the agreed timetable. Instructions will be sought
from the management of MES, wherever necessary.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Several alternatives associated with improving overall resource management and teaching and learning in
pre-university and higher education were discussed with the Government and with the Quality Enhancement
Review panel in the Bank. The current approach and components were selected as the most appropriate to
achieve the program objectives.
Lending instrument. Sector Investment Loan (SIL) versus Adaptable Program Lending (APL). The APL
approach was selected because it provides the flexibility and long term framework required to address the
challenges of introducing systemic changes in the education sector. Although the MES has already been
introcLuced and the Parliament has enacted several legislative changes that provide the legal support for the
introcluction of those changes, considerable work remains to establish and develop the key institutions and
organ.izations required for the implementation of those changes.  The first phase of the APL will
concentrate on developing those institutions and organizations, and in preparing the specific interventions
contemplated in the framework proposed for the modernization of the sector. The SIL would not allow for
the same degree of flexibility.
Changing teachers behavior and upgrading of skills. Given the weakness of the existing teacher training
institutions in Bulgaria, and the need to involve school directors and inspectors in the training and support
of teachers, the program would begin with a series of activities to raise awareness and provide initial
training for teachers during the first two phases of the project, rather than starting with an ambitious
program of extensive teacher training aimed at changing teachers' behavior. Also, during phase one of the
APL, the program will commission research on removal of obstacles for the operation of a demand-driven
teacher training system with an expanded number of qualified training providers, and will develop a
proposed plan for the new system. During phase two, a detailed plan for the new system will be developed
and implemented, putting in place necessary changes in regulations, funding, licensing of in-service
providers and qualification of teachers for in-service levels. During phase three, the demand-driven system
will be implemented, so that teachers may receive continued training in new teaching methods, with the
active participation of an extended network of training providers.
Inclusion versus exclusion of vocational education and training from the objectives of APLI. Because of
what the EU and other donors are already doing in vocational education in Bulgaria, it was decided to
monitor closely what MES is doing in this area and to make a decision regarding the need to include World
Bank support for the objectives of that reform during phase two and three of the APL, based on the
progress and achievement of on-going initiatives.
Direct investment in teaching, learning and management improvement initiatives at HE institutions. It
was decided that it would be best to provide incentives to encourage each institution to prepare its own
improvement plans and to achieve long term sustainability through co-financing arrangements rather than
providing direct inputs to the institutions. To accomplish this objective, a Competitive Teaching and
Management System (CTMS) will be established to invite HE institutions to compete for funds to improve
their internal management practices, as well as teaching and learning conditions. Those proposals that win
- 19-



will be aligned with governmental policies to encourage institutional consolidation and quality
improvement.
Funding of student loan scheme. Through the reform of the current stipend system, the Government is
committed to and has the capacity to fund a guarantee fund to provide incentives to private banks to fund
student loans. It was decided that the World Bank will finance technical assistance to design the new
student loan and stipend system and to establish an agency responsible for managing the new student loan
program.
Restructuring and improving efficiency of HE network of institutions. Based on the lessons learned from
an unsuccessful previous experience in Bulgaria that attempted to promote the optimization of the existing
network of institutions through the reform of the legal framework, the program is designed to achieve this
objective through changes in the system of financial incentives contained in the allocation procedures.
Consequently, the program seeks to promote optimization of the existing network through the reform of the
system of resource and seat allocation. During phase one of the program, this reform will be designed and
implemented by a Resource Allocation Committee established within MES. Based on the evaluation of this
experience and consultation with relevant stakeholder, a decision will be made whether the long term
sustainability of this reform requires a buffer body outside the control of MES. If that need is justified, a
more independent Finance Council would be established during the second phase of the program.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Sectfor*            ;;su            Proec                    (PR ,,Rat4:r,     > ings
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Ongoing:
Health Sector Restructuring       S             S
Social Insurance                 HS            HS
Administration
Social Protection Adjustment      S             S
Regional Initiatives Fund         S             S
Other development agencies
1. PHARE:                         Upgrading VET; ongoing
-introducing modular type training in
the field of secondary and
post-secondary education in compliance
with the labor market demands;
developing a certification system and
legal framework for vocational
education and training (VET).                                 l __l
- 20 -



2. PHALRE:                         Teacher Career Path; project
-raising the qualifications of vocational completed.
teachers and establishing common
standards for the job description of
vocational teachers; defining initial
indices for assessing the quality of
teachers in accordance to educational
policy and existing legislation.
3. PHARE:                         Foreign Language Training;
-upgrading the foreign language training project completed.
of vocational teachers; setting up a
functioning model for the foreign
language training (English and German)
of vocational teachers; and effecting the
vocational training of teachers and
students.
4. PHARE:                          Development and Management
-establishing the level of the Bulgarian of Science and Technology;
science and technology potential; setting ongoing.
up a National technology center for
information dissemination; developing a
national policy for science and
technology; and creating a Technology
Unit.
5. PHARE:                         School Drop-outs (feasibility
-developing a preventive program for  study); completed.
dropout children and reducing their
numbers through incentives to return to
the school system via various flexible
forms of training;
6. PHARE:                          National Evaluation and
-setting up a system for assessment and Accreditation Agency
accreditation in the field of higher  (feasibility study); completed.
education on international standards;
-international recognition of Bulgarian
.diplomas and qualifications.                         _
- 21 -



7. PHARE:                           Science Park Network
-restoring ties and inter-relations  (feasibility study); completed.
between higher education and private
and public institutions and units that
need research and technology products
in a market environment. Drafting a
model for a science park infrastructure.
8. PHARE:                           National Evaluation and
-setting up an operative, efficient system Accreditation Agency;
for the assessment and institutional  completed.
accreditation of Higher Education
Institutes; building capacity for the
functioning of a National Agency for
assessment and accreditation,
developing the criteria, methods and
procedures; and continuing
pilot projects on assessment and
accreditation within selected fields.
9. PHARE:                           School Drop-Outs; ongoing.
-Developing a system for monitoring,
training and socialization of school
dropouts; setting up centers for teachers
in three regions; building a scheme for
the pilot centers; building an efficient
data base.
10. PHARE:                          Financial Management of
-delegation of budgets to 100 schools   School Education (FMSE);
and units in four pilot municipalities;   Extended to provide basic
-training in school-based management  training in school-based
for school directors, municipality  management for a further 400
staff and inspectors in the pilot areas;  schools in 20 new
-development and installation of school municipalities as the first stage
administration software in pilot schools; of a national extension of
-legislative framework for delegation.   delegated budgets.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons from several PHARE projects and from Bank-financed projects have been incorporated into the
design of this proposed project. The PHARE Project BG 95.06-02: Financial Management of School
Education (FMSE) has produced an interim evaluation that assesses the impact of delegated budgets in
schools taking part in the FMSE project in four municipalities in Bulgaria. Delegation has already led to
efficiency savings, the generation of additional income, and strengthening of management structures at the
school level. A component within the proposed project would support the effort for a national extension of
the delegated budget developed under the PHARE pilot project. (see Section C, sub-component 2.1).
- 22 -



Key lessons from the Argentinean Fund for Enhancement of Education Quality (FOMEC is the Spanish
acronym) indicate that: (i) in order to prepare competitive proposals, HE institutions need to receive
technical assistance in advance; (ii) HE institutions need to enhance both their management capacity to
implemnent projects and the management information system required for monitoring investment and
tracking quality assurance; (iii) the selection criteria for the Competitive Teaching and Management
System for Higher Education should be linked to plans for improvement of productivity and establishment
of modem budget management procedures; (iv) there is a need for stronger articulation of individual project
components and sub-components; and (v) the management of the System needs to have the capacity and be
ready lo cut funding to projects that are not performing.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The proposed program is part of the education strategy of the Bulgarian Government and will contribute to
implementing several changes introduced by MES in the legislative framework of both pre-university and
higher education. At the request of the Bank, the MES has sent a letter of sector strategy to the Bank. For
the preparation of the project, the MES has created several working groups that have been working during
the past year in the design of the different components of the program and on the preparation of an
implementation plan. To carry out these task, the working teams have benefited from external and local
technical assistance financed under a PHRD Grant.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
During project identification and preparation, the Bank has provided MES with expertise and intemational
experience for the consideration of technical and operational altematives related to the design of
interventions aimed at improving quality of teaching and enhancing management in pre-university and
higher education. The Bank's involvement in the education sector in Bulgaria has already encouraged
technical dialogue on subjects that are key to the improvement of the performance of the sector. During
project identification and preparation, the Bank has promoted an increase in dialogue and participatory
approaches for the formulation of a strategy for higher education and the development of a long term vision
for the sector. This has allowed the MES to gain crucial technical knowledge and increase dialogue and
cooper,ltion with key stakeholders in the sector.
Prior to the Bank involvement in the sector, the MES was receiving support from the European Community
through its PHARE program and from the Open Society Foundation (OSF) through the support of small
education projects. PHARE and OSF have significantly reduced their presence and funding to the sector
because, in the case of the European Union, education is not a priority in the process of expansion of
membership, and in the case of OSF, the organization's priorities have been redirected to other countries in
the region. This leaves the Bank as the main international agency supporting the modernization of
education in Bulgaria.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = %  (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
An examination of the additional expenditures, savings and long-term returns of the proposed project
indicates that it is justifiable on economic grounds. This analysis has taken the framework of a traditional
cost-benefit analysis, but recognizes that it is not possible to forecast the labor market effects of these
- 23 -



far-reaching reforms of the educational system. This analysis does not attempt to answer the usual question
asked in investment decisions: what is the expecled rate of return of this investment? Rather, it sets out to
answer the question: if we have a target rate of return of 10 percent, what would be the increase in labor
productivity resulting from the project necessary to achieve it? It should be noted that the lower this
required increase, the better the project.
Current inefficiencies of the system can be attributed to outdated management practices, rigidity of the
norms regulating deployment of teachers and teaching load, and outdated curriculum and teaching
practices. Potential gains can be achieved by modemizing management practices, including the introduction
of more flexible regulations, and by upgrading the curriculum and introducing more student centered
teaching practices. In addition, it is expected that changes in curriculum and teaching practices will
improve labor productivity through improved student learning. Another potential benefit, which is difficult
to quantify, is the potential for improved performance in higher education of the students who have
benefited from the schools reform. The interaction between the reform at the primary and secondary and
that at the tertiary level is a complex matter and no attempt has been made to deal with it during project
preparation.
General education component
Two of the project components -- Delegated Budgets and Optimization of the School Network -- are
expected to lead to cost savings. Based on the results of a pilot project on Delegated Budget financed by
the European Union PHARE program, showing average gains of about US$500 per year per school, a
conservative estimate of the expected gains of the proposed program is of the order of US$1.8 million per
year (see Annex 4, Table 1). An investigation by MES shows that the potential saving from closing
schools that are redundant due to decline in school population is of the order of US$12,000 per school
closed. A conservative estimate of the potential recurrent costs savings from optimizing the school network
would be US$6 million per year (see Annex 4, Table 1). However, in the first years of the program these
costs savings would be offset by severance payments made to redundant staff.
The introduction of new curriculum and testing in grades twelve, eight and four, plus the new program to
upgrade knowledge and skills of school inspectors, directors and teachers will entail additional expenditures
for MES. It is estimated that the introduction of new teaching methods required by the new curriculum will
demand recurrent cost in new materials of about $5 per students, or approximately $5 million per year in
the medium term when the program is completed. The administration of the new test would also involve
additional recurrent costs of $1 million per year, while staff training will demand another million per year.
In order to achieve these long term saving the MES will need to make a total investment of approximately
$69 million during the next nine years. These direct savings would also be complemented by a
once-and-for-all increase in labor productivity resulting from the modernization of the system. Even a
modest increase in productivity of 2.65 percent should produce an internal rate of return for this project of
about ten percent.
The net impact is estimated on the basis of pilots undertaken when the norms were still in place. The
additional savings from delegated budgets and the optimization of the school network in the current
environment are, therefore, likely to be considerably higher. The student-teacher ratio in Bulgaria is
currently 18 and therefore considerable scope for savings exist as Bulgarian schools move towards
international best practice in terms of teacher-student ratios particularly in the context of demographic
change. These savings offer an opportunity to MES to restructure salary payments and, in particular, to
increase teacher salaries in the medium tern in order to retain and attract effective teachers. This strategy
- 24 -



will help to ensure that the overall decline in teacher numbers is managed in such a way as to sustain an
effective teaching force to enhance standards of teaching.
More generally, it will be important that a considerable proportion of the savings be retained by the schools
- or at least by the municipalities - in which they were generated in order to maintain incentives for such
savings.
Higher Education Component
This component of the project is structured so that there is intended to be no long term impact on recurrent
costs aid expenditures other than those directly attributable to the project. The budgets and experiditures
of HEIs as a whole will remain unchanged although a substantial reallocation between them is expected.
This should translate into a more efficient and relevant higher education sector, which in turn should lead to
substantial productivity gains.
Annex 4, table 3 shows the economic costs and benefits estimated for this component. Since there is
intended to be no net impact on recurrent expenditures, the only costs are project costs while the only
benefits are the increased productivity of HE graduates. A once-and-for-all modest increase in labor
productivity of 1 percent for HE graduates will result in the achievement of a target intemal rate of return
for the program of 10 percent.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
AlthouLgh in the medium term the program will reduce net recurrent revenues, in the short term it is
expected that there would be a net increase in recurrent expenditures. In 2002, it is expected that there
would be a net increase in expenditures in the order of US$780,000; in 2003 a net increase in expenditures
of almrost US$3 million; in 2004, a net increase of US$3.8 million. The increase in expenditures is
expected to reach its peak in 2006 at US$4.5 million, thereafter falling to US$2.9 million in 2007, and to
US$2.5 million and US$1.3 million in 2008 and 301,000 in 2009. However, these increases are offset by a
net saving in recurrent expenditures of almost one million per year from 2010 onwards.
3. Technical:
The program has been designed taking into consideration the findings and recommendations obtained from
analytical work conducted both during the preparation of the project as well as studies sponsored by the
European Union through the PHARE program and by the Open Society Foundation (see annex 8 for
specific reference), and from consultation with different stakeholders. It also draws on lessons from best
practice distilled from similar projects supported by the World Bank and other donors in general and higher
education.
During program preparation special attention was given to the analysis of the institutional capacity of MES
to implement the activities described in the program. The local working teams that prepared the program
benefited from technical assistance provided by leading international experts in education and by project
managers of similar education projects, particularly for the design of the Competitive Teaching and
Management System for Higher Education. The operational manual for this system has been designed
taking into consideration the experience of similar systems in Argentina, Chile and Romania.
- 25 -



4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The MES has no experience implementing similar programs. The analysis of the organization capacity of
MES to execute this program
(see Annex 13) revealed that the line units responsible for the direct execution of program activities would
need to be strengthened through additional training in project planning and management and through short
and long term local and foreign technical assistance. Expert committees will be used in those areas where
MES has little experience in implementing reforms such as resource allocation in HE, student loans and the
Competitive Teaching and Management System for Higher Education.
b. Project management:
The project will be implemented by line units within MES. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU') placed
directly under the General Secretary will help coordinate project implementation and will provide support
in areas of procurement, financial management, communications and management training to the MES line
units responsible for implementing the project activities. The PCU Manager will report to a Project Board
chaired by the Minister of Education and composed of the General Secretary, the Deputy Minister of
Higher Education and the Deputy Minister of General Education.
The PCU will consist of the following staff: (i) a director; (ii) one coordinator for higher education and one
for general education; (iii) a procurement specialist; (iv) an accountant; (v) a planning specialist; (vi) a
communication specialist, and (vii) a bilingual (Bulgarian/English) secretary.
The management responsibility for the project as a whole, and for each and every component and
sub-component, will be clearly assigned to managers heading organizational units within the Ministry and
not to working groups and committees. Working groups and committees will continue to perform and
review project-related work, but will not carry management responsibility for whole components and
sub-components. The overall management responsibility for the project will be held by the Ministry's
General Secretary. The management responsibility for all components and sub-components will be held by
specifically designated managers as per the list included in Annex 13.
5. Social:
Program preparation activities have identified three groups whose individual and social characteristics
demand differential treatment: ethnic minorities, students of HE institutions and school teachers. A project
financed consultation process and social assessment will strengthen the capacity of MES to tailor different
program activities to respond to the specific needs and demands of these groups. One of the main
challenges of the program is to build support among HE students for the reform of the financing of HE
institutions. Another important challenge is to get teachers and parents to understand and support the
optimization of the school network and the changes on teaching practices. To face these challenges the
program will use the information collected through the consultation process to prepare and implement an
information and communication strategy, and to involve these groups in the design of some of the
interventions.
A study of the education situation of ethnic minorities in Bulgaria was recently completed as part of project
preparation. The study summarizes the main education problems faced by ethnic minorities in Bulgaria,
documents some projects targeted to ethnic minorities that are currently under implementation and makes
recommendations for addressing the main problems. One area that seems to be of key importance is the
introduction of special teaching methods and teaching materials specially targeted to the needs of these
- 26 -



groups. The initial training and support provided to teachers will begin to address some of these issues. In
phase III it will become possible to address these issues through specially designed and targeted programs
for in-service teacher training.
6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category: C (Not Required)
It is not expected that the program will have any negative impact in the environment since it will only
finance rehabilitation of MES offices required for the operation of the PCU and some of the working
groups, and will not finance rehabilitation or construction of schools.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may.
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Plimary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Participation has been central to program preparation and will continue during program implementation
through a carefully designed process of information sharing, consultation and communication with different
stakeholders. Different types of consultations have taken place during project preparation using different
formats such as ad-hoc meetings, workshops and specialized surveys. Representatives of practically all
direct beneficiaries of the program have been involved. Students teachers, MES staff, HE rectors, school
directors, inspectors, NGOs, associations of ethnic minorities, members of parliament have participated in
this process.
Stakeholder                                  Participation Level
School teachers                              IS/CON
HE professors                                IS/CON
School directors                            IS/CON/COL
HE Rectors                                   IS/CON/COL
Inspectors                                   IS/CON/COL
Pre-university students                      IS/CON
HE Students                                 IS/CON
Teacher Training Institutions                IS/CON/COL
Local Education Authorities                  IS/CON/COL
Parents                                      IS/CON
NGOs                                         IS/COL
Association of Ethnic minorities             IS/CON
Central Government Authorities (MES, Ministry of IS/CON/COL
Finance)
Policy makers and members of Congress        IS/CON
Bankers                                      IS/CON/COL
International donors                         IS/CON/COL
(IS: Information sharing; CON: consultation; COL: Collaboration
b. Other key stakeholders:
Stakeholder                                  Participation Level
Teacher Training Institutes                  IS/CON/COL
Central Government authorities (MES, Ministry of IS/CON/COL
Finance)
- 27 -



Local education authorities                  IS/CON/COL
Parents                                      IS
NGOs                                         IS/COL
Associations of ethnic minorities            IS/CON
Employers and business leaders               IS/CON
Policy makers and members of Parliament      IS/CON
International donors                         IS/CON/COL
(IS: information sharing; CON: consultation; COL: Collaboration)
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The following factors are critical for sustainability of project benefits:
(i) Stability in education sector strategy and sector management.
(ii) Government willingness and capacity to provide system with incentives for improved efficiency
and quality.
(iii) Local Government willingness and capacity to improve efficiency of school network.
(iv) Higher education institutions willingness to improve management efficiency and quality of
teaching and learning.
(v) Private sector willingness to participate in the provision of in-service teacher training and
student loans.
While it is not possible to avoid political changes during project implementation, the use of a participatory
approach during preparation and a well defined strategy for a continuous process of consultation, and for a
permanent process of communication and informnation should help to increase the prospects for a stable
commitment to the objectives of the program and to a stable project management.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
M lRisk                 Risk Ratin            RiskMinimzation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
MES does not have the capacity to reform    M         Agreement reached prior to appraisal on
its internal structure and to create new              education sector strategy letter and agreement on
units required for the implementation of              program to strengthen implementation capacity
the reform.                                           of MES.
MES lacks the capacity to change            M         Continuous consultation with key stakeholders
regulations affecting resource allocation             and communication to the broader public.
mechanisms
Key stakeholders do not accept the          S         Consultation and information strategy.
changes to legislation.
There is not a State Guarantee to continue  H         Continuous dialogue with the Government and
with program activities in Phase II and III           relevant stake-holders.
From Components to Outputs
Weak MES implementation capacity.           S         Strengthen capacity of MES through technical
assistance and participation of private sector in
the provision of some key services.
-28 -



Sufficient incentives lacking to encourage  M          Communication strategy and incentives such as
inspectors and school directors to use the             improved working conditions through the
new skills and training materials.                     provision of state of the art training materials.
Insufficient or delayed counterpart          S         Public commitment by the Government to
(Government) funds.                                    Modernize the education sector reduces the risk
that funding will not be available.
Insufficient incentives are in place to      S         Consultation and communication strategy.
encouarage HE institutions to carry out
internal reforms and to participate in the
Competitive Teaching and Management
System for Higher Education.
Insufficient incentives are in place to      S         Constant consultation supported by a continuous
encourage local governments to                        information and communication strategy.
participate in Delegated Budget and
School Network Optimization programs.
Overall Risk Rating                          S         Permanent communication with MES and close
supervision during the initial phase of project
implementation.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Increase in student fees for higher education could create opposition from students. The Government has
recenily submitted to Parliament, and Parliament has enacted legislation establishing student fees with very
little opposition. The establishment of a modern student loan and stipend system should help reduce this
risk.
Anoth,er sensitive area is school optimization. School closings are typically very controversial. Effective
public communications explaining the educational benefits for children or cost benefits to municipalities
might help alleviate problems. Also, teachers that would be losing their job could be provided with
"lifelong learning" training opportunities to effectively help retrain them. Some of these teachers could be
provicled with employment opportunities by the newly established in-service teacher training providers.
G. Mlain Loan Conditions
1. EfiFectiveness Condition
1. None.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
1. Maintain with adequate staff and resources the Project Coordination Unit, the Competitive Teaching
and Management System, the Higher Education Steering Committee, the Student Assessment Unit, the
Resource Allocation Committee for higher education.
2. Appoint independent auditors by March 30, 2001.
3. Submit a Progress Report and an Annual Action Plan no later than May 15 of each year, including a
Procurement Plan.
4. Carry out review, by November 30, 2002, of the implementation of the project and achievement of its
otjectives.
- 29 -



Conditions of Disbursement:
1. The appointment of the communication officer and the bilingual secretary in the PCU would be
conditions of disbursement for payments for consultant services for the communication and information
sub-component.
2. The appointment of an executive director and members of the executive council for the CTMS with
qualifications and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank would be condition of disbursement for
payments for consultant services for the CTMS sub-component.
H. Readiness for Implementation
3 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
11 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
X 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
2 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The procurement documents for the first six months activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
-. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
n 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Enest, P. Cuadra                  Annette Dixon                      Andrew  . Vorkink
1&afi Leader          tSector ManagerlDirector                    K' Country Manager/Director
- 30 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BULGARIA: Education Modernization Project
Key Perfomance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indictors           Monitorirg & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Support th,e Government's    New curriculum is aligned    Analysis of student assessment No major economic or social
effort to fight poverty and  with modernization of   and of special surveys with   crisis
develop Human capital.    economy                    employers
Support mieasures designed to Increase proportion of  Analysis of education     Enough resources are
arrest the deterioration in    education expenditures going  expenditures       allocated to develop policy
education quality, increase the to inputs other than teacher                    dialogue on education with the
efficiency of resource    salaries                                              Government
allocation. and improve equity
in the education sector
Program IPurpose:         End-of-Program Indicators:  Program reports:          (from Purpose to Goal)
1. Improve the quality of  At least 60 percent of school  Student assessment    Government maintains
teaching and learning in  teachers are using interactive                        commitment and continuity
Bulgarian pre-university and  learning processes in their    Surveys and studies assessing towards the education reform.
higher education institutions. classrooms.           the operation of schools and
HE institutions.          Government develops
Inspectorates are supporting                         commitment and support for
school directors and teachers  Routine statistics compiled   the reform among key
in their effort to improve  and published by MES.    stakeholders (teachers, school
student attainment by                                directors, inspectors, and
providing mentoring sessions  Internal reports of HE  rectors, faculty and students of
and by helping them       institutions.              HE institutions.
understand the results of
student assessment and     Reports produced by the HE   State budget and expenditures
evaluation.                accreditation system.     for education remains at least
constant in real term over
Curriculum in participating   Audit of HE institutions.    time.
HE institutions is revamped
with greater emphasis on
meeting labor force and
societal needs.
Increase by 20 percent in
number of young academic
staff in HE institutions with
post-graduate degrees.
- 31 -



2. Improve overall resource   85 percent of municipalities                          Municipalities are motivated
management in Bulgarian     have prepared school network                            and interested in optimizing
pre-university and higher   optimization plans.                                     their school network.
education institutions.
80 percent of the                                      Municipalities are interested
municipalities which have                              in transferring school
prepared school network                                 management and budget to the
optimization plans are                                 school level.
implementing those plans.
HE institutions are motivated
Schools participating in the                           to offer join services and to
Delegated Budget program                                consolidate some of their
increase by 50 percent the                              services and programs.
amount of the school budget
spent on teaching materials.                            Senior faculty members in HE
institutions are willing to
25 percent of HE institutions                           retire and to open
are offering joint services and                         opportunities to new faculty
programs through                                        members.
consolidation and/or merging.
The management structure,
including the management
staff at participating HE
institutions is improved.
- 32 -



Key Perfont4nce
Him"t of 2j.._Eces              taNlcutionr          _                          Critcal Assumptions
Project Development       Outcome / Impact          Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                Indicators:
1. To create the conditions for 1. I Curriculum Council (CC) Routine project supervision.  Support for education reform
enhancinjg the quality of the   established.                                   is sustained at the level of the
teaching :force and improving  1.2 Curriculum Resource                         Government in general and
the learning processes in  Center (CRC) established.                           specially at the level of the
primary and secondary     1.3 National Assessment Unit                         Ministry of Finance and
schools.                 is operational.                                       Ministry of Education and
1.4 Detailed plan for training                      Science.
teachers in the new standards
and curriculum is ready and                          HE institutions have the
operational; training of                             capacity to prepare and
teachers in grades 9 and 10 is                       present proposals to the
completed and evaluated..                            Competitive Teaching and
1.5 Research Studies                                Management System for
Completed, Stakeholders                              Higher Education.
Consulted, And Preliminary
Plan Proposed For The Design
And Implementation Of A
Demand-Led In-Service
Teacher Training System.
2. To create the conditions for 2.1 Legislation to expand
a more efficient use of   Delegated Budget modified.
financial, physical and human 2.2 Education Management
resources in primary and  Information System
secondary schools.        established.
3. To create the conditions for 3.1 Competitive Teaching and
enhancing the quality of the   Management System for
teaching iorce and improving Higher Education is
the learning processes in  operational.
higher edacation institutions.
4. To create the conditions for 4.1 Finance Council for
a more efficient use of   Higher Education established.
financial, physical and human 4.2 Student Loan Agency
resources in higher education  established.
institutions.             4.3 Higher Education
Management Information
System established.
- 33 -



Key PFo nac
Output from each              Output Indicators:           Project reports:              (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Create the conditions for
enhancing the quality of the
teaching force and improving
the learning processes in
primary and secondary schools.
1. New standards-based
curriculum developed for grades  Capacity Building in MES:  MES statistics               MES is willing to reform its
I to 12, and student assessment  1.1 Train key MES personnel in                          intemal structure for the creation
and evaluation system created.   curriculum design and     Project supervision reports   of new units
implementation by 12/2001.
1.2 Develop and introduce new                              MES is willing and has the
curriculum standards and content                           capacity to change key regulation.
for different subjects in grades 1,
5, and IO by 9/2001.                                       Trained staff are motivated to
1.3 Establish subject working                              implement the new curriculum.
groups and appoint members by
2/2001.                                                    New methods and materials are
1.4 Training seminars for writing                          used by newly trained staff.
new state requirements (national
standards) and curriculum content                          Competencies acquired by trained
(programs of study) for all                                staff are actually used.
subjects with advice on teaching
approaches attended by 120                                 Results of surveys and studies are
specialists.                                               utilized to improve design and
1.5 Curriculum Council members                             implementation of curriculum and
participate in study tours by                               training.
1/2002.
1.6 Council members receive 100
hours of technical assistance for
defining and writing new
standards.
1.7 Regulations to support the
introduction of new standards are
prepared by September 2001.
1.8 Draft, consult and approve
state requirements and
curriculum content for grades
1,5,and 10 by 7/2001.
Structures for Sustainable
Curriculum Development:
1.9 New structure and operational
rules and roles of the Educational
Policy Directorate are defined by
12/2000.                                                _   _
-34 -



1.10 TORs, constitution and
memberships of CC defined by
January 2001.
1. 11 Ministerial Decree creates
the CC by March 2001.
1.12 Recruit and train members
of CC by June 2001.
1.13 Complete study visits to
schools by November 2001.
1.14 Equip and endow Resource
Center with state of the art
materials and access to intemet
by end of project (EOP).
1.15 Commission background
studies on effective teaching and
monitoring implement-
ation of new curriculum by EOP.
Assessment and Evaluation
System:
1.16 Establish TORs, agree on
staffing structure and draft job
description for student
assessment and evaluation unit
byl2/2000.
1 .17 Establish student assessment
and evaluation unit within MES
by 6/2000.
1.18 Refurbish and equip student
assessment and evaluation unit,
including hardware and software
by 3/2001.
1. 19 Develop assessment
instruments by 7/2002.
1.20 Train student assessment
specialists by 1/2002.
1.21 Train staff of schools in
administering instruments and for
markers by 7/2002.
1.22 Study visits to leam from
best practices on development of
student assessment systems
completed by 11/2001.
1.23 Fellowship to train
assessment specialists on state of
the art methodologies for student
assessment completed by
'I12/2001.
- 35 -



1.24 Develop assessment
instruments for assessing student
achievement, including
consultation with stakeholders by
7/2002.
1.25 Assessment of grade 12
students, including pilot test by Y
3/2003.
1.26 MES develops a working
system to monitor the efficiency
of individual schools by 3/2003.
Educational Materials
1.27 Technical specifications for
the production of new educational
material ready by 9/2002.
2.1 200 2- day training seminars
for 9000 school directors and
2. Awareness-raising training in  inspectors conducted in August   Project Monitoring system  Trained staff are motivated to
new standards and curriculum  2001 and August 2002.                                      implement new curriculum and
implemented and plan for      2.2 Detailed Information      Project supervision reports  they use the competencies
systematic training prepared.  Packages To Support Awareness                              acquired during the training.
Training By School Directors
Produced And Distributed For
Each Teacher In Relevant Grades:
21000 In For Grades 1,5,11 In
2001; 21,000 For Grades 2,6,12
In 2002; 12,000 For Grades 3,7 In
2003.
2.3 awareness sessions provided
annually in every school by
directors for teachers in relevant
grades (listed in 2.2 above)
2.4 3-day training sessions
provided annually for 140
members of regional support
groups, to assist them in
supporting teachers implementing
new curricula.
2.5 2-day training sessions
provided for all teachers in grades
9 and 10 (approx. 12,000) in
groups no larger than 35, in July
._________________________ and august 2002.
- 36 -



3. MES capacity to organize a   3.1 Two research studies for the                        Results of surveys and studies are
demand-led training is developed. development of a demand-led                           utilized to improve design and
in-service teacher training                               implementation of curriculum and
completed by January 2002.                                training.
3.2 One consultation seminar for
60 participants to provide input
on proposed plan for demand
demand-driven in-service teacher
training completed by April,
2003.
1. Create the conditions for    1. I Selection criteria to choose
improving overall resource   participating municipalities and   Supervision reports     Municipalities are motivated to
management in prmary and   pselection of municipalities is                              participate in the Delegated
secondary schools.           prepared by 12/2000.          Special surveys              Budget Program.
1.2 Allocation formula in
1. The Delegated Budget      participating municipalities is    MES statistics          Competencies acquired by trained
Program is extended.         designed and implemented by                                staff are actually used.
12/2000.
1.3 Policy makers complete study                          Municipalities and schools have
visits to current sites where                             the resources to maintain and
program is in operation and                                update the equipment received.
abroad where similar programs
are operating at a national scale
by 9/2001.
1.4 FMSE Center staff is
increased from 3 to 5 by 1/2001.
1.5 Equip the FMSE Center with
appropriate hardware and
software by 3/2001.
1.6 Implement a train the trainer
program to increase the total
number of trainers that will be
supporting the introduction of
delegated budget in schools by
3/2001.
1.7 Assessment of training,
hardware and software needs of
participating municipalities and
schools is completed by 6/2001.
1.8 School administration tools
and software to support the
introduction of delegated budget
are developed by 2/2001.
-37 -



1.9 1600 school directors
participate in training seminars
and workshops on management of
school budget by 9/2003.
1.10 300 school administrative
staff participate in training
workshops on uses of specialist
school administration tools and
software by 9/2003.
1.11 10% of local education
officers are trained in the
operation of the program by
9/2002.
1.12 1600 participating schools
and 24 municipalities receive
hardware and software to support
financial control and management
of school budget by 7/2003.
1.13 A total of 1600 schools
receive and administer lump-sum
budget in 24 municipalities by
7/2003.
2. MES' capacity to provide  School Place Planning and     Supervision reports.         There is political will in MES to
technical support to         Optimization System:                                       empower Municipalities to
municipalities for optimizing the  2.1 Methodology for School  MES statistics.          prepare and implement their own
school network is strengthened.  Place Planning and optimization                        school optimization plans.
system (SPPO) including criteria
which schools should satisfy to be                         Municipalities are willing to
educationally and financially                              work with MES in the
viable is developed by 12/2002.                            preparation of school
2.2 Geographic Information                                 optimization plans.
System to support SPPO,
including data collection and
analysis is established by 2/2003.                         Competencies acquired by trained
2.3 Procurement of hardware and                            staff are actually used.
software to support the
implementation of SPPO is
completed by 6/2001.
2.4 Training of local education
officials on SPPO is completed by
1/2003.
2.5 School place planning system
is operational by 10/2003.
- 38 -



3. MES Education Management  3.1 Develop and implement      Supervision reports.           MES authorities are willing to
Information System (EMIS) is   capacity for information gathering                         use empirical data for the
established.                  through the use of periodic                                  formulation of educational
surveys, focus groups, special                              policies and for the evaluation of
studies, auditing, etc. by 10/2002.                         the impact and results of the
3.2 Develop and implement                                   changes introduces.
capacity for data analysis (system,
statistical, financial, cost, etc.                          Trained staff are motivated and
simulation and forecast,                                    are given the opportunity to use
dissemination and reporting by                              the new knowledge and skills
5/2003.                                                     acquired and to be involved in
3.3 Training seminars and                                   policy design.
workshop for EMIS staff of the
on techniques of data collection,                           Competencies acquired by trained
simulation, analysis and reporting                          staff are actually used.
by 12/2001.
3.4 Study visits for 4 to learn
from best practices abroad by
4/2002.
3.5 Refurbish and equip EMIS
unit with hardware and software
required for data collection,
storage, analysis and
dissemination by 8/2002.
1. I Working group of MES staff
Ill. Create the conditions for   and HE officials is established by Supervision reports    MES maintains commitment to
improving overall resource    12/2000 date to develop a merged                             implement new resource
manageiment in higher         process of allocating seats and    Regular reports from the  allocation system.
education institutions.       resources.                    Resource Allocation Committee.
1. The allocation process for  1.2 With foreign TA, the                                   MES has the capacity to involve
resources and seats in HE is  Working Group develops criteria                              HE institutions in the design of
reformed.                     for setting "prices" for the                                the new resource allocation
allocation of seats and resources                           system.
by 7/2001.
1.3 A governance mechanism to                               There is no strong opposition
serve as a forum for negotiations                           from HE institutions to the reform
between MES and HE officials is                             of the resource allocation system.
established by 10/2001.
1.4 A computer model for
simulating the results of different
allocation procedures and prices
is developed by MES staff and
foreign and local consultants by
_7/2001.                                                                            _ .
- 39 -



1.5 MES prepares a proposal for
new allocation procedures by
8/2001.
1.6 New allocation procedures
for resources and seats are
adopted by Parliament by 1/2002.
1.7 The new allocation
procedures are implemented by
7/2002.
2.1 Develop and implement
2. A Higher Education         capacity for information gathering Supervision reports       HE institutions are motivated to
Management Information System  through the use of periodic                                 participate in the new HE
(HEMIS) is established.       surveys, focus groups, special                               management information system
studies, auditing, etc. by 9/2003.                          and are willing to submit accurate
2.2 Develop and implement                                   and reliable reports on a regular
capacity for data analysis (system,                         basis.
statistical, financial, cost, etc.
simulation and forecast,
dissemination and reporting by
9/2003.
2.3 Training seminars and
workshop for HEMIS staff of the
on techniques of data collection,
simulation, analysis and reporting
by 10/2002.
2.4 Study visits for a team of 4 to
learn from best practices abroad
by 5/2002.
2.5 Refurbish and equip HEMIS
unit with hardware and software
required for data collection,
storage, analysis and
dissemination by 5/2002.
IV. Retain Accessibility to
higher education institutions.   I Reports are prepared by local
1. A student loan program and    consultants by 11/2001 date on
reform of existing system of  the current use of financial  Supervision reports            MES maintains commitment to
stipends is established.      assistance in Bulgaria for both                             the introduction of student fees
stipends and student loans.   Data from MES                 and systematically increase its
2 Working group of MES staff,                               value to match real costs.
HE officials, and consultants is
formed by 12/2000 to identify the                           There is no strong opposition
need for student financial                                   from students to the introduction
assistance in the future and to                              of fees and to its increase in
recommend a student aid scheme                              value.
in Bulgaria.                                                                              l
-40 -



3 A financial model is developed                              MES is able to design a student
by 7/2001 to estimate the costs of                            loan program that motivates
different financial assistance                                Private Banks to participate.
arrangements.
4 A proposal is developed by the
Student Aid Working Group by
11/2001Ito the MES.
5 The MES proposes a student
aid scheme by 4/2002.
6 The Parliament adopts a
student aid scheme by 4/2003.
V. Create the conditions for
enhancing the quality of the
teaching f(orce and learning
processes in higher education
institutionis.                 1.1I TA is provided to identify                                HE institutions are motivated and
1. A Competitive Teaching and   priorities for a Competitive  Supervision reports.           have the capacity to prepare and
Managemenit System for Higher  Teaching and Management                                       implement proposal for
Education for improving teaching System for Higher Education to   Pefiodic reports from the  improvement of management and
and resource management is    improve the quality of teaching.  Competitive Teaching and     teaching.
created.                       1.2 Working group of MES staff  Management System for Higher
and HE officials is fonned by  Education.
1 1/2000 to identify priorities for
the proposed Fund.
1.3 List of activities
contemplated under the auspices
of the Fund are presented by the
fund working group to MES for
consideration by 12/2000.
1.4 Estimates of the potential
cost entailed in funding the list of
priorities of the Fund are
prepared by 1/2001.
VI. Strengthen MES internal
management capacity for
project management and         1.1I Refurbish and equip the PCU
communications.                with necessary hardware and
1. Project C'oordination Unit  software by 5/2001.                                           PCU and working groups have
(PCU) established.             1.2 PCU is trained in pro-gramu   Supervision reports         full ownership of the goals, and
planning, moni-toring,                                        implementation arrangements of
procurement and financial                                     the project and have the tools and
management by 5/2001.                                         resources to adopt a result
oriented approach to project
implementation.
-41-



2. Project has an operating  2.1 Communication cam-paign to
communication strategy.     support the introduction of new
standards and curriculum content
and its implication for teaching
methods established by EOP.
2.2 introduction of new student
assessment system established by
EOP.
2.3 Communication campaign to
support the introduction of new
inspection framework established
by EOP.
2.4 Communication campaign to
support the introduction of
Competitive Teaching and
Management System for Higher
Education for in-service training
established by EOP.
2.5 Communication campaign to
support the Introduction of the
School Network
2.6 Communication campaign to
support the introduction of new
system of student loans and
stipends for higher education
established by EOP.
2.7 Communication campaign to
support the introduction of
Competitive Teaching and
Management System for Higher
Education for improvement of
teaching and management in
higher education established by
EOP.
-42 -



Hlrarchy of  Q ,jetlvs                 Mr_s                 Monitoring & Evaluation         Critical Aswsnrqp ns
Project Components I          Inputs: (budget for each      Project reports:               (from Components to
Sub-components:               component)                                                   Outputs)
1. Create the conditions for    US$5.22 million
improving the quality of the
teaching force and learning
processes in primary and
secondary schools.
1.1 Deve:lopment of new                                     Regular Bank monitoring reports Trained staff are motivated to
curriculurm and teaching                                    including:                     continue to work in relevant
approaches, and establishment of                               *  progress reporting       positions and are able to apply
student assessment system.                                     *  financial reporting      new knowledge and skills.
A. Build sustainable expertise in                              *  disbursement reports
curriculurn design and                                         *  procurement records      Newly created structures are
implementation within MES.                                     *  Contracts, TORs          accepted and operate with
B. Establishing the structures for                             *  Audits                   minimum conflict with exiting
sustainable curriculum                                         *  Supervision reports      units.
development.
Strengthening policy                                                                   Newly created units receive
functions of Educational Policy                                                            adequate resources for its
Directorate.                                                                               operations.
Establishment of Curriculum
Council.
Establishment of Curriculum
Resource Center within the
Education Policy Directorate.
C. Establishment of a student
assessment and evaluations
system and a unit within the
MES.
-  Establish National Student
Assessment Unit as a financially
independent project within MES.
-  Development of assessment
system and implementation of
system in grades 12.
Analysis and dissemination
of results.
D. Develop new educational
materials.
*  Consultation process and
study tours for the definition of
needs and technical specifications
of new educational materials.
Prepare technical
specifications for new educational
materials.
-43 -



1.2a Awareness-raising training                               Regular Bank monitoring reports Training materials are used by
in new standards and curriculum                               including:                      inspectors and school directors to
implemented and plan for                                         *  progress reporting       raise awareness and train
systematic training delivered.                                   *  financial reporting      teachers.
*  Prepare training program for                                  *  disbursement reports
school directors, inspectors, and                                *  procurement records      Competencies acquired by
regional support groups.                                         *  Contracts, TORs           inspectors and school directors
*  Recruit and train trainers of                                 *  Audits                   are actually used in working with
school directors and regional                                    *  Supervision reports      teachers.
support groups.
*  Prepare training materials for
school principals, inspectors, and
regional support groups to be
used by trainers.
*  Prepare each year detailed
information packages for teachers
in relevant grades, to be used in
awareness sessions provided
annually by directors in each
school.
Provide Annual Training For
School Directors, Inspectors and
Regional Support Groups.
Train school directors and
inspectors.
Cascade awareness-raising
training for all teachers by school
directors and inspectors.
Prepare training plan and
strategy on new standards and
curriculum.
Recruit and train trainers for
second wave of teacher training.
Prepare training packages for
training of teachers in grades 9
and 10 in 2002 and grades 1,5,11
in 2003
Provide training of teachers in
grades 9 and 10, in July and
august, 2002.
Evaluate all training sessions
provided and incorporate
recommendations, for continued
improvement of training system.
1.2b Development of MES                                       Regular Bank monitoring reports There is interest within NGOs
capacity for stimulating the                                  including:                      and other independent
creation of a demand-led                                         *  progress reporting        institutions to participate in
in-service training system.                                      *  financial reporting      the provision of in-service
Feasibility studies for the                                  *  disbursement reports      teacher training.
development of a demand-led                                      *  procurement records
in-service teacher training                                      *  Contracts, TORs
system.                                                          *  Audits
Consultation process for the                                 *  Supervision reports
design of a demand-led in-service
teacher training system.
-44 -



IL. Create conditions for    US$6.13 million
improving overall resource
management in primary and
secondary schools.
2.1 Extension of Delegated                                Regular Bank monitoring reports Training, equipment, protocols
Budget Program                                            including:                    and systems developed by the
*  progress reporting      program are used at the school
Establishment of institutional                           *  financial reporting     level for managing resources.
capacity for implementation of                               *  disbursement reports
delegated budget; define rules                               *  procurement records
and regulations; and strengthen                              *  Contracts, TORs
implementation capacity of the                               *  Audits
Financial Management of School                               *  Supervision reports
Education (FMSE) Center.
.  Allocation of lump-sum
budgets to participating schools
and management of the budget by
schools.
*  Equip schools participating
in the program.
*  Train school personnel and
local education officials involved
in the program.
*  Select municipalities that
will participate in the next phase
of extension of the program.
2.2 Strengthening MES capacity
for providing technical support to
municipalities for the
optimization of the school                                  Regular Bank monitoring     Methodology and systems
network.                                                    reports including:          developed by MES are accepted
*  progress reporting    and adopted by Municipalities for
*  financial reporting   optimizing their network of
*  disbursement reports    schools
* procurement records
* Contracts, TORs
* Audits
* Supervision reports
-45 -



Development of a school place
planning and optimization system
(SPPO).
Development of a geographic
information system.
Training of local education
officials on school place planning.
2.3 Establishment of an
Education Management                                        Regular Bank monitoring reports Training and equipment are used
Information System (EMIS) in the                            including:                     by staff for data collection,
MES at the secondary level.                                    *  progress reporting       synthesis and analysis.
*  financial reporting
-  Establishment of a unit                                     *  disbursement reports     School directors and local
responsible for putting in place                               *  procurement records      authorities are motivated to
and managing an integrated                                     *  Contracts, TORs          provide accurate and valid
EMIS.                                                          *  Audits                  information to MES.
.  Development and testing of                                  *  Supervision reports
data collection instruments and
collect data.
Equip central and pilot units.
Training of staff and
development of data analysis and
reporting capability by EMIS
unit.
III. Creation of conditions for
improving overall resource
management in higher
education institutions.
3.1a Reform of allocation
processes for resources and seats US$0.45 million
in Higher Education.
*  Consultation process and
technical work for designing of
formula and new allocation
system.
Creation of the governing
body that will manage the
resource allocation process.
3.1b Establishment of a Higher                                Regular Bank monitoring
Education Management                                          reports including:
Information System (HEMIS) in                                  *  progress reporting
the MES                                                        o* financial reporting
Establishment and set up of a                              *  disbursement reports
unit responsible for putting in                                *  procurement records
place and managing an integrated                               *  Contracts, TORs
HEMIS.                                                         *  Audits
-  Development and testing of                                  *  Supervision reports
data collection instruments and
collect data.
-  Training of staff and
development of data analysis and
reporting capability by HEMIS
unit.
-46 -



IV Establishing a student loan US$0.23 million
program. and reform of existing
system of stipends.
Consultation process and
technical work for designing the
student loan and stipend system.
- Creation of the governing
body thal wi]l manage the student
loan system.
V. Creation of a             US$5.59 million               Regular Bank monitoring
Competitive Teaching and                                   reports including:
Management System for                                         *  progress reporting
Higher Education for                                          0  financial reporting
improving teaching and                                        *  disbursement reports
resource management                                           *  procurement records
*  Study visit to learn about                                *  Contracts, TORs
the operation of similar                                      *  Audits
systems in other countries.                                   *  Supervision reports
*  Consultative process for
the creation of the system.
*  Establishment of
procedures for the operation of
the system and the governing
body that will administer the
system.
VI. Strengthen MES internal   US$0.67 million              Regular Bank monitoring reports PCU remains fully staffed and
management capacity for                                    including:                    operational with appropriate
project management and                                        *  progress reporting      skills and procedures
communications.                                               *  financial reporting
*  disbursement reports    PCU communicates effectively
6.1 Establishment of a                                        *  procurement records     with working groups and other
Program/Project coordination                                  *  Contracts, TORs         implementing agencies
unit, including:                                              *  Audits
*  Supervision reports     MES management provides
Development of the staffs                                                             leadership to guide and support
procurement capacity and set up                                                          communication and information
of a financial management system                                                         strategy.
to tract and monitor prqject
accounts.
6.2 Design and implement a
communications campaign
*  Development of a
communication campaigns to
inform public at-large about the
implementation of the program
and to support specific aspects of
it.
Front End Fee                US$0.14
TOTAL:                       US$18.43 million
- 47 -



Annex 2: Project Description
BULGARIA: Education Modernization Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$5.22 million
Component 1. To improve the quality of teaching and learning in general education the program will:
(i) support the introduction of new standards-based curriculum, design and test on a pre-pilot basis a new
inspection system related to curriculum, and student assessment and evaluation instruments; and (ii) reform
the in-service training system for teachers, school directors, inspectors and local education administrators.
Sub-component 1.1. To help introduce a standards-based curriculum and the creation of a student
assessment and evaluation system the program supports two main interventions. First, it will contribute
to building sustainable expertise in curriculum development and implementation within MES. Second, it
will help establish the structures for sustainable curriculum development by establishing a Curriculum
Council and a Curriculum Resource Center within the Educational Policy Directorate. The principal
activities to be implemented during phase I of the program will consist of: (a) establishment of the
Curriculum Council and the Curriculum Resource Center; (b) commissioning studies on effective teaching
methods and techniques for curriculum monitoring and evaluation of students at the classroom level; (c)
continuing the implementation of the interim curriculum in grades 1, 2 , 5, 6, and 9 to 12 and the evaluation
of the impact of that curriculum; (d) development of detailed programs of study for the new curriculum in
core subjects in the relevant grades; (e) design technical specifications and preparation of bidding
documents for the production and distribution of new educational materials to schools; (f) establishment of
the National Assessment Unit; (g) initial development of test for grade 12; (h) refurbish and equip
assessment unit; and (i) train core staff of assessment unit. The main activities to be implemented during
phase II of the program will consist of: (a) implementation of the new curriculum in all remaining grades;
(b) production and distribution of new teaching materials for all grades; (c) monitoring the implementation
of the new curriculum; (d) conduct full assessment of grade 12 students; (e) finalize training of staff of
assessment unit; (f) initial development of assessment of grade 4 (or 8); and (g) complete equipping
assessment unit. Finally, in phase III the program contemplates: (a) consolidate the new curriculum by
introducing changes to reflect the results of the monitoring and evaluation process; (b) conduct an impact
evaluation of the introduction of the new curriculum; (c) implement assessment of grade 4 (or 8); (d) design
and implement assessment of grade 8 (or 4); and (e) develop testing materials for other grades that teachers
can use in their schools. The inputs to be finance under this sub-component include technical assistance,
training seminars, study visits, data collection and analysis, equipment, small civil works, fellowships, and
state-of-the-art materials.
Sub-component 1.2. To encourage the development of an improved national capacity to deliver high
quality, cost effective and relevant in-service training for teachers, school directors, inspectors and local
education administrators and planners, the program will promote the development of a demand-driven
system of in-service teacher training. It is envisioned that in the early stages of the creation of this
system, MES will need to adopt a more directive role than what will be required at a later stage, when a
network of independent training providers has been developed. During the initial stage MES will need to
make sure that inspectors, school directors and teachers receive some basic training to support the
implementation of the new standards and curriculum. At the same time it will need to develop the
accreditation procedures for licensing training providers, revise the funding procedures for in-service
training and the system for certification of in-service levels, and the standards of accountability and
procedures for monitoring quality of provision. Finally, it will need to support training providers so they
- 48 -



can development the technical capacity and skills needed to deliver the training courses that will be required
by the new system of standards. The main activities that will be implemented during phase I include: (a)
awareness-raising training of school directors and inspectors on the new standards; (b) cascade
awareness-raising training for all teachers by school directors and inspectors; (c) training of regional
support groups, to assist teachers in implementation of new curriculum and teaching methods; (d) design,
printing and distribution of information packages for teachers, for use annually in awareness sessions
provided by directors; (e) design, printing and distribution of training packages for the training of teachers,
to start in the last year of phase 1; (f) training of teachers in grades 9 and 10 in july-august, 2002; (g)
feasibility study and consultation process for the creation of a demand-led training system for in-service
teacher training; (h) develop sample norms and regulations in consultation with stakeholders for the
introduction of such a system; and (i) strengthen the capacity of MES to organize a demand-led in:service
teacher training system. The main activities contemplated for phase II are: (a) initial training of 21,000
teachers in 2003 and 2004, and 12,000 in 2005; (b) impact evaluation of the training; (c) develop
procedures to accredit teacher training institutions that will participate in the new demand-led training
systerm; (d) design training program in new teaching methods to be delivered through the new training
syste:m; (e) strengthen the capacity of the current and potential new providers to provide in-service teacher
training close to schools; (f) design a pilot project for operating a demand-led training system; and (g)
revision of certification arrangements for the provision of in-service teacher training and removal of exiting
monopoly of teacher training institutes. Finally, during phase III the project will concentrate on: (a)
establishing the new demand-led in-service teacher training system; (b) training teachers on new teaching
methods and pedagogy using the newly established demand-led training system; and (c) evaluating the
impact of the new system. The main inputs to be financed under this sub-component include training
seminars, development of training and promotional materials, fellowships, technical assistance, and
monitoring and evaluation.
Project Component 2 - US$6.13 million
Component 2. To improve overall resource management in general education the program will
support the following three sub-components: (i) extension of the Delegated Budget Program at the national
level; (ii) strengthen MES capacity to provide technical support to municipalities for optimizing the local
school network; and (iii) establishment of a modem Education Management Information System (EMIS) in
MES.
Sub-component 2.1. To give school directors greater discretion in spending decisions in their schools, the
program contemplates extending the pilot project on delegated budget to all general and vocational
schools by the year 2009. This should help promote a more efficient use of school resources, encourage
flexibility and innovation in school management and promote greater community participation on school
matters. The infrastructure for a national extension of delegated budget was developed under the pilot
project supported by PHARE. There is currently an active Working Group including representatives from
MES and the Ministry of Finance. Training materials have been developed and tested, and there is a cadre
of experience trainers. Also, a Training Center has been established as an independent unit within MES
and a director appointed to manage the national extension of the program.  The main activities
contemplated for phase I include: (a) update and expand decree 30/98, removing conflicts with other
legislation and setting a time table for national implementation; (b) evaluate the impact of delegated budget
in 24 pilot municipalities incorporated to the system during 1999-2000; (c) strengthen the training capacity
of the Training Center; (d) equip schools participating in the 24 pilot municipalities; (e) extend delegated
budgets to an additional 30 municipalities, including equipping schools; and (f) select municipalities for the
next phase. During phase II, the program contemplates: (a) extending delegated budget to an additional
214 municipalities base on the following schedule: 30 municipalities in year 2003, 50 municipalities each in
year 2004 and 2005, and 80 municipalities in year 2006; and (b) evaluate impact of delegation in the first
-49 -



54 municipalities and on the new municipalities that are added each year. Finally , starting in the year
2007 the program contemplates extending delegated budget to special schools. As schools become
self-managing, effectiveness has to be judged by educational outcomes rather than inputs. This means that
a student assessment and evaluation system would need to be developed concurrently with this initiative.
The main activities to be financed under the project include training materials and seminars, computer
equipment and software, e-mail connection, office equipment, technical assistance, and study visits to
current sites where program is in operations and abroad where similar programs are operating on a national
scale.
Sub-component 2.2. In order to assist MES and individual municipalities implement a program of school
closure and amalgamation, the program will strengthen MES capacity to assist municipalities in deciding
how to optimize their school network. For this sub-component, the first phase of the program will focus
on: (a) developing and evaluation of a school place planning and optimization methodology by the MES
that would be made available to local governments so they can prepare their own optimization plans; (b)
training local officials on how to use the methodology; (c) developing and distributing training materials for
school place planning and optimization; and (d) equipping MES to work with a computerized school place
planning model. During the second phase, the program will support dissemination work and technical
assistance provided by MES to municipalities to assist then in the preparation and implementing
optimization programs. The main activities to be financed under this sub-component include training
seminars, technical assistance, field visits, consultation process, development and printing of training and
promotional materials, equipment and software, data collection, analysis and dissemination, and grants to
municipalities.
Sub-component 2.3. To strengthen MES capacity to design, implement and evaluate new policy options
and programs, the program will help establish a new Education Management Information System. This
unit will be responsible for providing policy makers with information about the state and evolution of the
education system, and for conducting simulations and forecast. During phase L. the program will support:
(a) the establishment of the EMIS unit with qualified personnel; (b) the development of the specifications of
the EMIS both with respect to the structure of the data that it will contain and manage, and in relation to
the hardware and software that will be necessary to support the data management activities; (c) training of
MES personnel and users at the national level; (d) develop of a pilot system for data collection and
management at the central level; (e) evaluation of the pilot; and (g) tender and procurement of hardware
and software for pilot system. During phase II the program will support the expansion of the pilot to the
national level including: (a) training of inspectors and other local users; (b) tender and procurement of
hardware and software to support national expansion; and (c) evaluation of data utilization practices by
users. The main activities to be financed under this component will be data gathering and analysis, policy
studies and evaluation, technical assistance, the development of a comprehensive education data base for
pre-university education, hardware and software, training, seminars, and study visits.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.45 million
Component 3. To improve efficiency and effectiveness in allocating resources to higher education
institutions the program contemplates the implementation of the following two sub-components: (i) reform
of allocation processes for resources and seats; and (ii) the establishment of a dedicated national higher
education management information system (HEMIS).
Sub-component 3.1. The reform of the allocation process for resources and seats will be promoted in
two important ways. First, the processes of allocating seats and resources would be integrated and a system
of normative costs would be introduced. Second, there will be debate over whether the priorities for
funding should be based on policy considerations more than on costs and whether the funding for research
- 50 -



should be separate from the funding for instruction. It is expected that these reforms in the allocation
process would encourage the consolidation of institutions and, that together with other measures supported
by the program such as the Competitive Teaching and Management System for Higher Education (see
sub-component 3.2), would increase the efficiency of the system, thus freeing up resources that could be
used :for quality enhancements. During phase I, the program will support: (i) the establishment and setting
into operation of a Resource Allocation Committee; (ii) a consultation process for deciding on the
principles and priorities that will guide the new allocation system; (iii) the definition of the formula for
allocaLtion; and (iv) pilot testing and evaluation of the new system and formula. During phase II, the
program will support; (i) the implementation of the new system and formula on a national scale; and (ii) the
continuous monitoring and evaluation of the new system and formula. Finally, during phase III, the
program will support the introduction of changes in the new system and its continuous evaluatioh. The
principal activities to be financed by this sub-component would be technical assistance to develop the new
allocation system and formulas, studies to support the design and evaluation of the new system and
formula, training of staff responsible for operating the new system, equipment necessary for the
establishment and operation of the Resource Allocation Committee, seminars and other consultation related
activities, dissemination materials, and a study tour to observe how such a process works in selected other
countries.
Sub-component 3.2. rhe program will support the development of a modem monitoring system to assist
the MES and higher education policy makers track the implementation of the reforms. This will be
accomrplished through the establishment of a higher education management information system that will
collect, disseminate and make information available on the status and management of the higher education
system and institutions. During phase I, the program will support: (i) the design of the system through a
process of consultation that will involve different stakeholders, technical analysis and feasibility studies; (ii)
the establishment of a HEMIS within MES with qualified personnel; (iii) design and validation of data
collection instruments and processes; (iv) design and validation of a dissemination and data utilization
strategy and procedures; (v) training of key personnel and users; and (vi) a pilot test of the system and its
evaluation. During phase II, the program will support: (i) the expansion of the pilot to the whole system of
HE institutions; (ii) training of users; (iii) production of reports and monitoring; and (iv) evaluation of the
system. The main activities to be financed under this component will be data gathering and analysis, policy
studies and evaluation, technical assistance, the development of a higher education management data base,
hardware and software, training, seminars, and study visits.
Project Component 4 - US$0.23 million
Comiponent 4. To retain accessibility to higher education institutions, the program contemplates the
estab]lishment of a student loan program and the reform of the existing system of stipends. The program
would support the development of a student loan program designed to help higher education students pay
tuitio:n fees. It would also include a redesign of the current stipend system to ensure that stipends and
loans work in tandem to enhance access. The desired project outcome would be that at least 25 percent of
students are able to borrow to pay all or a significant portion of their tuition fees and that a similar
percentage of students receive stipends. During phase L the program will support: (i) the establishment of
a student loan organization; (ii) the creation of the legal and institutional conditions required for the
operation of a student loan system; (iii) training of personnel responsible for operating the new system; and
(iv) feasibility studies. During phase II, the program will support: (i) the operation of the new student loan
system; and (ii) dissemination activities related to the student loan system; (iii) monitoring and evaluation
activities related to its operation. During phase IIL the program will support activities aimed at evaluating,
monitoring, consolidating and sustaining the operation of the Student Loan System. The activities funded
under this component would be technical assistance to develop the loan program, training of staff
responsible for operating the new system, feasibility studies, impact evaluation and monitoring studies,
- 51 -



equipment, and partial funding of the student loan program, most probably in the form of a loan guarantee
to private banks.
Project Component 5 - US$5.59 million
Component 5. To improve the quality of teaching and learning in higher education the program
contemplates the establishment of a Competitive Teaching and Management System for Higher
Education to improve the quality of teaching and learning in Bulgarian higher education institutions
as well as their internal management structures. The proposed system would invite proposals from
higher education officials and academic staff to: develop modem and professional management structure
and systems; encourage more scholarship work as opposed to research; encourage the reform of the
curriculum and academic programs of higher education institutions; promote early retirement of targeted
academic staff; and encourage upgrading of the skills and knowledge of new academic staff. During phase
I, the program will support: (i) the establishment of the Board of the Competitive Teaching and
Management System for Higher Education; (ii) the creation of the legal and institutional infrastructure
required for the operation of the System; (iii) capacity building activities related to making the system
operational; and (iv) invitation to a first round of submissions of proposals to the System. During phase II,
the program will support: (i) providing grants to HE institutions on a competitive basis; (ii) evaluating and
monitoring the impact of the grants; and (iii) providing technical assistance and training to HE institutions
for the preparation of proposals.  During phase III, the program will support activities aimed at
consolidating and sustaining the operation of the System. In addition to providing most of the financing for
the System, the principal activities to be financed by this sub-component would be technical assistance,
feasibility studies to support the design, evaluation studies of the operation of the grant system, training of
staff responsible for operating the new system, training of university staff interested in presenting proposals
to the system, study visits to learn from countries that have similar systems operation, equipment necessary
for the establishment and operation of the Board and staff of the Competitive Teaching and Management
System for Higher Education, dissemination materials, seminars and other consultation related activities,
and grants to institutions.
Project Component 6 - US$0.67 million
Component 6. Strengthen MES capacity for project management and communication. The program
contemplates the establishment of a small project coordination unit (PCU) to monitor and provide support
to lines units within MES during project implementation and a higher education steering committee (HESC)
to coordinate the implementation of the different higher education sub-components. The PCU unit would
be responsible for providing project implementation support in the areas of: (i) procurement; (ii) financial
management; (iii) project monitoring; (iv) dissemination and communications; and (v) management training
to the different MES units responsible for carrying out the different activities of the project. The PCU
would also be responsible for assisting MES management in preparing and executing a general
communication strategy for the project. The immediate objective of this strategy would be to facilitate the
implementation of individual project components. The strategy will include a public information campaign
and will be based on MES' "vision" and policy objectives for the education sector. The communication
strategy would also help MES introduce change and empower other actors in the system such as inspectors,
school directors and local education officers. The activities funded under this component include, technical
assistance, equipment, software, dissemination seminars, communications events and meetings, production
of information and dissemination materials, and communication campaigns.
- 52 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BULGARIA: Education Modernization Project
Local       Foreign        Total
PM_   coo                                 US $mlllort   US $rillion    US $million
1. Teaching and learning in general education.              3.70          0.84          4.54
2. Resource management in general education.                 2.95          2.38         5.33
3. Resource allocation in higher education institutions.     0.22          0.19         0.41
4. Establishment of student loan system and reform of the    0.08          0.12         0.20
stipends system.
5. Creation of CTMS and strengthening of HE institutions.    3.07          2.15         5.22
6. Strengthening of MES capacity for project management.     0.26          0.36         0.62
Total Baseline Cost                                         10.28          6.04         16.32
Physical Contingencies                                      0.66          0.35          1.01
Price Contingencies                                        0.62           0.34         0.96
Total Project Costs               11.56          6.73         18.29
Front-end fee                     0.14          0.14
Total Financing Required               11.56          6.87         18.43
Local        Foreign        Total
roject cost By CN0_go_y                 US $mfilon    US $mill_n    US $mniion
Goods                                                         2.38           2.55          4.93
Works                                                         0.05           0.00          0.05
Services                                                      1.65           1.66          3.31
Training                                                      4.11           0.64          4.75
Competitive Teaching and Management System for Higher         2.80           1.88          4.68
Education
Recurrent Costs                                               0.57           0.00          0.57
Total Project Costs     11.56           6.73         18.29
Front-end fee                     0.14          0.14
Total Financing Required      11.56           6.87         18.43
- 53 -



Annex 4
BULGARIA: Education Modernization Project
Economic Analysis
This project has two major components focusing on (1) primary and secondary (schools) education and
(2) higher education respectively. These two components are largely independent of each other and the
economic impact of each has, therefore, been considered separately.
1.     Primary and Secondary Education
1.1    Background
Bulgaria's education system was developed in the context of a strictly-controlled command economy
and, therefore, contained considerable inflexibility which made it ill-suited to provide the educational
basis for the work force of a dynamic market economy. In addition, demographic change has resulted
in a significant fall in the school-age population and a geographical redistribution of that population.
Finally, budgetary constraints have resulted in a fall in the real resources available to education.
One of the outcomes is a high student-staff ratio relative to other European countries which are much
richer than Bulgaria. This has been a result partly of a widespread belief in Bulgaria (as elsewhere)
that small class sizes improve student performance (in spite of the research evidence which generally
fails to support that belief). The high student-staff ratio is also a result of the "norms" which are legal
requirements on schools which determine the number of classes, the number of teachers per class, the
number of hours to be worked by teachers, the number of hours for which students were to be taught
and the curriculum to be covered. Because the funding of municipalities from the central budget
depended more on the number of classes than on the number of students, there has been an incentive for
municipalities to permit classes below the legal minimum size. Since teacher hours were lower than
student hours resulting in teacher-class ratios considerably in excess of 1, these norms contributed to a
rise in the student-staff ratio particularly in the face of falling school rolls. The regulations conceming
these norms (Regulations 3 and 5 referring to the number of teachers per class and the number of
classes) have recently been relaxed for schools with delegated budgets. MES is planning to open
discussions with the Trades Unions in order to extend this relaxation. In addition, there are plans to
give more weight to student numbers in municipality funding.
The economic difficulties of Bulgaria have been reflected in decreasing resources for Bulgarian schools.
Education's share of GDP has fallen from 6.1 percent in 1992 to 3.2 percent in 1998. While the
budgeted amount for 1999 was 3.6 percent and is planned to be 3.8 percent for 2000 to 2002, this falls
far short of the EU average of 4.3 percent. There would be no scope for any savings generated by this
project to reduce the overall expenditure.
For more detail, see D L Adkins, "School Finance in Bulgaria in an Era of Educational Reform",
Paper prepared for the World Bank, June 1999.
- 54 -



This point is emphasized by the current level of teachers' salaries which are now very low and, in the
medium term, will make it difficult for Bulgaria to retain and recruit effective teachers. The average
salary for a Headteacher is now approximately US$120 per month (or about the average earnings) and
that for a teacher approximately US$70 per month (approximately 60 percent of average earnings).
1.2    Objectives
The primary and secondary education component of this program will provide for a major reorientation
of the Bulgarian education system consistent with Bulgaria's overall development policy objective of
transforming its economy into a modern market economy. The education system will play its part by
providing new entrants to the labor force with a set of skills needed for a flexible workforce.
1.3    Project Activities
The Ministry of Education and Science and the World Bank have considered how best this project can
contribute to the necessary transformation of the education system.  Through sector work and
structured dialogue, it was agreed that certain activities were a prerequisite for the achievement of a
more efficient and effective education system.  These activities are: (a) per capita funding of
municipalities' budgets by MES; and (b) the removal of existing norms. These changes will contribute
to efficiency gains by allowing full benefits to be obtained from the optimization of the schools network
and the introduction delegated school budgets by allowing schools and municipalities to make best use
of their resources by varying the input mix - in particular, by decreasing the overall teacher-student
ratio. Per capita funding of schools and the relaxation of some existing norms for some schools have
already been accomplished and the way is now clear for the full benefits of the reforms envisaged under
these sub-components to be reaped particularly in the context of MES' commitment to further reform.
The effectiveness and efficiency of the education system is to be further supported by improving the
capacity of MES and its agencies to play a leading policy role while delegating the responsibility for the
day-to day management of the network to municipalities and schools. The development of an education
management information system (EMIS) will also contribute to an enhancement of MES' policy
capacity. The benefits from these sub-components would be the increased relevance of the education
system. By devolving responsibility for day-to-day operations while enhancing MES' role in the
development and implementation of national policy, the education system would be better fitted to
satisfy the demands of society by supporting the development of democracy and participation.
Further benefits are expected from the introduction of a new curriculum and a national testing system
supported by the establishment of the National Curriculum Council and National Assessment Unit and
by developing the in-service training system. These sub-components will result in a more efficient
education system by producing better-educated graduates with competencies which are more relevant to
the new market economy.
1.4   Indicators of Economic Impact
Indicators of the economic impact of the project have been derived by: (i) estimating the potential net
recurrent cost savings or additional expenditure generated by the project; (ii) assessing the potential
benefits generated by the project; and (ii) estimating the internal rate of return to the project making
very modest assumptions about the gain in labor productivity to be generated by the program.
- 55 -



1.4.1 Estimating Net Recurrent Cost Savings/Additional Expenditure
Recurrent Cost Savings
Two sub-components - Delegated Budgets and Optimization of the School Network - are expected to
lead to cost savings.
Delegated Budgets
The pilot project financed by the EU Phare Programme was shown to generate efficiency gains - both
from using inputs more efficiently and generating extra income. The gains within the four pilot
municipalities were estimated to be about US$500 per year per school in a situation where the norms
were still in force. Therefore, a conservative estimate of the expected gains from the national extension
envisaged in this program is US$1.8 million per year when all schools are managing their delegated
budgets. These gains are expected to start at a low level of US$140,000 in 2001 rising to the full
amount by 2006. (See Table 1.)
Optimization of the School Network
An investigation by MES of the potential for saving in one municipality show annual recurrent cost
savings of approximately US$12,000 per school closed. These savings are a result of an overall
reduction in the number of staff (teaching and non-teaching) even in the absence of savings due to the
relaxation of class norms. MES has calculated that there are currently at least 500 schools eligible for
closure. Therefore, a conservative estimate of the potential recurrent cost savings would be US$6
million per year. In the first years of the program, these cost savings would be offset by the severance
payments made to redundant staff. Again these savings will increase over time as the program rolls
out. (See Table 1.)
Additional Recurrent Expenditures
MES is likely to incur additional recurrent expenditures from three sub-components of the program: the
introduction of the new curriculum; the introduction of testing at grades 4, 8 and 12; and the new
arrangements for in-service teacher training.
The introduction of new teaching methods required by the new curriculum will entail recurrent costs on
new teaching materials of about US$5 per head. Since the new curriculum will use less didactic
teaching methods, there will be an increased need for consumables (for example, paper, crayons, glue
and so on) for the students. This will entail additional recurrent expenditures of almost US$5 million
per year in the medium term when the program is complete.
Similarly, national testing will cost US$5 per test administered. This will involve additional recurrent
cost expenditures of US$1 million per year.
In-service teacher training will cost MES an additional US$10 per teacher per year. This will involve
additional recurrent expenditures of US$940,000 allowing for the reduction in teachers as a result of
the optimization program.
- 56 -



Net Inpact on Rec urrent Expenditures
Table I shows that, in the medium term, the program will reduce net recurrent expenditures. However,
because of the phasing of program activities, there may be expected to be a net increase in recurrent
expenditures in the early years. In 2002, there is expected to be a net increase in expenditures of
US$780,000; in 2003 a net increase in expenditures of almost US$3 million; in 2004, a net increase of
US$3 8 million. The increase in expenditures is expected to reach its peak in 2005 at US$4.5 million;
thereafter falling to US$2.9 million, US$2.5 million, US$1.3 million and US$301,000 in 2006, 2007,
2008 and 2009 respectively. However, these increases are offset to some extent by a net saving in
recurrent expenditures of almost US$1 million per year from 2010.
The net impact is estimated on the basis of pilots undertaken when the norms were still in place. The
additional savings from delegated budgets and the optimization of the school network in the current
environment are, therefore, likely to be considerably higher. The student-teacher ratio in Bulgaria is
currently 18 and therefore considerable scope for savings exist as Bulgarian schools move towards
international best practice in terms of teacher-student ratios particularly in the context of demographic
change. These savings offer an opportunity to MES to restructure salary payments and, in particular,
to increase teacher salaries in the medium term in order to retain and attract effective teachers. This
strategy will help to ensure that the overall decline in teacher numbers is managed in such a way as to
sustain an effective teaching force to enhance standards of teaching.
More generally, it will be important that a considerable proportion of the savings be retained by the
schools - or at least by the municipalities - in which they were generated in order to maintain incentives
for such savings.
1.4.2   Assessing the Potential Benefits
Since this program provides for structural change, the traditional cost benefit analysis is inappropriate
since this structural change is expected to result in a different set of relative prices; indeed, the very
purpose of the transformation is to effect such a change in relative prices. Moreover, we have no
reliable information by which the effects could be estimated. However, the overall aim of the program
is to support the transformation of the economy in order to inter alia improve labor productivity
primatily through the establishment of the Curriculum Council and the National Assessment Unit and
developing the in-service training system. Although we have no way of estimating these benefits a
priori, we would expect them to be considerable.
These benefits would be reaped by means of an increase in labor productivity. As well as the overall
benefits to society, this increase in productivity may be expected to produce an increase in tax revenues
for the general budget - though not for the budget of MES. No attempt has been made here to estimate
the impact on the budget because the tax structure cannot be expected to remain unchanged throughout
the restructuring.
Another potential benefit, which has not been taken into account, is the potential for improved
perfonnance in higher education of the students who have benefited from the schools reform. The
interaction between the reform at the primary and secondary and that at the tertiary level is a complex
matter and not attempt has been made to deal with it here.
- 57 -



1.4.3  The Internal Rate of Return
The savings to be generated by this program are expected to be considerable even on very modest
assumptions. In addition, the improvements in efficiency and effectiveness generated by this project are
expected to result in considerable gains in labor productivity. As set out above, we have no way of
estimating the value of these gains. Therefore, we examine what productivity gains would be required
in order to achieve a target rate of return of 10 percent for this component.
Table 2 shows the economic costs and benefits estimated for this component assuming that all three
proposed phases are undertaken. With the once-and-for-all increase in labor productivity of 2.65
percent for each labor force entrant' caused by the restructuring of the education system assumed in
Table 2, the intemal rate of return on this project could be expected to be 10 percent. This increase in
labor productivity is a very modest assumption about the impact of radical restructuring.
2.     Higher Education
2.1    Background
The Bulgarian Higher Education sector has suffered from similar problems as those affecting the
Primary and Secondary Education sectors. Particular issues which have been identified have been:
the separation of the decisions about the funding of higher education institutions (HEls), which
has been the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, from the decision about the allocation of student
places, which is the responsibility of MES;
The intemal rate of return is defined as the discount which sets the net present value of an investment
equal to zero. The internal rate of return, i, is calculated by solving the equation:
S(Bt - Ct)/(1+i)t = 0
t
where Bt is the total benefits in year t and Ct is the total costs in year t.
That is, an upward shift of the earnings function by 2.65 percent.
For more detail, see: J J Brunner, "Higher Education: Policy Design and System Management", Paper
prepared for the World Bank, March 5, 1999; and Ministry of Education and Science, "Higher
Education Reform Project", Sofia, January 2000.
courses and teaching methods which were unresponsive to the needs of the new market economy;
outdated and inferior facilities, equipment and libraries;
inadequate quality assurance systems;
* increasingly constrained resources because of an increase in student numbers without a
corresponding increase in resources;
- 58 -



a number of inefficiently small institutions;
* inequity of finance where some students paid tuition fees and receive no contributions towards their
maintenance costs while others continued to obtain their tuition without paying fees while also
receiving stipends to contribute towards maintenance costs.
These issues may be summarized under three headings:
inadequate quality of teaching and learning process and management of institutions;
inefficiency and ineffectiveness in resource allocation policies;
difficulties in maintaining accessibility.
MES has recognized these issues and has already started on a process of reforn which has involved:
increasing the autonomy of HEIs;
updating the legal framework;
introducing a uniform system of tuition fees.
As a result of these changes, degrees are now more clearly defined, the system has become more
user-friendly, more demanding and more consistent with international practice. However, MES
recogrnizes that much remains to be done in order to develop the HE system corresponding to the values
and traditions of Bulgarian society. This project is part of the ongoing reform process.
2.2    Project Objectives
The overall objective of the higher education components of the project is to improve the quality and
relevance of Higher Education while retaining accessibility and increasing equity.
Speci,fic objectives are to:
improve the efficiency and effectiveness of resource allocation in the Higher Education sector;
retain accessibility of HE in Bulgaria;
improve the quality of teaching and learning processes and the management of HEIs.
2.3    Project Activities
2.3.1  Improving the Efficiency and Effectiveness in Allocating Resources in the Higher
Education Sector
A Resource Allocation Committee (RAC) will be established within MES which will be responsible for:
*      developing cost and resource profiles of each HEI in order to test the distribution effects of
- 59 -



different funding formulae and to provide benchmark information in developing management
infomnation systems for each HEI;
*     merging the processes for allocating seats and resources;
*     introducing a system of normative costs for determining allocations;
sponsoring a consultative process on a price-based allocation system.
In addition, a consultative process will be established to consider longer-term reforms in allocation
policies to improve the accountability and increase the autonomy of HEIs.
2.3.2  RetainingAccessibility of HE in Bulgaria
This component of the project will create a new student loan and stipend system by:
expanding the availability of student loans by considering a variety of options for the
development of the current system;
reforming the existing system of stipends by introducing a single set of criteria (including both
performance and social indicators) at the national level to be used together with criteria set by
the individual HEls in order to allocate stipends;
sustaining the implementation of uniform tuition fees.
2.3.3  Improving the Quality of the Teaching and Learning Process and the Management of
Institutions
This component has a number of elements as follows:
*     the creation of a Competitive Teaching and Management System (CTMSHE) which will
operate for at least six years and will provide funding on a competitive basis for innovative
projects to improve teaching or management in HEls;
For more detail, see Ministry of Education and Science, "Higher Education Reform Project", Sofia,
January 2000.
strengthening intemal quality assurance procedures;
strengthening the intemal management capacity of HEIs.
2.4   Indicators of Economic Impact
2.4.1  Impact on Recurrent Costs and Expenditures
This component of the project is structured so that there is intended to be no impact on recurrent costs
and expenditures other than those directly attributable to the project. The budgets and expenditures of
HEls as a whole will remain unchanged although a substantial reallocation between them is expected.
-60 -



2.4.1 Assessing the Potential Benefits
This component is expected to have considerable impact on the labor productivity of HE graduates.
However, as with the Primary and Secondary Education components, since this effect is expected to be
part of the overall structural change, there is no easy way of predicting the size of this productivity
effect. Therefore, again we have estimated the internal rate of return to this component using modest
assunmptions about the size of the productivity gain.
2.4.3 The Internal Rate of Return
Again, as with the Primary and Secondary Education components, we examine what productivity gains
would be required in order to achieve a target rate of return of 10 percent for this component.
Table 3 shows the economic costs and benefits estimated for this component. Since there is intended to
be no net impact on recurrent expenditures, the only costs are project costs while the only benefits are
the increased productivity of HE graduates. A once-and-for-all increase in labor productivity of 1
percent for HE graduates will result in the achievement of the target rate of return of 10 percent.
3.     Conclusions
For a project such as this where the objective is to assist in the transformation of a transition economy,
traditional cost-benefit analysis is of limited usefulness. Cost-benefit analysis was developed in order
to deal with situations in which relative prices are expected to remain stable or in which changes in
relative prices are fairly straightforward to estimate.
The case of a transition economy is very different. If the transformation strategy is successful, then the
resulting economy will bear limited resemblance to the original and we have little information and few
analyl.ical tools which will help in forecasting the result.
However, investment decisions still have to be made and it is important that they take into account the
inforriation that is available. Therefore, this analysis has taken the framework of cost-benefit analysis
but has recognized that it is not possible to forecast the labor market effects of these far-reaching
reforms of the educational system.
Thus, it cannot answer the usual question asked in investment decisions: what is the expected rate of
return of this investment? Rather, it sets out to answer the question: if we have a target rate of return
of 10 percent, what would be the increase in labor productivity resulting from the project necessary to
achieve it? It should be noted that the lower this required increase, the better the project.
The answer to this new question is 2.65 percent in the case of the primary and secondary components
and I percent in the case of the HE component. Those taking the investment decision need to decide
whether it is reasonable to expect that such an increase would result from the structural change to be
delivered by the project.
- 61 -



TABLE 1: BUDGETARY IMPACT OF EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT, 2000-2020
Primary and Secondary Education Component
(US $000s)
2000 2001 2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007 2008  2009  2010
Additional Recurrent Expenditure
New Curriculum (1)                       1,437  2,873  4,310  5,747  4,853 4,853 4,853 4,853  4,853
Testing (2)                                             20   400   769 1,128 1,078 1,078  1,078
In-service teacher training (3)                  940   940   940   940   940  940   940   940
1. Total Additional Expenditure           1,437  3,813  5,270  7,087  6,562 6,921 6,871 6,871  6,871
Recurrent Cost Savings
School Optimisation (4)                   300   300   600  1,300  1,850 2,650 3,750 4,750  6,000
Delegated Budgets (5)               140  350   560   910  1,260  1,820 1,820 1,820 1,820  1,820
2. Total Cost Savings                 140  650   860  1,510  2,560  3,670 4,470 5,570 6,570  7,820
Net Budgetary Savings (2-1)           140  -787 -2,953 -3,760 -4,527 -2,892 -2,451 -1,301  -301   949
2011  2012 2013  2014  2015  2016  2017  2018  2019  2020
Additional Recurrent Expenditure
New Curriculum               4,853 4,853 4,853  4,853  4,853  4,853  4,853 4,853 4,853 4,853
Testing                      1,078 1,078 1,078  1,078  1,078  1,078  1,078 1,078 1,078 1,078
In-service teacher training    940  940  940   940   940   940   940   940  940   940
1. Total Additional Expenditure   6,871 6,871 6,871  6,871  6,871  6,871  6,871 6,871 6,871 6,871
Recurrent Cost Savings
School Optimisation          6,000 6,000 6,000  6,000  6,000  6,000  6,000 6,000 6,000 6,000
Delegated Budgets            1,820 1,820 1,820  1,820  1,820  1,820  1,820 1,820 1,820 1,820
2. Total Cost Savings         7,820 7,820 7,820  7,820  7,820  7,820  7,820 7,820 7,820 7,820
Net Budgetary Savings (2-1)     949  949  949   949   949   949   949   949   949   949
Notes:
(1) It is assumed that the new curriculum will require teaching and learning materials costing $5 per student per year.
(2) The cost of testing is calculated to be $5 per test administered.
(3) In-service teacher training is calculated to cost $10 per teacher per year.
(4) Potential savings are calculated to be $500 per year per school.
(5) Potential savings are estimated to be $12,000 per year for each school closed. It is estimated that there are 500
schools eligible for closure.
- 62 -



TABLE 2: COSTS AND BENEFITS OF EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT, 2000 - 2020
Primary and Secondary Education Component
(US W;OOs)
2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010
Project Costs (1)
World Bank & Govemment Co-
finan,cing                           3,644  4,038  4,874  5,879  5,432  5,249  1,919  1,919  1,919
Recurrent Costs borne by MES
New Curriculum                           1,437  2,873  4,310  5,747  4,853  4,853  4,853  4,853  4,853
Testing                                                  20   400   769  1,128  1,078  1,078  1,078
In-service teacher training                      940   940   940   940   940   940   940   940
Total Costs                          3,644  5,475  8,687 11,149 12,519 11,810  8,839  8,789  8,789  6,871
Project Benefits
Recurrent Expenditure Savings
School Optimisation                        300   300   600  1,300  1,850  2,650  3,750  4,750  6,000
Delegated Budgets                    140   350   560   910  1,260  1,820  1,820  1,820  1,820  1,820
Increased Labor Productivity (2)                                      470   940  1,420  1,899  3,564
Total Benefits                        140   650   860  1,510  2,560  4,140  5,410  6,990  8,469 11,384
2011  2012  2013  2014  2015  2016  2017  2018  2019  2020
Project Costs
Would Bank & Govemment Co-financing
Recurrent Costs bome by MES
New Curriculum                    4,853  4,853  4,853  4,853  4,853  4,853  4,853  4,853  4,853  4,853
Testing                            1,078  1,078  1,078  1,078  1,078  1,078  1,078  1,078  1,078  1,078
In-service teacher training         940   940   940   940   940   940   940   940   940   940
Total Costs                          6,871  6,871  6,871  6,871  6,871  6,871  6,871  6,871  6,871  6,871
Project Benefits
Recurrent Expenditure Savings
School Optimisation                6,000  6,000  6,000  6,000  6,000  6,000  6,000  6,000  6,000  6,000
Delegated Budgets                  1,820  1,820  1,820  1,820  1,820  1,820  1,820  1,820  1,820  1,820
Increased Labor Productivity (1)   5,228  6,675  7,403  9,945 12,487 14,654 16,821 19,550 22,280 24,967
Total Benefits                      13,048 14,495 15,223 17,765 20,307 22,474 24,641 27,370 30,100 32,787
Note:
(1) Project Management and Loan Front-end Fee allocated to these components on a pro rata basis.
(2) Once-and-for-all increase in labor productivity of 2.65% applied to cohorts of labor force entrants who have
experienced the new curriculum throughout their school life. Older cohorts have had the productivity increase
applied pro rata according to the proportion of their school life spent under the new curriculum.
- 63 -



TABLE 3: COSTS AND BENEFITS OF EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT, 2000 - 2020
Higher Education Component
(US $000s)
2000     2001     2002 2003 2004 2005  2006  2007  2008           2009  2010
Project Costs (1) (2)
World Bank & Government Co-financing            781     5,108 6,904 7,102 7,307  7,518  2,748  2,748    2,748
Total Costs                                       781    5.108 6,904 7,102 7,307  7,518  2,748  2,748    2,748
Project Benefits
Increased Labor Productivity (3)                                      79  317   713  1,267  1,980    2,851  3,881
Total Benefits                                                          79  317   713  1,267  1,980    2.851  3,881
2011     2012 2013 2014 2015  2016  2017  2018          2019  2020
Project Costs
World Bank & Government Co-financing
Total Costs
Project Benefits
Increased Labor Productivity                   5,069    6,416 7,921 8,713 9,505 10,297 11,089 11.881    12,673 13,465
Total Benefits                                  5,069     6,416 7,921 8,713 9,505 10,297 11,089 11,881    12,673 13,465
Notes:
(1) Project Management and Loan Front-end Fee allocated to these components on a pro rata basis.
(2) Assuming that Phase 3 of the HE component is a similar proportion of Phase 2 expenditure as is the
case for the schools components
(3) Once-and-for-all increase in labor productivity of 1% applied to cohorts of graduate labor force entrants in 2013 who are assumed to have
experienced the full benefits of the improved He system. The cohort entering the labor force in 2004 have been assumed to have obtianed
l0% of the final gain; the cohort entering in 2005 is assumed to have gained 20% of the final gain; and so on.
-64 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BULGARIA: Education Modernization Project
Years Ending
in US$ million, Project Year I ending 2001
Year 1    Year 2    Year3      Year 4      Year 5    Year 6      Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           3.4        6.9       7.5        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.1        0.2        0.3        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          3.5        7.1        7.8       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0
Front-end fee    0.1        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              3.6        7.1        7.8       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   2.9       5.5        6.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 0.7       1.5        1.8        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Central                                      0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial                                   0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers                                   0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries                         0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                                          0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                                          0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                                          0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                                          0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                                          0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     3.6        7.0        7.8       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
The Project becomes effective by December 1, 2000.
Expenditures are costed over a three year period.
The Loan Closing date is March 31, 2004.
- 65 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BULGARIA: Education Modernization Project
Procurement
Procurement of goods and Works will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised up to January 1999). Services
would be carried out in accordance with the Bank's published Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised up to January 1999). The project
elements, their estimated cost and procurement methods, are summarized in table A. Other procurement
information and prior review thresholds are given Table B. The General Procurement Notice will be
published in August 2000. The Procurement launch work-shop is planned to be conducted in October 2000.
Goods (US$6.93 million): Goods to be financed under the Loan include: office equipment,
computers, off-the-shelf software, furniture, materials, dissemination of mass media materials, vehicles,
and equipment for reproduction of examinations. Contracts estimated to cost above US$100,000 would be
procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Printing of educational materials
each estimated to cost US$250,000 or less up to an aggregate of about US$400,000 million will be
procured through National Competitive Bidding. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000 may
be procured under International Shopping (IS) procedures (total aggregate amount of US$1.5 million).
Contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 may be contracted through National Shopping (NS)
procedures (total aggregate amount of US $1.3 million). Contracts for books, technical journals,
training materials, audio visual materials, computer software, including annual upgrading and
licensing arrangements, copyrights, translation and reprinting rights and other proprietary items up
to an aggregate amount of US$50,000 may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers,
publishers, copyright owners or other authorized distributor, subject to the approval of the Bank on a
case-by-case basis. As an altemative to International and National Shopping, goods could be
procured through Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) of the United Nations
Development Programme in accordance with provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Works (US$0.5 million): Civil works under the project include refurbishing of office space to be
occupied by the Administration of the Curriculum Resource Center, the Assessment Unit and the PCU.
Works estimated to cost US$50,000 or less up to an aggregate of US$500,000 million shall be procured
under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and
resources to complete the contract successfully.
Consulting Services and Training (US$9.24 million): Services to be financed under the Loan
include consulting services; training courses, fellowships, and study tours; research studies and surveys.
Several Bank-financed contracts for In-service training, Improving Quality of Primary and Secondary
Education and Higher Education Reform would be awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-Based
Selection (QCBS) procedures (US$7.39 million). For assignments of "Writing Programme of Study"
- 66 -



and "Preparing Student Assessment Instruments", for which no suitable alternatives from private
sector consultarLts are available due to the requirements of language and knowledge of local
standards, and participation of government-owned universities is critical to the objective of the
project, the selection of the consultant will be done, on the basis of Quality-Based Selection
(QB,S), among ihe B3ulgarian Universities (total aggregate amount of US$500,000 million). The
institutions, for training, conducting seminars, and for fellowships, will be selected on the basis of
an analysis of the most suitable program of training offered by the institutions/Universities,
availability of services, period of training and reasonableness of the cost (total aggregate amount
of US$500,000 million). Project audits and contracts for training estimated to cost less than US$200,000
or less per contract up to an aggregate of US$500,000 million may be procured under contracts, based on
Leasit-cost Seleclion. Individual consultants would be contracted in accordance with procedures for
Selection of Individual Consultants (IC) according to the Bank Guidelines and based on the comparison
of ClVs (US$400,000 million). The individual consultants will be selected on the basis of comparison of
qualifications among those expressing interest in the assignment in response to advertisements of the
positions in a newspaper with national circulation. In addition, the qualifications and experience of
procurement experts to be fumded by the project will be satisfactory to the Bank.
Competilive 'reaching and Management System for Higher Education (US$4.68 million):
Through yearly competitions, the systerm will co-finance projects for the improvement of management,
teaching and learning conditions in HE institutions. Winning HE institutions will sign separate sub-project
agreements with the MES for the implementation of grants expected to range between US $30,000 and
US$2 00,000. The agreements will indicate how each HE institution will utilize the grant for the provision
of equipment, inforrnation resources, staff development and faculty training, and management
improvement, in accordance with their strategic plans. This will involve procurement of laboratory
equipment, books. and computers, minor repairs to laboratory buildings, hiring of consultants, and training
for staff Since the items to be procured will be small in value, most of the items for goods (aggregated
about US$2.0 million) will be procured either following national or international shopping. The works
contracts (aggregated about US$290,000 million), which will be also small in value will be contracted
following minor works procedure mentioned for the rest of the project. Individual consultants for TA
(aggregated about US$450,000) will be hired based on comparison of CVs and identified institutions will
be selected for fellowships (aggregated about US$730,000 million). However, due to the nature of the
grants and indiviclual procurement time schedules, the aggregated amounts indicated in the tables do not
include funds assigned to the Competitive Teaching and Management System for Higher Education. The
threshold for the method of procurement of goods and works will be same as for the rest of the project.
Non-Bank financed (NBF) Recurrent Costs (US$0.57 million): Incremental recurrent costs
cover incremental operating costs and incremental staff salaries for the Education Policy Directorate and
the Assessment Unit at the central MES level, the FMSE Center, the Higher Education Steering Committee
(HESC), the Student Loan Agency (SLA), the Executive Council of the CTMSHE. The Government of
Bulgaria will finance all recurrent costs.
Review of Procurement Decisions: Procurement of works, goods, and services will be carried out
according to the agreed procurement plan described in Table A and will be subject to the reviews noted in
Table B of this Annex.
A Procurement Plan, including samples of letters of invitation, terms of reference for the first year
of implementation, will be elaborated.
- 67 -



Standard Documents for national procurement and contracting of consultants will be developed by
the Project Coordinating Unit for the use of the project and approved by the Bank before the first request
for proposals. Participating HE Institution will follow procurement procedures detailed in an Operational
Manual, satisfactory to the Bank.
Action Plan for Strengthening Capacity of the PCU:
The following action plan is recommended to build Ministry of PCU's procurement
capacity:
1.    One additional full time Procurement Specialist with experience in public procurement and
knowledgeable on the World Bank procurement procedures should be hired to assist the PCU in
implementing procurement activities (planning, time scheduling, monitoring and reporting), for
the project and to provide in-house training to the current two Procurement Staff in PCU. The
Procurement Specialist shall be identified as early as possible and hired not later than the date of
Effectiveness for this Project.
2.    The current two procurement staff of the PCU should go for the next available 4-week
procurement training course offered by ILO in Turin, Italy, or the course provided by Crown
Agents, in U.K. and also to participate in the next procurement workshops conducted by the
Bank, in the Region for Borrower Implementing Agency staff.
3.    A detailed week long seminar on procurement shall be held, at the project launch
workshop and later during implementation, for the beneficiaries/end user, staff, who will
participate in bid evaluation. Training shall also include the preparation of bidding documents for
each type of procurement methods proposed in the loan agreement..
Procurement Capacity Assessment
Summary of Findings and Actions
Assess          Risk
ment        Assessment
Item Assessed                                Satis-          Major Weaknesses
Null  Poor    Fair   factory                  Low
Ave.
HighActions
Proposed
Completion Date
(a) Legal Aspects
(i) Laws & Regulations                      X                               X
(ii) NCB Procedures                                   X                     X
(iii) Internal codes and manuals                      X                     X
- 68 -



(b) Proc. Cycle Mgmt.                                                The PMU proposed to implement the
proposed project has limited experience in
administering Bank financed procurement
(preparing bid documents, inviting bids,
evaluating bids, awarding contracts and
managing contracts, handling complaints
etc.)One additional Procurement Staff to
be hired ;Training to be arranged and
obtain help from experienced PIUs of
other ongoing projectsStaff to be hired not
later than project effectiveness date;,
Turin training before end of 2000.
(i) General handling                                                                 x
(ii) Procurement planning                                                            x
(iii) Preparation of documents       X                            XXHire short term consultants/architect to
prepare specification,/detailed
drawings.According to procurement time
__________________________                ___________  ________                schedule.
(iv) Management of process           X                                XThe Procurement Specialist to be
_______        hiredBy project effectiveness
(v) Bid evaluation                      X                                            x
(vi) Contract award                     X                                            X
(vii) Preparation and signing of        X                                            X
contracts
(viii) Contract management              X                                            X
(c) Organization and
Fuictions
(i) Organization of unit and            X                                            x
functions
(ii) Internal manuals and     X                                                      X
instructions
(d) Support and Control
Svstems
(i) Auditing                            x                                            X
(ii) Legal assistance                   x                                            X
(iii) Technical and administrative      x                                            X
controls
(iv) Code of ethics                   _                                              X
(v) Anticorruption initiatives                              X                        X
(eLRecord keeping
(i) Public notices                      x                                            X
(ii) Bidding documents        x                                                      X
(iii) Bid opening information  x                                                     X
(iv) Bid evaluation reports   x                                                      X
(v) Formal appeals and outcomes x                                                    X
(vi) Signed contract documents          X   X                                        X
(vii) Claims and dispute      x                                                      X
resolution records
(viii) Comprehensive          x                                                      X
disbursement data
- 69 -



(f) Staffing                                    X                XProcurement Specialist to be hired.By
effectiveness of the project.
(g) General Procurement                         X                                 x
Environment
(i) Promoting a culture of                      X                                 x
accountability
(ii) Reputation of procurement                  X                                 x
corps
(iii) Salary structure                 X                                XNeeds periodical review
(iv) Freedom from political           X                          XNo contract to be awarded without PMU's
interference                                                               approval.lmmediate
(v) Existence of experienced and  x                             XAII staff need additional training.December
capable staff                                                                    2000
(vi) Clear written standards and    x                                             x
delegation of authority
(vii) Sound budget/financial        x                                             X
systems
(h) Private Sector Assessment
(i) General efficiency and                                X                       X
predictability
(ii) Transparency                                         X                       X
(iii) Quality of contract mgmt.                           X                       X
(iv) General reputation                                   X                       x
Prior Review Thresholds Proposed                                            Overall Risk Assessment
Goods US$  100.000 (equivalent)                                                     HighX
Works US$ 50,000 (equivalent)                                                       Average
Consulting US$ 50.000 (equivalent) for firm and US$10,000 for individuals            Low
Post Review Ratio: One in 5 contracts
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 Form prepared by: V.
months (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits). The Vijayaverl(Procurement
supervision mission should include a procurement specialist during the first two Specialist/Accredited staff
years of the work. (However, this is only a recommendation and the budget for assigned to the project)
supervision is not within the control of the Procurement specialist.)
Signature:
Date:
Comments:
Issues to be addressed immediately are
(i) hiring of expatriate procurement specialist knowledgeable in World Bank
procurement procedures to provide in house on the job training to the PMU staff
and to strengthen the procurement unit of the PMU.
(ii) training of the existing staff in the next available course by ILO, Turin, Italy
and other procurement training provided by the bank
- 70 -



The Project is rated as "High Risk" regarding procurement. It is planned to have procurement
supervision twice a year, during implementation.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Methods
Ependiture Category           ICB           NCB            Other          NBF           Total
1. VAIORKS                                                 0.05 2                       0.05
(0.04)                      (0.04)
2. GOODS
a. Computer equipment         2.72                         0.68                          3.40
__________________       (2.18)                         (0.54)                      (2.72)
b. Office equipment           1.00                         0.0641                        1.06
(0.80)                        (0.05)                      (0.85)
c. Furniture                                                                0.05         0.05
(0.00)
d. M[aterials and supplies                   0.37                                        0.37
(0.30)                                     (0.30)
e. Vehicles                                                0.04                          0.04
(0.03)                      (0.03)
3. S:ERVICES
a. Consultants                                             3.25                          3.25
(2.68)                      (2.68)
b. Training seminars, study
tours, fellowships                                         4.81                          4.81
(3.88)                      (3.88)
4. Recurrent Costs
a. Incremental staff salaries                                             0.40           0.40
(0.0)         (0.0)
b. Incremental operational                                                0.17           0.17
Costs                                                                     (0.0)          (0.0)
5. Competitive Teaching                                    3.74           0.94           4.68
and Management System                                      (3.74)         (00)          (3.74)
for ]Higher Education
6. Front-end Fee                                            0.15                         0.15
_  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _                       (0.15)                       0.15
TOTAL PROJECT                 3.72           0.37           12.78          1.56         18.43
(TOTALIBRD)                  (2.98)         (0.30)         (11.11)        (0.0)        (14.39)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2I
Includes small works for civil works.
- 71 -



3'Includes national and international shopping for goods.
4I
Includes national shopping for goods.
51Includes national shopping for goods.
Includes QCBS, individual consultants and hiring of universities.
Includes QCBS and least-cost selection for training, fellowships and seminars.
Includes small works for civil works, national and intemational shopping for goods and individual
consultants and training.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Reviews
ICB         NCB            IS           NS       Other Methods   Remarks
1. Works
Procurement                                                            Small works:
thresholds:                                                            Below
Individual and                                                         US$50,000;
Aggregate                                                              Aggregate
US$500,000
(1)
Prior review                                                            First contract
2. Goods
Procurement       Above US$
thresholds:       100,000
Individual and
Aggregate
Prior Review      All contracts
Procurement                   Printing of
thresholds:                   education
Individual and                materials:
Aggregate                     BelowUS$250,
000 Aggregate
US$400,000
Prior Review                  Contracts over
US$50,000
Procurement                                 Below         Below US$
thresholds:                                 US$ 100,000,  50,000,
Individual and                              Aggregate     Aggregate
Aggregate                                   US$1,500,000 US$1,300,000(
(2)          3)
Prior Review                                First two     First two
contracts    contracts
Procurement                                                            Direct Contract
thresholds:                                                            Aggregate
Individual and                                                         US$50,000
Aggregate
Prior Review                                                           Each contract
- 72 -



QCBS          IC         Least Cost                    Other    Remarks
(training)   (Individual   (Training,                  Methods
National and   Seminars)
International
consultants)
3. Services
Procurement           QCBS
thresholds:         Aggregate
Individual and     US$7,350,00
Aggregate               0
Prior Review      All TOR,
Short Lists,
Qualification,
Evaluations
and all
contracts
Procurement                    Aggregate:
thresholds:                    US$400,000
Individual and
Aggregate
Prior Review                   All TOR, and
contracts,
above
US$10,000
Procurement                                  Below
thresholds:                                  US$200,000
Individual and                               Aggregate
Aggregate                                    US$500,000
Prior Review                                 All TOR, and
contracts above
=________  _  =US$50,000
Procurement
thresholds:                                                                 First five
Individual and                                                              contracts
Aggregate
Post Review        Post review mechanism: Semester random sample reviews during supervision missions;
Reviews in accordance with Para 4 of Appendix 1 of the Bank's Guidelines (about 25 percent
of documentation subject to post review, mainly for shopping, would be reviewed)
(1), (2), (3) The Aggregate amount includes procurement under Competitive Teaching and Management
System for Higher Education.
- 73 -



B-b
Eciuctn Modn7iaz;bon Pnjod
Procum,ent Plan - Yrw I Goods & WorIs
Gwwal procurenunt notice to be putilshd August 30, 2000
categm of ProcurmenEstinated                          Speci"i     Dft Bid       Bwk                                 li    I     - CotC                 -t 
Mtitod                                                                                           Revis epwcuren  Doc    |  R   | D  i  Open E b AE-d. aCtipleion
USOO  tNoticentRprAwd                                                                                 VM
Civt Wcm    ks
I   Retubshment ofl oie spae                                 MincrVWor.s        37608 11     0       11/1500     11/3000    11/30;      12,15Y2Z0   12Z3000     01/lY101    01/30/01    0/3001
2   Refurbishrneottof officespace-PCU                        Mkior,Wcrks         11207 11 30/        11,1S00     11/30/00    '113000    12J125200    12300    0115/01    01/30/01    033001
11 Goods
1 ICBI -xoDmputerdetSeresYear1                                ICB            834445 11/300        11/15/0      '1/30      1Z30/       0230/01     Q33001      431    05/ 301    12/31
2 EMIS Conaer Eqipnsest                                       ICe            247782 11/3000        11/15/0     11/30/00    123000    0230/01      033001    043/01       O30/01    13001
3ComputesslorPCU                                               NS             13913                101Y00      10/2O/00    1/02Y00    1110/00    11!1Y00    11 20&       11/3000    123000
4 Accountisg SrOe PCU                                    Dinre cDntracig       5 619
Office Equip-ent
Soecty soytew                                                  NS              6643                11/300DO    12/05/00    12/10,00    1230 00    01/10W01    0101w01    01?25/01    023W1
6 Office Equnent (tetphoneehanrge, teLphooes, faxes. etc)      NS             48.791               1V130/O10 121                         /020    31101                   01/25/01    02/3001
7Copy achines                                                 GCB            924414 01/3l/01       01/30/01    02/1S0/1    031.v01    O5Y101    07/1S31    0815/01       091Y501    03/3002
8EWp4mentlbrPCU                                                NS              5004                11/30C0                 12/1000    3120O    01/103T1                  01/25/01    02r/301
Futniture
9 OfficeFuniture                                               IS             70968                11/10/00    11,0        11,310     1/121200    12/303    01,15,01    01/30/01      30/01
10 OfeFoeFluwot   -PCU                                         NS              7060                11/3000                 121000    1230/00    01111/01                 0125Y01    023001
M!tis and Pubticabons
11 Design and prating of Matensans ad Publcations (One haera ok  NC8          233815                02/26,01    0315/01    0300/       01 05/300     /300)1    07.001     08a30/01    123/201
cond for Ph;tse 1)
12 Refetence  ateras                                      Direc Contracting    10.796              Nr 200                                                                 Ncr. 2001   No 2003
Vehices
13Milteslr transpotdftafrarem                                   NS             25471                601                     MO/M,1      8    1     9/1iol                  9130/01    12r3001
- 74 -



GNbbes "'   At30,212 ardS Ni  Bpesm                ind'',ID   O, d  oSer12m
*gydPmml1wt                                                                                     fTuh I..=  T  E                     ;A d
0 SwiandTdu
1 Q ^MkI     Tnwlt                                 CBS          1753) 10150)   1130         121510   01M01  a(23Ol   031501   03001   0411501   (61501   M"0
2 FkprFt r PElm (nr                                             370f  10150)   1130)        121503   0130    (20          M(15S1   03301   01501   (1501    63303
3 CIMFOa g &narJrft                                a2B          73156O 10150D   110)    121150    013M01           (23301    t0OV11   M0      V50       9 61501   0330
4 hibr'i J(bawk4tbkPMJ                            kr            331.740
5 aJ-LS   ltra.                                   h4tM*          64.111
7 hcims                                             tfS          1795
9 COrf*ytxCT ruE9i3l Ct1;                                       1a tQ422 10150)   11 Xf     121503   (31501   031501   033301  01501   0N4320    M0M30    0M2
1 TaT~rnWs     tirfr9crl-ahDJ, nq       and        (Xs         1,759996 1015C0    1132(0    12r500   (21501   031501   0320    OV15.0   0O40    O(0    (M3M
2 F.d*,s                                            0t1         133 !1                                                                                 k2In=
3TirUbrtrJSl                                       Ctrr          6723D                                                                                 J2Ml
Saisar        i
1 Sd-d; ..tar brow         g                       ctr           493B4                                                                                n2m1
qhf lMxd brWn I  cfTr*igk            d                                75 r be
lenSzxxaxns:hb      ~         ~          75 



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
L  Expenditure  Ce      0 0 j  0Amunt In Euro million   i     Financing Percetag
Works                                        0.04                          80%
Goods and Vehicles                           3.53               100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Consultants' Services                                                      100%
(a) Under Part A,B,C,D,                    1.86
E.l and F.1 of the Project
(b) Communications Campaign                0.10
under Part F.2 of the Project
(c) CTMS under Part E.2                    0.66
of the Project
Training                                     3.46                           100
Grants under Part E.2                        3.98                           100
Unallocated                                  1.52
Total Project Costs                         15.15
Front-end fee          0.15
Total                                        15.30
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements will be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documents for
expenditures financed on basis of SOEs will be retained by PCU for at least one year after disbursements
and made available for review by Bank representatives and external auditors.
The proposed allocation of Loan proceeds for Phase I is shown in Table C shown above. Disbursements
would not be made for works, goods and services which have been procured from ineligible sources or
which have not been procured according to Bank's procurement and consultants' guidelines.
The Bank Loan for this phase is expected to be fully disbursed over a three year period. All applications to
withdraw from the Loan will be made in accordance with guidelines set out in the bank's disbursement
handbook. All applications to withdraw will be fully documented, except those for training and contracts
not subject to prior review, as shown above, for which reimbursement may be made against certified
statements of expenditures (SOEs).
- 76 -



Disbursement from category 5 (Competitive Teaching and Management System for Higher Education) will
only be authorized after a Project Agreement has been signed between the MES and the respective HE
institution under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and according to the procedures established
in the
Operational Manual of the CTMS.
As noted before, project accounts will be subject to an independent audit for each fiscal year, in accordance
with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank.
Administration of Disbursement:
The MES, through the PCU, will co-ordinate and monitor the overall implementation of different
components of the Project. The PCU will be responsible for the maintenance of a centrally managed
financial management system, including records and accounts, for the preparation of financial statements in
a formnat acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures of all
withdrawal applications in accordance with Bank's guidelines.
Special account:
In order to facilitate Loan disbursement, the Government of Bulgaria will establish a Special Account in
the National Bank or a major commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IBRD to cover
IBRD's share of expenditures. The Authorized Allocation for the Special Account would be Euro
1,000,000. Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly, or
whenever one-third of the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier.
Traditional Disbursement Procedures. Applications for Withdrawal from the Loan will be used to
request: (i) direct payment to third party for amount due; (ii) replenishment to the Special Account; (iii)
reimbursement of payments already made by the Borrower for eligible expenditures; and (iv) application
for Special Commitment.
Annual financial statements of Bank-financed activities will be prepared in accordance with International
Accounting Standards (IAS) and audited in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and
the Bank guidelines on auditing and financial reporting such as The World Bank Financial Accounting
Reporting and Auditing Handbook and Project Financial Management Manual.
- 77 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BULGARIA: Education Modernization Project
Project Schedule                 0 0   07 7   0 ; 00 V Planned                  A    Ial
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       18                            14
First Bank mission (identification)              11/22/98
Appraisal mission departure                      01/15/2000                   02/13/2000
Negotiation s                                    04/10/2000                   07/13/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    12/01/2000
Prepared by:
Bulgarian Ministry of Education and Science working teams
Preparation assistance:
ECSHD Education team
Birks Sinclair & Associates Ltd.
Arthur Hauptman, Higher Education Finance Specialist
Jose Joaquin Brunner, Higher Education Governance and Management Specialist
Quentin Thompson, Education Finance and Management Specialist
Carlos Marquis, Competitive Teaching and Management System for Higher Education Specialist
Tatyana Kmetova, Local Consultant
Vera Dakova, Local Consultant, Organizational Analysis
George Panev, Local Consultant Higher Education
Marco Todorov, Local Consultant Higher Education
Ilia Komarev, Local Consultant Higher Education
Barbara Hunt, Teacher Training Specialist
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality'
Emesto Cuadra                     Education Specialist
Angela Demas                      Operations Analyst
Hong Chen                         Operations Analyst
Nadeja Mochinova                  Program Assistant
Vijay Vijayaverl                  Procurement Specialist
Yingwei Wu                        Procurement Specialist
Eliezer Orbach                    Organizational Analysis Specialist
Richard James                     Financial Analyst
Boryana Gotcheva                  Project Officer - Social Sector
Antonia Viyachka                  Procurement Analyst
Junko Funahashi                   Legal Counsel
Alessandra lorio                  Senior Legal Counsel
Rohit Mehta                       Senior Disbursement Officer
Roque A. Ardon                    Financial Management Specialist
- 78 -



QUALITY ENHANCEMENT
REVIEW TEAM
Ralph Harbison                     Sector Leader SASED
Hena Mukherjee                     Principal Education Specialist
Christine Allison                  Lead Specialist SASED
Stephen Heyneman                  Education Economist
Kathryn Johnston                   Senior Education Specialist
Young Hoy Kimaro                   Economist
- 79 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BULGARIA: Education Modernization Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Higher Education Reform Implementation Plan. Ministry of Education, January 2000.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Country Assistance Strategy, April 1998.
C. Other
1. Ministry of Education and Science, September, 1999. Draft Strategy for the Development of Higher
Education in Bulgaria.
2. Institutional Assessment and Capacity Building of the Ministry of Education and Science, March, 2000
3. Jose Joaquin Brunner, March 1999. Bulgaria Higher Education: Policy Design and System
Management.
4. Pencho Mihnev, George Simidtchiev, Vladimir Atanassov, Antoaneta Voikova, December 1999.
Intergovemmental Roles in the Provision of Education Services in Bulgaria.
5. S. E. McClelland, I.R. Smith, October 1998. Aspects of the Current School Education System in
Bulgaria.
6. Douglas L. Adkins, June 1999. School Finance in Bulgaria in an Era of Education Reform.
7. Olena Marushiakova and Vesselin Popov, December 1999. Study of the Education Situation of Ethnic
Minorities in the Republic of Bulgaria.
*Including electronic files
- 80 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BULGARIA: Education Modernization Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions           disbursements'
Project ID     FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                       IBRD       IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P008316        1993 Bulgaria                   ENERGY                                             93.00        0.00       9.00      15.07      25.37       0.00
P033965        1998 Bulgaria                   ENVIRONMENT REMEDIATION PILOT                       16.00       0.00       0.00      10.29       8.38   .  -1.72
P057927        2000 Bulgaria                   ENVIRONMENT & PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT SAL            50.00        0.00       0.00      31.33       1.55       0.00
P055157        2000 Bulgaria                   HEALTH SECTOR REFORM                               63.30        0.00       0.00      63.10       0.00       0.00
P008318        1996 Bulgaria                   HEALTH SECTOR RESTRUCTURING                        26.00        0.00       0.00      10.14      12.99       0.00
P008315        1996 Bulgaria                   RAILWAY REHABILITATION                             95.00       0.00        0.00      14.10      18.38       0.00
P055156        1999 Bulgana                    REGIONAL INITIATIVE FUND                            5.00        0.00       0.00       0.68       0.24       0.00
P008323        1997 Bulgaria                   SOCIAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION                     24.30       0.00       0.00       8.52       8.39       0.00
P070086        2000 Bulgaria                   TRADE & TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SE EUR            7.40       0.00        0.00       7.22       0.00       0.00
P008319        1994 Bulgaria                   WATER COMPANIES RESTRUCTURING&                     98.00       0.00       41.00      27.13      61.89      23.19
MODERNIZATION
Total:      478.00        0.00        50.00      187.58    137.19     21.47
- 81 -



BULGARIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval         Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1999                BAC Bank                        0.00     0.00     5.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     5.00     0.00
1999                Celhart                        13.90     1.50     0.00     0.00    13.90    1.50     0.00     0.00
1998                Devnya Cement                  27.51     0.00     0.00     0.00    21.30    0.00     0.00     0.00
1994                Euromerchant FND                0.00     5.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    4.50     0.00     0.00
1996                Interlease Inc.                 3.21     0.30     0.00     0.00     1.71    0.30     0.00     0.00
2000                Kronospan Group                 11.58    0.00     0.00     8.34     7.54     0.00    0.00     5.43
1997                Sofia Hilton                    10.80    0.00     2.00     9.50     8.11    0.00     2.00     7.13
Total Portfolio:         67.00     6.80     7.00    17.84    52.56    6.30     7.00    12.56
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                             Loan    Equity      Quasi     Partic
1999               BPBank                          10000.00      0.00  12400.00       0.00
2000                Florina                         3600.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
2000                Podem                           3100.00   2000.00       0.00       0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      16700.00   2000.00  12400.00        0.00
- 82 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BULGARIA: Education Modernization Project
Europe &    Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Central   middle.        .           - . ..
Bulgaria       Asia  income        Development diamond
1998
Population. mid-year fmtilions)                          8.2        473       908                   Life expectancy
GNP Pei, capita (Atlas method. USS)                    1,230      2.t90      1.710
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                        lO.1      10,39      1,557
Average annual growth. 1992-98
Pooulation J%)                                           -0.6       0.1        1.1
Labor force (X%                                         ^0.6        0.6        I'5      GNP           ,                   Gross
Most recent estimate (latost year avallable, 1992-98)                                  capita           .  -          enprimare
Poverty 1% of poputation below national poverty fintel    36          -
Urban opoulation (% of total population)                  69         68        58
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          71         69        68
Infant mortality (per 1.000 live births)                  18         23        38
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                -.-Access to safe water
Access :o safe water (% of population)                     -                   75
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+1                       2          4        14
Gross Primary enrollment (% of school-age oonulatfon)     99        100       103         -Butgara
Male                                                   100        101       105               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                  98         99       100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997       19981
Economic ratios*
GOP (USS bit/ions)                                      28.4       10.1       12.3
Gross domestic investment/GOP                           32.9       11t4       147                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GODP                      40.8       61.9       45.2
Gross domestic savinqs/GDP                        ..    31.1       16.9       13,7
Gross national savings/GDP                              30.3       15.7       12.9
Current account batancelGOP                              -2.S       4.2       -2.1      Domestic 
Interest payments/GDP                                     1.4       4.3        3.7                             -     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                          29.1       97.2       80.8      Savings
Total debt servicelexports                       1. 7.2             14,4      22.3
Present value of debtGDP                          ..       .       92.2          -
Present value of debt/exports                    -. ..            143.6
Indebtedness
1977-S7  198S-98      1997       1998   1999-03
(averaie annual orowth)
GOP                                   3 6      -4.0     -7,0        3.5        4.6         -Bulgaria
GNP oer capita                        3.5      -3.0      -5.9       4.8        5.6                Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         6.2    -12,2        31      -15.6        3.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997      1998       Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                             60
Agricultture                                      .      1 1.8     23.8       18.7     60
Industrv                                         ..    61.5        25.3       25.5
Manufacturinq                                   ..       ..       16.8      17.0     20
Services                                         ..    26.7        50.9       55.7    -20                                       I
Private consumption                              ..    61.5        70.3       71.2    .40.
General qovernment consumption                    .      7.4       12.8       15.1                -GDI          -OGDP
Imports of goods and services                     .     42.6       56.4       46.3
1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998       Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Aqriculture                                    -2.5     -2.1       32.9        1.4    30
Industry                                        6.4     -6.2      -11.3        4.3    20
Manu1acturing                                   ..       ..      -14.9       6.5
Services                                        3.8     -2.0      -19.3        4.0
Private consumption                             3.3     -4.9      -22.8       -4.7                        95
General government consumption                  8.6     -4.3       -1.4        4.0    .10
Gross domestic investment                       3.2     -7.7       33.1       44.3    -20
Imports of goods and services                   6.1    -16.3        -2.7      -2.8              -Exports        -*-Imports
Gross national product                          3.7     -3.8       -6.6        4.4
Note: 1 198 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-qroup averaqe. If data are missing. the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 83 -



Bulgaria
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987      1997      1998     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                         1,200 T
Consumer prices                                ..       ..   1,082.3      22.3      80x
Implicit GDP deflator                          ..      0.1     949.1      22.2
400
Government finance
(% of GOP, includes current qrants)                                                                     4
Current revenue                                ..    60.2       32.7      34.6               93   94   95   96   97    9
Current budget balance                         ..       ..        1.7      4.1              -G DP deflator  - *CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..       ..        2.1      2.8
TRADE
1977     1987      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                     Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  10,287      4,940    4,293      3,000 T
Other metal                                  ..   1,801
Other agriculture                            ..   1,479               ..         4000
Manufactures                                 ..       ..         ..        ..         E'
Total imports (cif)                             ..  11,298     4,932     4,995         '_i
Food                                         ..    409          141      192    2.000
Fuel and energy                              ..   1,565       1,594     1,151
Capital goods                                 ..   5,128       862      1,070       0
92  93  94  95  96  97  98
Export pnce index (1995=100)                   ,.       95        98        86                 3
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..       65        87        85    |            Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..    148         112       100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJS$ millions)                             1977     1987       1997      1998     Current account balance to GDP ratio I%)
Exports of goods and services                  ..  11,444      6,277     5,548      6
Imports of goods and services                   ..  11,959     5,730     5,716      3
Resource balance                                ..   -515        547      -168                                   *
Net income                                      ..    -314      -357      -314      3A
Net current transfers                          ..    108         237       230
Current account balance                               -721       427      -252
Financing items (net)                          ..    389         820       697    -12
Chanqes in net reserves                        ..    332    -1,247        -445          92   93  94   95   96  97  98
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..       ..    2,474    3,057
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)                       1.3   1,696.0   1,760.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           38    8,266     9,859    9,907
IBRO                                         0        0        501       697                    G:460 A 697
IDA                                          0        0          0         0
_C: 1,116
Total debt service                              2    1,989       932     1,296                Ci                  1 1
IBRD                                         0        0         47        57
IDA                                          0        0          0         0              /D:565
t D~~~~~: 565
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              0         0       129        59                                     E, 1,206
Official creditors                            0     651        -75        73
Private creditors                             1     779        -59        32          F: 5,863
Foreign direct investment                    ..        0       507       401
Portfolio equity                             ..        0       133      -219
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0        0       140       101     A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 0        0       101       197      B - IDA    D- Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          0        0        16        20      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                      0        0        85       177
Interest payments                            0        0         31        37
Net transfers                                 0        0        54       140
Development Economics                                                                                                9/16/99
- 84 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Financial Management
Assessment of Financial Manaeement System
Objective: The primary objective of the assessment is to determine whether the project has in place
adequate financial management systems for project implementation and credit disbursements as required
under OP/BP 10.02.
Implementation Arrangements: The Ministry of Education and Science (MES) will have the overall
responsibility for project implementation with the assistance of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within
the Finance and Economic Department that would have day to day responsibility for all PCU activities.
The main functions of the PCU will be procurement, project accounting, administration of the Special
Account, disbursements, financial reporting, auditing arrangements and coordination with the World Bank.
To coordinate the activities of the proposed project, the MES would continue to rely on the previously
established PCU under the Public Sector Management Loan. The existing PCU is headed by a coordinator
and has a procurement specialist, both of whom will report to the Secretary General of MES.
Staffing: It was agreed that the new PCU will have one director, two coordinators, one each for higher and
general education component; two procurement specialists; one financial management specialist
(accountant); and one office secretary/interpreter. The PCU is presently headed by a coordinator who has
experience in managing a PHRD grant including procurement of consultants. Arrangements have also been
put in place to provide her with training in accounting software that the PCU intends to use. The
accountant is hired and is in place since July 10, 2000.
Financial Management Reporting: During appraisal, the format and frequency for the submission of
Project Management Reports (PMRs) was discussed with the newly identified PCU accountant, who also
received a copy each of Project Financial Management Manual, LACI Handbook, and Financial
Accowuting Reporting and Auditing Handbook. It was agreed that during the initial period in which the
PCU may not be ready to prepare quarterly PMRs, disbursements will start using traditional methods i.e.
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) reimbursements, direct payment, etc. It was further agreed that even
though the PCU will initially be using traditional disbursement method it will, on a parallel basis, also
produce PMRs, not necessarily for replenishment purposes but for reporting and gaining experience. Once
the PCU has gained experience with the financial management system (FMS) and reporting under project
management reports, and provided that an improved FMS is reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank,
and wilh agreement of the Borrower, the Project will move to PMR-based disbursements. Once converted,
the PCU will be responsible for preparing quarterly PMRs, acceptable to the Bank, each of which will
include: (i) financial report summarizing sources of project financing and project expenditures,
disbursement, and forecasted project expenditures; (ii) reconciliation of the Special Account; (iii) project
progress report comprising output monitoring and summary of project progress; and (iv) procurement
management report on status of procurement and contract management.
Accounting Software: The PCU has already installed an accounting software package acceptable to the
Bank. The system runs on a window based 'PIAS' accounting software and is based on double entry
accrual accounting system. The package is considered to be adequate with respect to meeting basic
accounting requirements.
- 85 -



Auditing arrangements: The PCU has provided the Bank assurance that independent auditors will be in
place by March 30, 2001. This was discussed and agreed during Negotiations. The Bank has already
provided a 'no-objection' to a short list of auditors. Draft terms of reference for the audit of the Project
Management Reports (PMRs), project financial statements, the Special Account, and system of internal
controls have been provided to the PCU. Independent auditors whose qualifications and experience as well
as terms of reference acceptable to IBRD, will be selected by March 30, 2001. It has been agreed that the
auditors should be selected in time to carry out their responsibilities, including review of the financial
management systems at the beginning of Project implementation, and to enable the timely issuance of
annual audited financial statements.  The audit will be carried out in accordance with acceptable
international standards, and Bank guidelines on auditing and financial reporting, such as The World Bank
Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook and Project Financial Management Manual.
The audit report will include a separate opinion for SOEs and the PMRs against which disbursements have
been made or are due to be made from the Loan. The Borrower will submit to the Bank audited financial
statements and audit report within six months following the fiscal year-end.
Flow of Funds/Special Account: The funds will be channeled through the Special Account to be opened
in the National Bank or a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. To facilitate timely project
implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and operate under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank, a Special Account at a local bank in which loan amount will be transferred. In parallel, a
Project Account will also be opened (in a local commercial bank) to facilitate payment for local project
expenditures financed from counterpart funds. Where necessary, funds will be transferred from the Special
account to the Project account for eligible project activities. The PCU will manage the Special Account,
including preparing Loan withdrawal applications and supporting documentation, replenishment and
reconciliation of the Account. The authorized allocation for this Special Account is Euro $1,000,000
equivalent. The replenishment applications should be submitted at least every three months and must
include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
Financial Management Manual: A Financial Management Manual (FMM) is presently being prepared by
the PCU Accountant. The Bank has already received a draft version of the Manual and provided
comments. The FMM include: (i) financial management system proposed under the Project, with special
emphasis on accounting and auditing policies, standards and internal controls; (ii) role of the financial
management systems in Project management and implementation; (iii) accounting arrangements required
for Project management, the format for and content of Project financial reporting; and (iv) the auditing
arrangements that will be used during Project implementation. It is expected that by September 30, 2000, a
final FMM, satisfactory to the Bank, will be ready.
Readiness for Implementation and Risks: Even though a qualified accountant has been put in place since
July, further training is being provided to the accountant to ensure that an acceptable financial management
system is in place before the project goes to the Board. A recent visit (July 2000) by a financial
management specialist confirmed that such training has already begun to Bank's satisfaction.  A
time-bound Action Plan (prepared during appraisal) was also updated during this visit.
Action Plan: For strengthening of the financial management system, a time-bound Action Plan was
produced during appraisal and updated during a visit by a financial management specialist (FMS) in July
2000. The FMS issued a 4-B certificate confinning that the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements are in place. The updated Action Plan, presented in Annex 11, was discussed and agreed with
the relevant government officials, including PCU staff during this visit. The PCU Director and Accountant
will be responsible for ensuring adherence to the agreed timetable. Instructions will be sought from the
management of MES, wherever necessary.
- 86 -



Action                                             Responsibility     Date
I    Recruitment of PCU Accountant                       PCU                Done: July 10, 2000
2    Recruitment of Procurement Specialist               PCU                Done: June 1, 2000
3    Installation of accounting software capable of producing
PMRs acceptable to IBRD                            PCU                Done: July 11, 2000
4    Preparation of Draft Financial Management Manual    PCU/IBRD           Done: June 7, 2000
5    Start of Financial Management training for accountant    PCU/IBRD      Done: July 11, 2000
6    Presentation of short-list of auditors acceptable to IBRD    PCU       Done: June 1, 2000
7    IBRD to confirm adequacy of financial management    IBRD               Done: Aug. 4, 2000
arrangements                                                          4B Certificate Issued
8    Accounting software tested and operational          PCU                Done: Aug. 4, 2000
9    Submission of final Financial Management Manual     PCU                By Sept. 30, 2000
10    Production of sample PMR                           PCU                By Dec. 1, 2000
11    Appointment of auditors                            PCU                March 30, 2001
12    Preparation of first PMR submitted to IBRD         PCU                September 30, 2001
- 87 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Letter of Sector Policy
THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND SCIENCE
OFFICE OF THE MINISTER
Date 01/07/2000
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Letter of Sector Policy
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
This Letter of Sector Policy sets out the main policy direction of the Ministry of Education and Science,
indicates areas where further development is anticipated, and identifies areas where assistance is
sought.
Our educational policy and the content of education in our schools and universities have been
transformed since 1990. The beginning of the transformation was signaled by the National Education
Act, which was enacted on the 18th of October 1991. This act returned school education in Bulgaria to
its rightful place in a democratic pluralistic society. Since then, we have supported this enabling act
with numerous subsidiary laws and regulations dealing with different elements of the education system,
each of which putting into effect our policies.
While our education system and our educational institutions are a fundamental pillar of civic society
and democracy, they also play a critical role in helping Bulgaria maintain and improve its economic
strength. Bulgaria has applied for membership in the European Union, and we have begun a
programme of adaptation and amendment of our legislation as well as initiating institutional and
economic reforms to facilitate this process. We also are strengthening our educational institutions, their
quality and improving outcomes in order that Bulgaria will be able to withstand the competitive
pressures, which the Single Market will bring.
Until now, the close working relationships between our Ministry and the World Bank have not included
borrowing for education. We envisage this as the next step in an already existing strong relationship,
which began in 1990. We are working closely with other intemational partners, including the EU Phare
Programme, bi-lateral donors, and other leading educational development agencies including the Soros
Foundation.
- 88 -



In this letter, I would like to brief you on the key issues in the education sector, present our policies on
these issues, and highlight where we seek assistance.
1. Recent developments and key issues in basic, secondary and higher education:
A. Primary and Secondary Education
Structure of the system. The Bulgarian educational system is based on laws passed by the National
Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. Basic and secondary education is provided in conformity with
the National Education Act (NEA) of 1991. School education is compulsory from age 6 or 7 up to the
age of 16. Basic education (grades I to 8) covers primary school (grades I to 4) and pre-secondary
school (grades 5 to 8). It may be obtained at state, municipal, or in a small number of private schools.
Secondary education covers pupils from grades 9 to 11 and in some specialized schools, up to grade 13.
A recent decision has been taken to extend secondary schooling to grade 12 in all schools. Vocational
secondary schools (grades 7 or 8 to 11 or 12) provide specific vocational education for pupils.
Enrollment. In the academic year 1997/98 there were approximately 1.1 million children in schools in
Bulgaria, of whom 71% are in grades I - VIII, 13% are in general secondary education and 16% are in
technical/vocational secondary education. The gross enrollment ratios at basic, secondary and
technical/vocational schools are about 100%, 87% and 68% respectively. The incidence of school drop
out is noticeably high in middle schools. There were 84 000 teachers in 1997/98 working in schools.
Pupil teacher ratios range from 18:1 in primary schools to 11:1 in vocational schools. Projections made
on the basis of demographic change show school populations dropping by 31% for primary and 23%
for middle school by the school year 2006/07. These changes are a major concern to the MES, and
underpin the Ministry's Optimization Policy.
Access. Access to schools is generally good, particularly at the primary level, as shown by the
enrollrnent ratios. However, after primary, in middle school, drop out rates are quite high. To
encourage participation in school by children from minorities, special provision is made through special
language instruction in the mother tongue. However, the incidence of drop out is higher in basic and
lower secondary schools amongst minorities than the average rate.
Basic school education is usually provided in the pupil's nearest school, though parents have the right to
choose an alternative school for their children provided there are free places. In rural areas where there
are no village schools, the municipality is responsible for the provision of transport for children to the
nearest primary/basic school. The choice of secondary school is optional and depends on pupil and
parental preferences. Some of the specialized secondary schools require an entry examination.
Management. The administration of education is organized at four levels: national, regional,
municipal, and school level. The Ministry of Education and Science determines and implements state
policy in the field of education. At the regional level, Educational Inspectorates are responsible for
supervision of state education policy and schools' performance. The school is a legal entity. Its
administrative bodies are the Head of School and the Pedagogical Council. Recently school Governing
Bodies have been reintroduced, which is a return to previous educational practice.
Finance and Financial Systems. Based on the primary source of financing, schools in Bulgaria are
grouped as state schools or municipality schools. The state schools (mainly vocational and for children
- 89 -



with special needs) are funded directly from the MES (or other concerned line ministries) budget.
Municipality schools, which form the biggest proportion of schools, are funded from three sources.
First, a block grant is awarded to the Municipality from the Ministry of Finance for the provision of
social and other services (including education). In respect of education, this grant is based on a formula
which principally reflects pupil numbers and number of classes, in approximately equal proportion.
Second, the Municipality may award education a share of locally raised taxes thus allocating to
education resources above the central government block grant. Third, some schools are able to raise
funds themselves.
At the municipal level, each school submits a proposed programme for the coming year, which the
Municipality approves. These programmes have to follow state norms of educational provision, notably
those pertaining to class size, national curricula, and also must reflect the employment conditions for
teachers, e.g. number of teacher hours per week. Schools, with the exception of those working under
so-called delegated budgets programme, do not manage funds. Services are provided and paid for by
the municipality, teachers' salaries are paid centrally by the municipality, and building maintenance is
organized by the municipality. One hundred schools have been following an experimental programme
(the Delegated Budgets programme) to manage their own school budgets since March of 1998.
Following a review of this pilot programme, the government decided to extend this approach to all
schools in Bulgaria.
Inspection and Monitoring. Responsibility for implementing the state educational requirements and
norms rests with the Education Inspectorates. Teams of inspectors based in each of the 28 regions
control activities in all state, municipal and private schools, kindergartens and servicing units on their
territory. Each inspection team within given Inspectorate consists of about 12 subject specialists
together with inspectors for finance and economics, and for organization. Each Inspectorate is a legal
entity. The quality of the leadership provided by the Head of the Educational Inspectorate in each
region is a key factor in promoting change. There are approximately 700 inspectors, who perform
approximately 20,000 school inspections per year.
The inspectors assess the results of school based teaching-leaming activity. The results of the
inspection are summarized in a report made available to the school. On the basis of the final report and
its findings, the Inspectorate makes recommendations to the school directors. Inspectors also contribute
to the quality of education by appointing school directors (as from May 1st, 1999) of municipal schools
approving the curriculum and staffing structure of the school, and intervene in cases of malpractice.
Inspectors are also responsible for monitoring compliance in financial and economic management of
schools, as governed by the norns and legislation.
Curriculum. From September 1999, a new curriculum framework was introduced based on national
content standards for each subject expressed in terms of the knowledge, skills and attitudes that
students should acquire. A National system of assessment standards in each subject will be developed
as well. This will replace the current curriculum, which is defined largely in terms of subject content, is
academic in nature, and is targeted to more able learners.
Assessment and Examinations. School-leavers currently receive certificates based mainly on teacher
assessments. There are very few national tests to provide the consistency demanded by higher education
and employers. The certificates issued as pupils complete basic education (grade 8) are also based on
intemal teacher assessments. They do not provide the necessary information to guide students into the
next phase of education nor do they provide decision makers with sufficient information about school
performance and effectiveness.
-90 -



Links to the Labour Market. Traditionally, vocational schools were tied closely to individual
enterprises, and the specialization of the enterprises played a large part in the focus of skills training in
these schools. These close ties have largely been broken though the inheritance of subject and skill
specialization is still within the vocational school system.
The vocational schools need the knowledge and experience of the social partners in order to respond to
the challenges of the changing business environment within which the school graduates will work. The
commitment and influence of the employers will be enhanced by:
*   Provision of practical experience to the students, which complements the training delivered within
the vocational schools
*   Participation of the employers in the development of vocational standards
*   Participation of the employers in the assessment, certification, and awarding the vocational
qualifications
*   Participation of the employers in the vocational teacher training related to the labour market needs
A methodology for labour market needs analysis is developed that could help the vocational education
systerm. It could be applied at the 28 regions for identifying the trends, which determine the enrollment
state plan for the vocational schools. The Ministry of Education and Science involves the employers
and the concerned state institutions in the process of developing the new State Register of Specialities,
which is designed in conformity with the ISCED requirements. Taking into account the labour market
needs, the priority will be given to the large-profile professions and to building essential skills such as
foreign language skills, entrepreneurial skills, ICT-skills, and teamwork skills. Thus, the training will
be provided that match the market labour needs and the ongoing structural reform of the national
econorny.
B. Higher Education System
Structure of the system. Within the system of Higher Education in Bulgaria there are 41 Higher
Schools, 29 are state owned, 8 military and 4 private. This number includes the ex-semi higher
institutes). After the enactment of the Academic Autonomy Act in 1990, the Higher Schools established
a number of detached education units. Some Higher Schools covered the whole territory of the country
with such units. The tuition in those detached units is of poor quality.
Number of students. Enrollments in the Higher Schools have grown substantially in the 90s, from less
than 150 thousand students in 1991 to nearly 250 thousand students in by 1997. The entire increase of
the number of students is the result of the Higher Schools now being able to enroll students who pay for
their tlition. Until the 90s, the students in Bulgaria paid no fees for their tuition, i.e. the Higher
Education was free. Together with this type of students, in the 90s, the Higher Schools were allowed to
receive students who could pay for their tuition - the so-called paid education. The number of students
enrolled in the Higher Schools for paid and free tuition has always been controlled by the Government,
but in 1995 the number of paid students doubled as compared to the same number in 1993, and by
1997 they constituted half of the total number of students. Another specific feature of the development
of the System during this period is the sharp increase of the number of part-time students - it more
than doubled in the period between 1991 and 1997.
Structure, number, and age of the academic staff. The number of tutors did not increase so sharply
as the number of students. In spite of that, the ratio of students to tutors remains relatively low - 11.7/1
- 91 -



(according to the information from the National Statistics Institute - 1997). In the 90s there has been a
particular increase in the number of social sciences (mostly economics) students. As a result, the ratio
of students/tutors in this sphere is especially high (average 50/1 for the Higher Schools of Economics).
More interesting is the data regarding the aging of the tutors at the Higher Schools. For instance 40%
of the professors in Bulgaria are now at the age of 60-65 and 29% are 65 - 69, whereas only 9% are at
the age of up to 54. The average age of the lecturers is over 50. Apart from a lack of motivation due to
low salaries and bad conditions in the country for scientific research, low pensions appear to be the
reason for lecturers' lack of desire to retire. With young people uninterested in academic careers due
to different reasons, a "habilitation" crisis can be expected soon.
Quality assurance system. The system for improving and maintaining the quality of higher education
contains the following elements:
The normative documents should be considered a medium, in which the Higher Schools (HS) and
other institutions take part in the process of evaluation and maintenance of the quality.. They are
subject to assessment, criticism and amendment.
Extemal quality assessment - A National Agency for Evaluation and Accreditation has been
established and is fimctioning. The first assessments of programs and institutions have already been
made under a two-phase EU Phare Project that supported the establishment of the Agency. During
the second phase, special attention will be paid to institutional accreditation issues.
Internal quality assessment - Inter-university systems for quality assessment and maintenance have
not been developed yet. But the amendments to the Higher Education Act (HEA) require such
systems and in a number of universities the implementation of pilot projects under the Tempus
Program has begun.
Professional quality assessment - Diplomas for higher education, qualified by professional
organizations, shall be the result of the connection between the professional organizations and the
Higher Schools. The assessment shall be done on the basis of the requirements of the professional
organizations to judge the qualification of the HS graduates. At the moment, however, no such
assessment is being done.
Funds for Higher Education. The funds allocated for Higher Education in the 90s decreased from
42% of the GDP per capita in 1991 to 22% in 1998. For a long time, private funding of Higher
Education has remained at its present low level - around 1% of the GDP per capita. Given the
inappropriate premises, the outdated financial management, lack of modem administration, and the
fragmented university structure, the available funds are sufficient only for salaries and current
expenses. As a result, the equipment necessary for the training process has become outdated, the supply
with new titles and the maintenance of the periodic editions for the libraries has deteriorated, and
publishing scientific findings of the academic staff becomes more difficult. In a word, the whole
academic life is upset and the final result is lowered education quality.
Material base and access to scientific information and information networks. The reduction of
funds available for the Higher Education System (HES) has had a negative impact on the maintenance
and renewal of the material base of the Higher Schools. Only 15% of the equipment is deemed adequate
for teaching purposes (60% is evaluated as partly adequate but in need of some renewal and 25% needs
thorough renewal). Among the higher schools, 70% of the buildings need overhaul. 91% of the
scientific equipment for training purposes needs renewal, and only the computers supplied mainly under
international EU Programmes are in a relatively good condition. The reduced funding for higher
education also has had a very negative impact on libraries. The flow of new literature has decreased
considerably, as has the number of periodic magazines for which the libraries subscribe - only 27% of
- 92 -



the Higher Schools have what might be considered sufficient access to scientific literature. Libraries
need total restructuring. Access to Internet is assessed as sufficient at only 55% of the Higher Schools
(and there are a number of Higher Schools without any access to Intemet).
Quality of education and adequacy of the HE System and HS to society and the economy. This
short review and analysis of the HE System unequivocally shows that education quality is sharply
lowered:
The Higher Schools were not prepared (in either equipment and tutors) for such a sharp increase in
the number of students. The wider opening of the university doors led to mass enrollment in higher
education, but also allowed a flow into the system of people who do not possess the necessary
skills to do university work. At the same time the System tumed out to have an increased
permeability. In 1997 the students numbered 250,000. At an average of 45,000 students enrolled
per year, the training period becomes 5.6 years (at an average duration of the training period of
around 5 years).
* Part-time training is also of lower quality. One reason is the lack of modem textbooks and
tutorials, small number of lectures and workshops - 3 weeks in a semester, in some cases even less
(as compared to 15 weeks in a semester for the regular students), lack of appropriate libraries in
thle places, where the part-time students work and live, sharply reduced contacts with the lecturers,
and lack of academic atmosphere.
* The tuition in the detached units of the Higher Schools also shows low quality (with a few
exceptions). These detached units are usually located in buildings, where apart from the basics
necessary for the training process, no other facilities  are available - libraries, Computer
Information Systems, access to the Intemet, an academic atmosphere (not to mention capacity for
scientific research, seminars, optional extra-curricular courses, etc.).
Fumds allocated for HE decreased, as a result of which the quality of education also decreased.
The Academic Managerial Council and most staff of the Higher Schools still refuse to discuss the
seriously changed environment - the changed economic structure of the country, the introduction of
the market economy rules in all spheres of social life, the necessary cutting of training costs related
to the mass enrollment in the HE system, the introduction of the broad-spectrum specialties, very
olten from interdisciplinary spheres of science, the autonomy of the Higher Schools, the increased
requirements for inter-university maintenance of the education quality, the competition between the
Higher Schools, the reduction of the real earnings of the staff etc. As a result, the HE system as a
whole and the individual Higher Schools do not react adequately to the requirements of society and
the economy.
II. Strategic vision for the future development of the sector
Main Objective: To improve the quality and relevance of education while retaining accessibility
and increasing equity
A.    Development of basic and secondary education
The priorities for future development of basic and secondary education are: improving access to basic
and secondary education, particularly amongst disadvantaged and minority groups, and introducing
lifelong education; improving the quality of education, through the introduction of national standards,
improved teacher preparation and in-service training, building in improved quality assurance and
evaluation systems, and; making education more effective through greater transparency in
- 93 -



professional qualifications, improved govemance of education, improved use of resources devoted to
education, and closer links with the social partners.
The main development in terms of improving the quality of secondary education are connected with:
- development of systems of content standards and assessment standards to form a sound base for a
new national curriculum
- development of new, standards-based, curriculum to upgrade the existing one by preparing
programmes of study for each subject
- training of specialists in curriculum development for the different subjects, together with some
resources for curriculum development (writing programmes of study for different subjects), as well
as some resources for capacity building in MES in the scope of curriculum design.
- National Curriculum Council will be established to co-ordinate the development, implementation,
monitoring and revision of the curriculum and standards
- upgrading of the in-service teacher training system based on the new demands of education and
supporting a reliable network of training providers; the main goal is to create a competitive market
of training providers and services;
- initial training of new teachers' needs to reflect and introduce the new developments in the
secondary education;
- MES will enhance an accreditation process for the providers;
- assessment and examination process will be further developed by additional training in assessment
techniques and establishment of national assessment unit;
- educational Inspectorates need further institutional building support in terms of implementation of
the educational policy on new curriculum and standards, related assessment, handling the
decentralization process, optimization of the school network, delegated budgets and design of an
effective inspection system for new curriculum and assessment.
The main development in terms of making secondary education more efficient are connected with:
v      Govemance and management of the secondary education which includes:
0 development of the Management Informnation System (MIS) by refining the overall design and
providing appropriate soft- and hardware.
0 Training and qualification of the management personnel in the education system
v Providing intemal efficiency of the secondary education by:
0 further decentralization of the management through development of an in-house training capacity to
support the implementation of the main educational policies;
0 optimization of the school network by reorganization or closure of schools and to establish flexible
criteria to encourage innovative solutions to local needs;
0 further implementation of delegated school budgets and training for municipality and school
authorities for the implementation
B.    Development of Higher Education
The main characteristics of the future Higher Education System in Bulgaria can be outlined in the
following way:
An effective network of Higher Schools and improved resource management in the HE sector;
* Uniform fee structure and a viable system of student loans and stipends;
* Well-trained academic staff providing high quality instruction through a relevant syllabus and
curriculum.
- 94 -



It is expected that the number of the public HE establishments (incl. branches and centres) will be
optimized and a couple of private universities will be maintained to meet the requirements of the new
HE strategy. The autonomy of the universities (decisions on staff, budget and curriculum) will be kept,
while flexibility of the curriculum will be stimulated to provide mobility within and between the
different specialties, faculties and HE establishments. The public financing of the sector will be based
on the demand driven priorities and needs relevant to the development of the market economy and social
changes.
The following strategic objectives have been identified:
1)    Improving Resource Management in HE Sector;
2)     Retaining Accessibility of HE in Bulgaria;
3)    Improving Teaching and Learning Process
1) Improving resource management in HE sector.
Changing the method of distribution of student seats. The distribution of student seats in specialties
at HS is being done in accordance with the State Register of Specialities. This means that the
distribution is done in 194 specialties at 41 universities and 42 colleges. This approach complicates the
procedure and does not enable universities to carry out a more flexible policy in the enrollment of
students. The state should take part in the process of distribution of student seats not in specialties, but
in spheres or areas. Thus, instead of distribution in 194 specialties, it can be done in 19 or 20 scientific
spheres or areas.
Co-operation with representatives of employers. In the process of reform, it is mandatory to involve
more fully representatives of the employers and social partners, with who close co-operation should be
maintained. This relationship is especially important in the processes of: developing new educational
stanclards and programs; and ensuring proper conditions for practical training, renewal of material
base and equipment and the use of practicing tutors in the training process. It will also be important to
involve employers in the process of redefining the type of specialties in the distribution of student
seats.
Life-long learning. In order to improve the relevance of HE to the needs of the economy and social
requirements, it also is necessary to encourage more life-long leaming. This is the only way to satisfy
the needs for new knowledge and skills that result from the fast changing environment and a rapidly
developing information society.
2) Retaining accessibility and increasing equity of the HE System
Sustainability of the access to HE and equity of HE shall be reached through:
achievement and sustainability of an optimum enrollment in HE;
introduction of uniform tuition fees for everybody;
*developing a scheme for student loans and stipends;
introduction of unified entrance exams in HS; and
encouraging more non-university programs for Higher Education.
3) Quality improvement in teaching
Curriculum reform. The curriculum reflects the narrow specialties in the Bulgarian HE system
- 95 -



inherited from the Soviet influence. In spite of the introduction of the three degrees (Bachelor, Master
and Doctor) and the State Register of Specialities (in 1997), which reduced the number of specialties by
more than half, in some Higher Schools a considerable number of narrow specialties are still taught.
Another aspect of the existing curriculum is the necessary annual minimum number of academic hours
per tutor, which amounts to 360 hours lecturing. This means that the curriculum is designed in such a
manner as to ensure enough hours for the lecturers. For that reason the weekly engagement of the
students in many cases reaches 30 hours. The curriculum is often designed to suit the tutors' interests,
not the students'. Also it almost never reflects the requirement for minimum costs for tuition.
The Unified State Requirements to Education in Specialities and the State Register of Specialities
should be replaced with standards, which will create conditions for the design of wider-profiled,
flexible, modem curriculum. To achieve these reforms, the State Register should meet the ISCED-97
requirements.
The curriculum should:
- enable students to acquire broader knowledge in the specific sphere;
-  reflect the necessity for the students to leam how to study, thus preparing them for constant
training throughout their lifetime;
- be flexible, in order to give the students a choice;
allow for student mobility and credit transfer;
encourage the smaller, narrow specialized institutions to consolidate.
Consolidation of lecturing and scientific research for maximum use of the academic staff of the
country. Traditionally scientific research and student tuition has been divided between two institutions
in Bulgaria - the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences (BAS) and the Higher Schools. This traditional
method of organization is inadequate both with regard to resources (financial and human) of the
country and with regard to the requirement for quality training. It is obvious that such waste of
academic staff and resources cannot exist for a long period of time in the conditions of financial and
(increasing) staff insufficiency. This is a difficult task that requires strong political will and sound
analysis of the future of the Bulgarian science and Higher Education. Therefore the existing scientific
institutes of BAS and HS should combine efforts and resources with the common purpose of ensuring
adequate scientific volume and the necessary quality of education.
Subsidizing scientific research related to the training process. The Amendment of the Higher
Education Act (HEA) envisages that the Higher Schools receive a subsidy amounting to 10% of the
student's allowance, which shall be used for scientific research for the needs of the training in the
specific sphere. The Higher Schools should ensure the necessary conditions, which will guarantee that
the subsidy shall be used for that purpose only.
Assessment of the lecturers' qualities. The HEA requires that the Higher Schools shall have an
intemal system for evaluation of the quality of training and the tutors. Such internal systems have not
yet been developed. They should be designed to help remove tutors who do not possess the necessary
qualities and enhance future tutor development. The problem of the high average age of tutors can be
reduced to a certain extent through a system for early retirement of older lecturers who do not possess
the necessary skills.
Modernization of equipment. An important element of the improvement and maintenance of the
education quality is the ensuring of modem equipment. The analysis of the equipment currently
available in Bulgarian Universities (with small exceptions) indicates it is woefully outdated. This
- 96 -



means that modernization of the equipment within the system of HE must constitute an important part
of the HE reform strategy.
Stimulation and bonuses to attract and keep young academic staff. One of the reasons for the aging
of the academic staff is that young people are less interested in making academic careers for various
reasons. Young staff could be attracted and kept through a special program for the development of
doctorates and privileged bonuses for them.
Establishment of a teaching-quality improvement fund. The establishment of a special Fund for
financing HE projects, related to improvement of teaching quality, together with the Institutional
System for Evaluation and Support of Tuition and Tutors Quality, thus is an important part of the
overall strategy for improving the HE quality.
III. Mqeans for achieving the strategy objectives: Statement of the assistance needed.
A. Basic and Secondary Education
Decentralization. Assistance is sought to extend delegated budgets on a phased basis to all schools in
Bulgaria. Funding will be required for the training of municipality staff in the design of funding
formulas, school directors in new financial and general management skills, and inspectors in new
approaches to assessing school effectiveness in a delegated system. Assistance is sought also for the
gradual expansion of the delegated budget system to cover all schools in the country.
In line with the principle of decentralization, training funds would be delegated to schools to purchase
training from accredited providers operating in a competitive market. Assistance is required to promote
the establishment of a training market, to develop an accreditation system for both in-house and private
sector providers.
Optimization of the School Network. Assistance is sought for supporting MES and the local
authorities in introducing network optimization programmes, which will simultaneously optimize
efficiently the school network while maintaining the quality of education. Funding is also required for
technical assistance and training to strengthen the school place planning capacity of the MES and the
Inspectorates, and to support municipalities in the identification and implementation of school
reorganizations, including improved arrangements for local consultation.
New National Curriculum. Funding is required for:
* printing and publishing the developed content standards and development and publishing of
assessment standards;
* technical assistance and training to strengthen the curriculum development function of the MES
(including seminars, study visits, fellowships), support for teams that will write the programmes of
study for each subject;
Lthe set-up costs of an Information Centre for curriculum developers at MES - minor refurbishment,
office furniture, reference materials, and computers with Intemet access.
Teacher training and staff development. Headteachers will require training in curriculum design and
implementation, but the most significant cost will be for a national programme of in-service teacher
training so that all serving teachers are familiar not only with the new curriculum content, but are able
to adapt their teaching methods to the new requirements. Technical assistance will be required to help
design the national programme, to train trainers and to fund a large number of courses and training
materials.
- 97 -



Assessment and examinations. Assistance is needed to establish the proposed assessment and
examinations system. Specifically, the funding will be used for:
technical assistance to support the development of the infrastructure and training of key personnel;
* training in assessment techniques, test development, and data analysis - seminars, study visits,
fellowships;
refurbishment of premises to provide secure accommodation for the proposed National Assessment
Unit;
equipment - office equipment, hardware and software for desktop publishing, examination
administration and data analysis.
Changing role of the Education Inspectorate. Significant training needs for inspectors arise, not only
from the new curriculum and assessment system, but also from the impact of decentralization in general
and the implementation of delegated budgets in particular. Assistance is sought for technical assistance
to help develop a new national framework for inspection of assessing and reporting on school
effectiveness in a decentralized system. Funding will also be required for training inspectors in
curriculum development and monitoring, in data analysis and interpretation, and how to act as change
agents.
Management Information System (MIS). Assistance is needed to implement the proposed MIS.
Reference has already been made to the cost of an administration computer in each school capable of
transferring base data electronically. Specifically, funding is required for:
* initial design of the MIS and development of a prototype of MIS, which will be piloted at the four
management levels - national, regional, municipal, and school.
system developers to refine the design of the MIS;
* purchase of additional computers, printers and network hardware for the central MES and
Education Inspectorates;
* programmers to write system software;
user training.
Communications strategy. Funding is sought for an information and media campaign to run alongside
the implementation of the policy initiatives. It is envisaged that a company with experience in the field
will be employed to design and manage the campaign. Assistance is sought for the cost of employing
the company together with the cost of items such as press advertisements, leaflets, videos, a web site
and promotional material.
B. Higher Education
Reform of the HEI Funding. in the area of HE funding reforms, technical assistance is sought for:
further elaboration of the student allowances normative document; modifying the existing uniform
tuition fee scheme; and narrowing the range of disciplines employed in the allocation of student seats.
Technical assistance is needed to design the reform strategy and introduce price-based allocation
principles into the HE institution funding process. To support the implementation of these and other
reforms, an appropriate unit must be established within the MES that will require support and
assistance in terms of equipment, staff training, and structure development.
- 98 -



Restructuring of HE Network of Institutions. Funding is sought for restructuring of the HE network
of institutions, consolidation of small HE establishments and merging of services. For this purpose,
assistance is needed for designing a concept/action plan for introducing joint services of HE Institutions
and elaboration of midterm merging initiatives and of the necessary institutional and legislative
framework. The initiative will help small institutions to understand their role in the process. The
dialogue between the HE establishments for achieving the above initiative is to be enhanced. Technical
assistance will help the overall design (including detailed regulations, procedures, staff training,
institutional and logistic structure, etc.) of Competitive Teaching and Management Improvement Fund
(CTMSHE). Publicity for the reform and CTMSHE is to be supported as well.
Internal Reorganization of the Structure and Management of HE Establishments. Assistance is
sought for improving the internal management and structure of HE institutions, including the more
efficient use of staff and of other resources. Internal restructuring activities will be encouraged through
the Competitive Teaching and Management Improvement Fund. Assistance is needed to implement the
proposed Higher Education Management Information System (HEMIS) Universities will need
assistance to prepare their own mid-term management information strategies. Funding for technical
assistance is sought for preparation of the strategies taking into account perfornance indicators. The
universities will receive co-financing from the CTMSHE on the basis of prepared management
information strategies.
Specifically, funding is required for:
* system developers to design the HEMIS;
*  purchase of computers, printers and network hardware for the MIS;
programmers to write system software; and
staff training.
Establishment of Student Loan and Stipend System - Assistance is sought for the elaboration of a
student loan and stipend system accessible for all students. Technical assistance is needed for
identification of the amount of the funds necessary for students crediting. Support for the reform of the
existing system is to be provided. Assistance for the design of a new law for student crediting is sought
following article 96 of the Higher Education Law. Specific funding is needed for establishment of an
entity to administer the new system.
Strengthening of the Quality Assurance System at University level. Assistance is sought for
establishment capacity for external audit of internal quality assurance systems in HE institutions.
Additional training and support for establishing a capacity of external auditors is envisaged together
with appropriate training and piloting to ensure independent evaluation and validation.
Improving Teaching Structures. Funding and technical assistance is sought for establishment of a
Competitive Teaching and Management Improvement Fund as well as additional support (training in
evaluation, assessment and monitoring) for financing HE projects, related to improvement of teaching
quality. Funding for procurement of modern equipment to improve the quality of teaching is envisaged.
Communications Strategy. - Funding is sought for publicity campaign for each of the components
described above. The MES, Higher Education Steering Committee, HR institutions, etc. will implement
this campaign.
In conclusion, this presentation of the state of the art in the field of education in Bulgaria and of the
strategic visions about its restructuring underscore the important role that we expect the World Bank
- 99 -



loan will play as a key tool for the successful implementation of the critical reforms already under
way in education sector.
Thanking you in advance for the kind attention you will devote to this matter, we remain
Sincerely Yours
Prof. Dimitar Dimitrov                           Muravei Radev
Minister of Education and Science                       Minister of Finance
- 100-



Additional
Annex No.: 13
Institutional Analysis and Implementation Responsibilities
An institutional assessment exercise was undertaken during the preparation of the project to: (a)
determine whether the MES has adequate capacity to implement the project and, if not, to identify activities
that would help develop that capacity during project implementation; and (b) identify opportunities for the
improvement of longer-term management capacity in the Ministry.
The assessment was conducted by the MES project preparation team with the support of a local
consultant and guidance from a World Bank expert. The following six questions guided the exercise:
* Has the MES working groups adequately analyzed the work involved in implementing each
component in the proposed project?
*0 Does the MES have a clear and adequate organizational home for all of its key functions, and is it
clear particularly which organizational unit in the Ministry will be responsible for managing each
of the component of the project?
*   Does the MES have managers in place in all of the units responsible for managing project
components? Will they be able to effectively lead and manage their units, and particularly the
project components assigned to them?
4o Based on the analysis of work, does each unit responsible for some project component have the
right number of people, with the right mix of skills, to implement the component - in addition to
carrying out its routine work?
:: Based on the analysis of work, is it clear what counterpart funds will have to be provided by the
Ministry in order to implement the project, and are arrangements in place to ensure that these funds
will be available?
:: How efficient and effective are current management practices in the MES?
:, Has the MES developed logistical plans for each component? Do these plans reflect efficient and
effective work practices?
The findings relating to these seven questions, and the actions carried out in each area, are summarized
briefly in the following paragraphs.
(a)    A detailed analysis of the work involved in implementing each component of the project was done
in order to ensure optimal design and to assess realistically both the resources and the time required for
implementation. The working groups that prepared the project were trained during preparation to perform
this analysis. They produced logistical plans for each component and used the plans to re-assess resources,
costs, and performance targets.
(b)    A clear assignment of, firstly, the management responsibility for each project component and,
secondly, the work responsibility for all activities included in each component, was done in order to ensure
efficient implementation. All components and activities must be clearly assigned to units and managers.
The working groups were trained to conduct a work breakdown analysis to facilitate the optimal
assignment of these responsibilities. However, since the MES has been undergoing a major reorganization
during the preparation of the project, at the beginning it was difficult to establish in all cases where will the
management responsibility for several key components lie. Some unit managers were unwilling to accept
responsibility, arguing that they were not sure whether their unit will continue to be the organizational
homne for the functions and activities in question, and whether they will remain the managers of these units.
- 101 -



This issue was dealt with during appraisal and immediately thereafter. An agreement which clarifies both
management responsibility and work responsibilities for all components was reached. A list of components
by management responsibility is included at the end of this annex.
(c) Management skills and management practices in the MES are weak; management procedures can
be greatly improved. This is an important area requiring attention, to help improve both the implementation
of the proposed project and of the Ministry's overall capacity. To address this issue the project will support
a series of activities aimed at improving, modernizing and strengthening management practices. They will
consist of short-term, modular training activities, highly focused on specific management practices. The
implementation of this sub-component will be responsibility of the PCU and will start immediately upon
effectiveness
(d)    The logistical plans developed for all project components, allowed MES to check the realism of its
assumptions regarding the number of staff required to implement these components, their skills and the time
they will require to complete implementation. The plans helped also in reviewing the costs of project
components and providing to the MES a realistic indication of the necessary counterpart funding.
Based on the work done and on these considerations, the Bank team concluded that the MES has the core
capacity to start the implementation of the project, but that given the current organizational changes in the
Ministry it was important to include as part of the project some management training and development
activities to enhance the Ministry's capacity to implement the general plan to modernize the sector and the
proposed project.
Implementation Responsibilities Matix
I. GENERAL EDUCATION COMPONENT
PROJECT
SUB-COMPONENT                                 MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY
CURRICULUM                                    Head of Directorate "General Education""
Sub-Component Obiective 1.1: To introduce a
standards-based national curriculum
ASSESSMENT                                    Head of Directorate "General Education"
Sub-Component Obiective #1.2: To monitor and
evaluate the outcomes of the school system through
the creation of a national student assessment system
INSPECTIONS                                   Head of Directorate "General Education"
Sub-Component Obiective #1.3: To support the
new curriculum by strengthening the role of the
Inspectorate in the assessment of school
performance
TEACHER TRAINING                              Head of Directorate "General Education"
Sub-Component Objective #1.4: To improve the
national capacity to deliver high quality,
cost-effective and relevant in-service training for
teachers, school directors and local education
administrators
- 102 -



DELEGATED BUDGETS                            Head of Direction "Labor management and
Sub-Component Obiective #2.1: To promote     regulation in the education and science systems"
efficiency, flexibility and innovation in schools by
giving school directors more discretion over the
financial management and internal organization of
their schools
OPTIMIZATION OF SCHOOL NETWORK               Head of Directorate General "Central School
Sub-Component Obiective #2.2: To encourage and Inspectorate"
facilitate further optimization of the school network
EMI;S                                        Head of the Directorate "Information Technologies"
Sub-Component Obiective #2.3: To enhance the
capacity of the MES to develop policies, monitor
quality and promote efficient management of the
education service system through the introduction of
an education management information system
(EMIS).
PC U                                         Secretary General of MES
Sub-Component Obiective #3.1: To support the
implementation of the project through the
establishment of a Project Co-ordination Unit (PCU)
II. IIIGHER EDUCATION COMPONENT
RESOURCE ALLOCATION                          Head of Directorate "State policy in Higher
Component Obiective 1.:                      Education"
To improve efficiency and
effectiveness in allocating
resources to HEI's
Component Objective 2.:                      Head of Directorate "Finance"
To retain the accessibility to higher
education in Bulgaria
Component Objective 3.:                      Head of Directorate "State Policy in Higher
To improve the quality of teaching & learning and   Education"
the management of institutions
- 103 -



Additional
Annex No.: 14
Competitive Teaching and Management System For Higher Education
Objectives
The priorities of the Competitive Teaching and Management System for Higher Education (CTMSHE) are
to promote improvement of management practices, including de establishment of quality assurance
mechanism, and teaching and learning conditions in Bulgarian higher education (HE) institutions.
To achieve these goals CTMSHE will finance projects prepared by higher education institutions aimed at
reforming and improving its institutional management, internal quality assurance procedures, and teaching
and learning processes. Higher education institutions will receive the funds provided by the CTMSHE as
grants. They must put in place reliable mechanism to manage and monitor the uses of funds, and to produce
regular reports showing how the funds are being used and assess their impact.
The CTMSHE will have two components. One will support improvement of management and internal
quality assurance mechanisms in HE institutions, while the other will support the improvement of teaching
and leaming conditions, including reform of curriculum, improvement of teaching processes and conditions,
upgrading of teaching skill of its faculty, updating and increasing teaching equipment and materials,
modernizing libraries, etc.
Operation of the CTMSHE
To ensure the operation of the CTMSHE according to principles of transparency, democratic management,
pluralism and competence, the organizational structure of the CTMS will be collegiate, having at the top a
five member Executive Council (EC) responsible for ensuring that the CTMS operates according to its
stated objectives. The chair-person of the CTMS will be the Deputy Minister of Higher Education, the
other members of the system will be appointed by the Deputy Minister of HE following wide consultations
with the higher education academic community, non-governmental organizations with links to higher
education and the business community. Before the final appointment of the members of the EC, the
Council of Rectors will be asked for its opinion. The members of the EC will be members of the higher
education academic community of high academic reputation and representatives of the business community
with links to higher education.
The functions of the Executive Council would be to: (i) supervise the management of the operation of the
CTMS; (ii) control the observation of the regulations related to its operation; (iii) determine annual
priorities for the preparation and evaluation of projects, subject to consultation with the HE Department of
MES; (iv) set the criteria for project evaluation in consultation with the HE Department of MES and the
Council of Rectors; (v) select the members of Peer Review Committees; (vi) ensure transparency of all
phases of project evaluation; (vii) make the final decision on financing the approved projects; (viii) request
from the Executive Directorate to prepare and deliver analytical reports on the outcome of the subsidized
CTMS components in view of providing grounds for better operation; (ix) determine penalties for poor
performance of approved projects; (x) contract surveys on the impact of the projects financed by the
CTMS on the HE institutions; (xi) suggest to the HE Department of MES the establishment of new
components or elimination of existing one; (xii) keep MES and WB informed about the development of the
CTMS operation; and (xiii) collaborate in finding new funding sources for the CTMS.
- 104 -



Organizational Structure of the CTMS
The other collegiate bodies of the CTMS will be the International Supervising Committee (ISC), the
Advisory Committees (AC) and the Peer Review Committees. The management of the CTMS will be
responsibility of the office of the Executive Directorate (ED).
The International Supervising Committee will serve as a guarantee that the principles of the operation of
the CTMS shall be observed and confidence in it will be built. It will consist of seven members with high
academic reputation. Three of the members shall be from outside Bulgaria. The committee shall meet once
a yeavr to: (i) monitor the transparency in the operation of the CTMS; (ii) assess the efficiency of the
management of the CTMS; (iii) make specific recommendations related to the tools, activities and projects
that it sees necessary to create, expand, correct or termninate; (iv) prepare reports on the development of the
program in the framework of the suggested objectives, and in particular on the quality of the activities and
the efficiency of the participating HE institutions both in the academic and in the institutional aspect; and
(v) m,ake suggestions for new orientation of the operation of the CTMS when seen as necessary.
The Elxecutive Directorate (ED) will be the administrative body responsible for the operation of the CTMS.
Its main functions will be to: (i) implement the decisions of the Executive Council; (ii) manage the subsidies
of the CTMS; (iii) organize and manage the competitive process of the CTMS; (iv) monitor the correctness
of the applying and evaluation process of projects submitted to the CTMS; (v) submit the approved project
to the advisory committees to assess them, after evaluating its eligibility; (vi) ; provide conditions for the
work of the committees and the project reviewers for the evaluation of the projects; (vii) prepare evaluation
repoits for the Executive Council concerning the funding of projects and programs depending on the
recommendations given by the advisory committees; (viii) report the CTMS operation results to the
Executive Council; (ix) create and maintain reviewers data base; and (xi) provide support and consulting to
HE institutions as requested by them for the development of projects in compliance with the CTMS
objectives.
The staff of the ED will consist of an executive director, an accountant, three experts responsible for the
initial assessment of the applying process and for monitoring the approved ones, and expert in information
technology, a technical assistant. The executive director will be selected by the Executive Council on a
competitive basis and shall be appointed by the Minister of Education.
The Advisory Committees (AC) will be formed on the basis of the number of CTMS components. Initially
it will consist of two committees: one shall be responsible for activities related to improvement of teaching
and leaming, the other shall work on issues related to improvement of management efficiency and quality
assurance mechanisms. Each AC will consist of seven members who will meet in accordance with the
approved project evaluation schedule and will be remunerated for its work. The main function of the ACs
will be to analyze and the peer reviewers' evaluations and rate the evaluated projects according to the
CTNIS's priorities. They will make recommendations to the EC for final project approval. The AC
members shall be appointed by the Deputy Minister of HE in broad consultation with the Council of
Rectors. The shall come from different [HE institutions and different parts of the country, with appointment
lasting four years.
The Peer Review Committees (PRC) will be responsible for evaluating the technical and academic merits of
each project, and their feasibility and expected long term impact. The members of the PRCs shall be
appointed by the EC based on recommendations made by the Executive Director. A reviewer shall not
participate in the evaluation of project submitted by her/his institution or by persons with whom he/she is
up to the third degree relationship. The shall be appointed for the period of evaluation of each contest and
will not receive remwueration.
- 105 -



Institutional Eligibility
Projects of state HE institutions and their structural units (departments, institutes and so on) shall be
eligible for subsidies from the CTMS. Joint projects of several universities or departments thereof shall be
eligible for fund subsidies, they will have priority since the project effect will be multiplied. Joint projects
provide better possibilities for the mobility of students, post-graduate students and academic staff. They
are help create conditions for changing the structure of the network of HE institutions and merging
individual institutions. Applying for particular projects shall have the explicit approval of the leaderships
of the participating HE institutions for the implementation of the planned objectives. The provisions of the
agreements between the parties participating in the projects shall be clearly stated when applying for funds.
University departments shall be eligible for fund subsidies if they are sponsored by their universitieg.
To be eligible for fund subsidies, the universities shall confinn their compliance to the following
conditions: (i) transfer the funds to those who will implement the project without any delay or reallocation;
(ii) implement a project monitoring information CTMS and shall provide access to the project monitoring
and financial control information to authorized fund representatives; (iii) sign an agreement with the CTMS
that shall determine in detail the legal and financial responsibilities of the implementation of the projects;
(iv) set up a project executive unit that shall be coordinated by a person who is responsible for projects
administration and for the relations with the CTMS; and (v) prepare systematic self-evaluation programs in
agreement with the existing regulations.
Funding of Projects
Projects presented to the CTMS will receive financing from the following sources: (i) the loan from the
World Bank; (ii) the Ministry of Education and Science; and (iii) each institution. The CTMS will cover
one hundred percent of fresh resources required for the implementation of each project with 80 percent
coming form the World Bank loan and 20 percent coming form MES. In addition, each institution will be
required to put as counterpart a contribution equivalent to 15 percent of the cost of the proposal to cover
recurrent expenses of the approved project.
It is expected that the allocation of fund subsidies will be done according to the following proposed
allocation table.
Project Type               Goods          Scholarships         Consultant &          Total
Visiting Prof.
HE self evaluation         8%             3%                   4%                    15%
Quality improvement        35%            15%                  5%                    55%
Management Improvement   23%               3%                  4%                    30%
Total                      66%            21%                   13%                  100%
- 106-



Project Evaluation, Selection and Approval
Each project will be subjected to three types of evaluation. The first one will be an eligibility evaluation to
determrine if the project meets with the eligibility conditions set by the EC. This evaluation will be done at
the level of the Executive Directorate. The second one will be a technical evaluation done by the peer
reviewers to assess the technical, academic, feasibility and sustainability of each project. This evaluation
will be done by the peer reviewers. The final one will be a priority evaluation to rank the approved projects
and select the most relevant according to priority criteria set by the EC. This final evaluation will be done
by the Advisory Committee. The following flow chart show this process.
University                   Project evaluation and approval
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I    fl                   ~~~~~~Approved
ll ED      Eligible
I           ~~~~I PC             iAC                                EC
Not eligible  |
Rejected          Non   |           |Non
l   l   l   : ReJectePriorized |     approved
- - - - - - - - - - - -_   - - - - - - - - - - - - - !  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- -   v - - - - - - --
Picture 1
- 107 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 26532
2-           22                                    24>                        5                         6                          7      
jj/9_                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T. B-chars ..... I
' ;t?K h ~~~R                                 O M    A  N    I A  /_4-
44'                                                                                                                                                                                                           A4o+
: z,t    } ua--lo,.t                                                                                                                 Alft.afad^'.
'ol          CobGb>$ya                                                                                                             :\'                   T Cnbai
t  Koe[nty    4'  ,r>17kt C^    ,rTornu Mogurele        tb>7         R A Z G R A D  Todo,eo vO-   (Kom *
FED. R E P. 3'. qI~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~\/    Oldk                              >0kookoono
Shob--
FED.  REPudc l A. 0     CbNoo            N                A                                              oeneeM lN  F              VARNA          Soooio   KTono /
OF                                                     o,  R.>:npotye                                                     So_ S>.k.yoo--SenK-1-
YUGOSLAVIA                 \L.k a 0Chlr --                              okrA    Kon         o            00 N.     Pepkon                       0NooPooo                 ; ?klok.t
(SERBIA/MONT.)                 \Menrkooioe0  BIe.lon      ro V3                                                      -          Eekhnob (                   .  Pok
.CSo'5ninRi       ,.    ZIornb~PooeEo0   L 4V    'C t i              ee  Q-yosk eo.edto                  eeoo     P oiyo9        e l,
t' "~ okoo                                         -               6<> Se0hepoo ee        ,          (_   r--.>   .J                  < dS>ioOnygfko.o    B  I a  c  k
Beoh-jnec FTI  0 0l Kionioo0                   C 7.                           rKkt                                                                       S De1
RorRyp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                                1             dS.  0y.1ka 
d-                 g          rad op  <SnovreA  >   P                                                                                                   eo 
Peonk   >'t5~'$Y                 (0 ik                                         SIS:07   -ivn  
Po- k                                                            KoD ....                                                      0NoKo-bnt
0)                                                ele~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1f,n                        Ko-neno
/  0Dobi 5)   Dobr na Ftone9 .          , 0 P.noish~                     doonvo            Snngrod27' T URKE R Gn A2'
RM6e A CSOFIA    so                                               So    ro0 eaoi                                 Reenor       orgoS
V      _i. K_no  (0             7s~Zo                                                    .    egen ,r'  9U  GASoro     , ,.
DJTo                       -k                                       K   H *AOSEKLQEVT   I.                   AT
0>0mev                2lk ]<.i                         Pno      h               j                                                                         ninoeS tok   D-AS    CP
s  < p/ d t 4 s k f ,RI                             a<          _, -~                                                                                   -  OBAT ONDRE
b  FED  REP   .   K- o -e
Rio e                        _3 ekg 0RetokSe ct/ VD-V   hook   2 0  dO 60l  O I DO
pPi-ko                             0ki daba                                                                                                          rKLM E
Pt    -fi ,.3
uS    24AC3DIl; - S_bn nobe r                                  -~                 / --0MohlsmppdcdyhMpesogto TUeWRKEY
~0>                                                          --TK- -
tANISAr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D6                                                                                                            27Mt T UR K EY                                         2?  ~/-  o_1  npd   Ipy ntapr
FYR                                >e R  r   on5, 26ti_J% ospon                    (und-ri<GtS-ly-  N M 199 6
.  ~ ~   ~        ~         enroh,Ignod  - -               s~~~~~~~~~~. a,
MACEDONIA               PeT>0                                                                                    - orn  -   Cv('
22                         Wnoh~~~T 5,1-1,d                     So/%                                                      5                             BULGARIA
(~~~~~~~0)                                .t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~~~~0' ~~~~~~~~0    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
23  ->                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OBLAST CAPITALS
//      Au                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G   R  E  E  C  E   Jo*                                                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL
V                    4                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROADS
ROMANIA                                                                                                                         41                      4    PORTS
41>  ->                                                                                 -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
FED RP L---R-   ?              Son-,><                                                                            ,   t4- 0/ATRO5DRI2 bu
-~~~~~~~~~  4                                                                  ----''< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
djSAT.P)                                                                                                                           c~~~~~TLJR  EYhe.- o- Ahie mop do not 'plT -n ho porno The World Book Gr-p.
R...-OEC     Ao:oS                                                                                                              >                     orooopnoooeofou-hke-ndo-oo
NOVEMBER 1996



