                  Document of
              The World Bank




                                             Report No: 29931

    IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                  (SCL-45760)

                     ON A

            LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

IN THE AMOUNT OF US$14.39 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                    TO THE

           REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA

                    FOR AN

          Education Modernization Project




               September 29, 2004

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective September 29, 2004)

                               Currency Unit = Euro
                                      Euro 1 = US$ 1.59
                                      US$ 1 = EUR 0.63

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1   December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AC      Advisory Committee
APL     Adaptable Program Loan
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CC      Curriculum Council
CRC     Curriculum Resource Center
CTMSHE  Competitive Teaching and Management System for Higher Education
DGE     Directorate General of Education of MES
ExecC   Executive Council
ED      Executive Directorate
EC      Expert Commission
EMIS    Education Management Information System
EU      European Union
FMSE    Financial Management of School Education
GEMIS   General Education Management Information System
GIS     Geographic Information System
HE      Higher Education
HEI     Higher Education Institution
HEMIS   Higher Education Management Information System
HESC    Higher Education Steering Committee
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
ILO     International Labor Organization
ISC     International Supervising Committee
MES     Ministry of Education and Science
MOF     Ministry of Finance
NAU     National Assessment Unit
NES     National Education Standards
OSF     Open Society Foundation
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PAL     Programmatic Adjustment Loan
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
PDO     Project Development Objective
QER     Quality Enhancement Review
RAC     Resource Allocation Committee
RCF     Resource Center Foundation
RI      Regional Inspectorate
RSG     Regional Support Group
SLA     Student Loan Agency

SPPO    School Place Planning and Optimization System
SSAS    Social and Sports Activity Sector Unit
TA      Technical Assistance
WG      Working Group



                            Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                          Country Director     Anand Seth
                           Sector Manager      Maureen McLaughlin
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Reema Nayar

                                          BULGARIA
                               Education Modernization Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            17
6. Sustainability                                                                18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
8. Lessons Learned                                                               23
9. Partner Comments                                                              25
10. Additional Information                                                       37
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             38
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             41
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             44
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             45
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             48
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                49
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            50

Project ID: P055158                                                  Project Name: Education Modernization Project
Team Leader: Reema Nayar                                             TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Education Modernization Project                          L/C/TF Number: SCL-45760
   Country/Department: BULGARIA                                                           Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Tertiary education (35%); Secondary education (22%); Primary
                            education (22%); Central government administration (12%);
                            Sub-national government administration (9%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Administrative and civil service reform (P);
                            Social risk coping (S); Social analysis and monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/23/1999                                     Effective: 01/10/2001                01/10/2001
     Appraisal: 02/10/2000                                         MTR: 12/02/2002                  12/02/2004
      Approval: 09/05/2000                                      Closing: 03/31/2004                 03/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND SCIENCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Anand K. Seth                                  Andrew Vorkink
Sector Manager:                 Maureen McLaughlin                             James Socknat
Team Leader at ICR:             Reema Nayar                                    Ernesto P. Cuadra
ICR Primary Author:             Ferda Sahmali


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

         Educational policy and the content of education in Bulgarian schools and universities
started to change in the early 1990s. The first, formal step in this transformation was signaled by
the National Education Act, signed into law on October 18, 1991.              Since then, successive
Bulgarian governments have supported this enabling act with numerous subsidiary laws and
regulations dealing with different elements of the education system. Aiming at assisting Bulgaria
improve overall resource management, raising the quality of teaching and learning in both general
(primary and secondary) education and in higher education institutions, and increasing equity in
higher education (HE) without sacrificing the already high levels of access to higher education,
the Bank helped        the Government prepare a broad program of activities that would be
implemented in three phases over a period of nine years. The Bank intended to support these
broad objectives with a flexible program of assistance in the form of a three-phase Adaptable
Program Loan (APL). Although the program was designed to be phased in by means of three
projects, only phase one was designed and implemented, namely the Education Modernization
Project.

         The first phase was planned to have a duration of three years. Systemic reform in the
education sector was part of a broader effort in Bulgaria to reform the public sector by
decentralizing state functions and reconfiguring central ministries. Part of this broader reform
required modernizing state institutions, establishing new organizational structures, developing
greater technical capacity, and setting the necessary foundation for the reform. In line with this,
the first phase of the APL was designed to establish the institutional foundations for modernizing
the education system.

         The second phase was planned to last for another three years and consist of activities
aimed at supporting the implementation of new standards, improving teaching and learning
conditions in education institutions, improving resource management in education institutions,
establishing a new system of resource allocation in HE, and facilitating equal access to HE
institutions. During this phase, the program would finance interventions aimed at improving: (i)
professional skills of staff working in the education sector; (ii) the provision of modern education
materials and equipment; (iii) planning, monitoring and evaluation capacity of the education
system; (iv) the resource allocation system in HE; (v) management of resources in HE; and (vi)
the capacity of the HE system to introduce student fees while maintaining the current levels of
access.

         The third phase was also planned to have a duration of three years and focus on adjusting
and consolidating the changes introduced during the previous two phases and establishing a
demand-driven system of in-service teacher training.

         The Education Modernization Project--Phase 1 of a Three Phase APL, September
2000-March 2004. During phase one, the program was designed to create the conditions for a
more efficient use of financial, physical and human resources, to enhance the quality of the



                                                - 2 -

teaching force, and to improve the learning process in primary, secondary and higher education
institutions. Therefore, the first APL was designed to concentrate on changing the institutions
(norms and regulations); establishing the structures (directorates, centers, boards, steering
committees, independent institutes); developing the technical capacity (management information
system, methodology for optimization of the network of schools and HE institutions, and student
assessment); and setting the foundations required for: (i) successfully introducing new resource
allocation mechanisms, and new standards-based curriculum, and programs of study; (ii)
modernizing management practices; (iii) improving teaching approaches; (iv) establishing a
demand-driven teacher in-service training systems; (v) establishing a new system of education
monitoring and evaluation; and (vi) establishing a new student loan and stipend system.

         As stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the Development Objectives (DOs)
of APL 1 were creating the conditions for: (1) enhancing the quality of the teaching force and
improving the learning processes in primary and secondary schools, (2) more efficient use of
financial, physical and human resources in primary and secondary schools, (3) enhancing the
quality of the teaching force and improving the learning process in higher education institutions,
and, (4)   more efficient use of financial, physical and human resources in higher education
institutions.

3.2 Revised Objective:

Not applicable.

3.3 Original Components:

The Loan contained six components:

         Component 1 - Create conditions for improving the quality of the teaching force and
learning processes in primary and secondary schools (USD 5.22 million): (1.1) Development
of new curriculum and teaching approaches, and establishment of a student assessment system,
and (1.2.a) Awareness-raising training in new standards and curriculum implemented and planning
for systematic training delivered and (1.2.b) Development of Ministry of Education and Science
(MES) capacity for stimulating the creation of demand-led in-service training system.

         Component 2 - Create conditions for improving overall resource management in
primary and secondary schools (USD 6.13 million): (2.1) Extension of Delegated Budget
Program; (2.2) Strengthening MES capacity for providing technical support to municipalities for
the optimization of the school network; (2.3) Establishment of a General Education Management
Information System (GEMIS) in the MES at the secondary level.

         Component 3 - Create conditions for improving overall resource management in
higher education institutions (USD 0.45 million):          (3.1) Reform of resource allocation
processes and seats in Higher Education; (3.2) Establishment of a Higher Education Management
Information System (HEMIS) in the MES.

         Component 4 - Establish a student loan program and reform of existing system of


                                               - 3 -

stipends (USD 0.23 million).

        Component 5 - Create a competitive teaching and Management System for Higher
Education (CTMSHE) for improving teaching and resource management (USD 5.59
million).

        Component 6 - Strengthen MES internal management capacity for project
management and communications (USD 0.67 million): (6.1) Establishment of a
Program/Project Coordination Unit; (6.2) Design and implement a communications campaign.

        The components were clearly linked to the PDOs.           The Project supported the top
priorities outlined in the Government's program. The component activities were the necessary
actions to achieve the Development Objectives (DOs). The Project was the first Bank-financed
education project in Bulgaria, and experiences and lessons learned from other development
agencies projects, such as EU-PHARE projects and Bank-financed projects in other sectors were
incorporated into the design of the project.

3.4 Revised Components:

Not applicable.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

        The ICR performance rating for quality at entry is satisfactory. There are several reasons
for this conclusion. First, the Project Development Objectives (PDOs) were consistent with the
sector-related 1998 CAS goals, which supported the Governments' effort to fight poverty and
develop human capital. The CAS was intended to support measures designed to arrest the
deterioration in education quality, increase the efficiency of resource allocation, and improve
equity in the education sector. There was also a high degree of ownership by the counterpart at
the time of project preparation and launch.

        Second, the actual content of the project, which was designed by the Government in very
close collaboration with the World Bank team, reflected the Government's priorities in the sector.
During the preparation of the project, the Bank, in cooperation with MES, arranged a series of
video conferences, workshops and meetings to assist MES in determining the education strategy,
which did not exist before the project preparation. These discussions provided an opportunity for
senior officials, including a group of MES staff, to develop a vision to guide the MES's efforts to
modernize the sector, and also to propose a series of strategic objectives and activities to achieve
that vision. The Bank also assisted MES to prioritize the objectives and activities that would
guide the work of MES in the sector.

        Third, the PDOs were quite relevant for Bulgaria, as the project was seen as a first step in
reforming the education system after the Communist rule ended in November 1989. Lessons
from several PHARE and other Bank-financed projects were incorporated into the design of the
project. Although the project design was appropriate, it was complex and thus, it was quite
challenging for the MES, which had no prior experience in implementing a Bank-financed project.


                                                - 4 -

        Quality Enhancement Review. Responding to the request by the Task Team Leader and
the Europe and Central Asia (ECA) Region of the Bank, the Quality Assurance Group (QAG)
and Human Development (HD) Network convoked a Quality Enhancement Review (QER) panel
to assess the project design during the identification and preparation period. The QER panel's
report, dated October 15, 1999, highlighted a number of factors which had an important bearing
on the challenges and opportunities facing the education sector in Bulgaria: (i) growing public
pressure to reverse the erosion of education quality in a challenging new environment; (ii) rising
levels of dissatisfaction among education system stakeholders with educational performance
following the resolution of political and economic crises; (iii) increasing demand for systemic
reform in the education sector, which would have a large impact on an ongoing public sector
reform; (iv) the call for a systemic, rather than piece-meal, education reform, involving a profound
redirection of resources and restructuring of expenditures in order to tackle problems such as
reductions in the teaching staff and the consolidation of the school system network in response to
an environment incapable of generating large increases in public budgets for education; and (v)
the need to change the "fundamental mind set" of people of Bulgaria to help them acquire a very
different constellation of knowledge, skills, attitudes and values to become full partners in Europe
and in a globally interdependent world.

        In the QER report, the panel assessed the Bulgarian education reform, discussed the
implications for the Bank's involvement in support of that reform, and provided a number of more
specific technical comments on aspects of Bank intervention.

        The QER panel confirmed the national ownership for the project, but at the same time
highlighted that the Government had a great deal of work to do in order to reform its education
sector.   This included: further elaboration of the policy, legislative, and regulatory frameworks;
development and dissemination of comprehensive and internally coherent reform strategies;
strengthening of key institutions; carrying out broader consultation with stakeholders; and
conducting a mass communications effort.         The need to formulate an overall reform program,
especially in general education, was stressed.

        The QER indicated that the direction of reform was consistent with overall public sector
decentralization, and emphasized the need for a functional shift in the role of the central ministry
from a norm-based control to an a institution-based control with local fiscal responsibility and
accountability. It further stressed the need to shift higher education funding allocations to a more
student-centered approach and to a changing needs of the labor market.

        The QER panel also pointed out its concern with the capacity and readiness of
organizations that could play an important role in a reform initiative. The Panel indicated that
moving forward with the reform program too quickly might precipitate unevenness in
implementation, cause delays in some areas, generate overall frustration, and even risk derailing
the reform effort. Another very important issue emphasized by the Panel was the resistance to a
reform of such magnitude. The panel indicated that resistance could come from the teaching staff,
who would be downsized, faculty whose subjects are in low demand or dated, central



                                                  - 5 -

administrative authorities whose functions will shift away from the accustomed command and
control, the general public and nationalist political organizations who remain convinced that input
(syllabus) requirements equal quality standards in education.             The Panel suggested that
Government would need to work through a strategy to address these potential pockets of
resistance.

        In line with this analysis, the Panel's central finding was that the Bank would best serve its
client by adopting a programmatic approach to building and sustaining a long term relationship in
support of a comprehensive reform of Bulgaria's education sector. It recommended that the most
appropriate lending instrument would be an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) to be phased over a
number of years, rather than a highly complex, multi-component, one-shot investment project as
originally proposed by the Bank team. The panel justified this recommendation by stating that an
APL would be able to provide a flexible, comprehensive range of Bank resources and products
more consistent with the nature and pace of the anticipated sector-wide reform. At the same time,
it suggested to the team that the Bank's response should also be characterized by speed and
imagination, as well as explicit agreement from the outset that the Bank's engagement would
comprise of several discrete interventions over a decade or more, each triggered by attainment on
the ground of pre-specified performance benchmarks. It was emphasized in the QER Report that
these sequence of focused activities would involve the work of management and staff outside the
education sector in order to be more credible with the Bulgarian central financial authorities. The
Panel also suggested that the authorities in both Bulgaria and the Bank should take lessons from
the unusually high quality consultant reports financed through the Bank-executed PHRD grant, as
well as from the work undertaken by EU-PHARE and the Soros Foundation.

        The QER panel provided the team with the following summary advice:

        1. support the entire reform process and program;

        2. provide support over the long-run since reform of education systems is an iterative
            process that takes a long time (ten years or more);

        3. be responsive to the Bulgarian request for moral, intellectual and financial support, and
            a demonstration of external verification from the Bank;

        4. be responsive to pace of reform, shifting challenges and other partners;

        5. leverage other external partners (donors) into supporting the reform program;

        6. have a set of agreed performance benchmarks;

        7. prepare a small lending operation as the first phase of the APL to demonstrate the
            Bank's support for the reform program and to establish the Bank as a credible partner;
            and,

        8. limit the first lending operation to support reform elements that were ready for
            implementation, preparing the groundwork for other aspects of the reform and
            arranging subsequent lending operations and non-lending services at a pace dictated by
            local circumstances and need.




                                                  - 6 -

        The task team followed the QER panel's guidance. No separate QAG assessment was
carried out.

        The Bank did foresee the risks associated with the implementation of the project. As
stated in the PAD and the QER, the MES lacked the capacity to reform its internal structure, to
change regulations and to implement the project and move to implementing the successive phases
of the project. All the same, the Bank considered that the potential benefits outweighed the risks
and went ahead with its support for a three phase APL, beginning with the Education
Modernization Project (EMP).

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The overall outcome of the Project is rated unsatisfactory as the project failed to achieve its
development objectives and did not yield the envisaged outcome indicators as outlined in the PAD
Log-Frame.

Development Objective 1:          Creating the conditions for enhancing the quality of the
teaching force and improving the learning processes in primary and secondary schools.
The achievement of this DO is rated unsatisfactory.

l Curriculum Council (CC): The CC was planned as an advisory body to MES with a wide
    representation of the MES leadership and the general public. The CC was constituted by a
    Ministerial order in May 2000 as a condition of presentation of the project to the Board of
    Directors of the Bank, and the official document concerning its structure was only put into
    force in February 2002, but the members of the Board were not nominated, operational
    procedures of the CC were not prepared and evaluated until April 2003, and therefore no
    training was provided to its members. Foreign Technical Assistance (TA) contracted for this
    activity was not used effectively due to continuous changes in the TOR (institutional building,
    training etc.) and amendments to the contract of the TA Consultant. With Ministerial order
    dated April 4, 2003, 13 members (seven university professors, five representatives of MES ­
    Deputy Minister for Primary and Secondary Education, as a chairman, the Director of the
    National Assessment Unit (NAU), two headmasters, one teacher and one representative of a
    business association) were finally nominated to the CC. The CC met twice between June and
    October, 2003, but did not engage in curriculum development and no National Curriculum
    Framework was developed within the timeframe of the Project. As a result, this situation did
    not provide a platform to develop a clear vision and strategy for the curriculum development
    nor any mechanism to facilitate public participation in the development of content for the
    education during the Project cycle.

l The CC was working on the draft Strategy for the Development of Secondary Education
    System in Bulgaria when the last supervision mission of the Bank was conducted in December
    2003.    The final strategy became one of the inputs in the preparation of the Second
    Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL 2) dialogue, as well as the MES budgetary planning for
    the next few years.



                                               - 7 -

l Curriculum Resource Center (CRC): The CRC was envisaged in the project as an institution
  providing reference materials, periodicals, computers and information. The premise for a
  CRC was promulgated in 2001 and the CRC was formally established at the end of 2002.
  Only technical equipment and furniture were procured during the life of the project, and it was
  not enough to offer necessary facilities and tools to the curriculum development groups, and
  therefore not used as intended. The creation of other resource centers in the country, to help
  teachers understand the new curricula, was not realized during the life of the project.

l National Assessment Unit (NAU): In April, 2000, the NAU was established as a legal entity
  with a core staff of seven people, operational guidelines of the unit were approved, and a
  coordinator was appointed.       But, in order to make the NAU fully operational, other
  conditions were required, including the assignment of additional eight people, the utilization of
  support from international and local TA firms, the establishment of 15-20 expert groups for
  developing all relevant components of the national curriculum (state educational standards and
  learning plan), study programs or syllabi (Ucebni Programi in Bulgarian) by grade and
  subject, and the training of specialists who would be working in the expert groups to prepare
  study programs (for example, in the Fall 2002/2003 new programs for grade 1 and grade 12
  were entered into the system). Till the closing of the Project most of these conditions had not
  been fully met, clearly showing that NAU was not operational during the implementation
  period of the project.     Additionally, lack of a clear distribution of tasks between the
  Directorate General of Education (DGE) and NAU, and the absence of cooperation and
  communication between the two units, resulted that the tasks that were supposed to have been
  carried out by NAU, being done by DGE. A budget allocation for the NAU was not secured
  during the Project implementation phase either. The unit was headed by acting directors for
  more than a year.      Expert groups that were planned to work for NAU in developing
  assessment materials and the heads of these groups were not assigned. In sum, the NAU
  never achieved its purpose because of (i) the lack of a clear and strong leadership at NAU, (ii)
  a critical understaffing of the unit, (iii) a lack of strategic vision and planning, (iv) a lack of
  professional development for the staff necessary to fulfill the duties assigned to the unit, and
  (v) a series of managerial ambiguities concerning the relationship between NAU and DGE, as
  well as the task allocation between these two entities. As a result, most of the preparation
  work for the Matura Exam 2003 was undertaken by the DGE. Even though the contract was
  signed with the TA Consultant ­ CITO Group, at the beginning of 2002, the TA mostly
  worked with DGE but not NAU, regarding assessment activities. After the appointment of
  the new director for NAU on March 28, 2003, the unit needed to be re-created. Although the
  leadership and staff of the NAU were in place at project closing, none of these people were
  recruited through competitive recruitment and the staff were not prepared professionally and
  adequately. Additionally, refurnishing and equipping of the NAU was not realized, and even
  at the end of the project, NAU was not neither capable of taking on its key functions in terms
  of developing a new-style Matura examination, nor conducting formative assessments, nor
  creating assessment materials for schools. In a letter dated September 27, 2004 the MES
  reports that the NAU has now started performing its functions in the preparation of
  examination tests, Matura Exams etc.




                                                 - 8 -

l Training of teachers, school principals and Regional Support Groups (RSGs) in the new
  standards and curriculum: Cascade-type awareness-raising and practical knowledge seminars
  for current teachers, school principals and inspectors of the Regional Support Groups (RSGs)
  to disseminate the new curricula and standards were carried out, but only for 60% of grade 1
  and grade 12 teachers, school principals and inspectors. Although a detailed action plan to
  complete this training in 2003-04 for all teachers from grade 1 through 12 was drawn up by
  the WG with the help of the TA Consultant, it was not accomplished during the life of the
  project. Moreover, due to a lack of coordination between the Project staff and other MES
  staff, while the project was promoting the development of local providers of in-service
  training, parallel to this activity, MES, continued to create local centers for in-service training
  in their own manner without collaboration with the PCU.

l Training of teachers in grades 9 and 10: Training activities for a target group of teachers in
  grades 9 and 10 were not initiated during the life of the project.

l Two research studies related to the institutional framework and conditions necessary for the
  operation of a demand driven system of in-service training and for making initial
  recommendations for change were not carried out. Only one consultation seminar for 60
  participants to provide input on proposed plan for demand-driven system of in-service teacher
  training was held. A contract with an international consulting firm (Education Development
  Center, Inc.) was signed in December 2002, but was not made effective until April 2003.
  Delay in starting the TA contract resulted in additional delays and consequently the activities
  were not completed as planned.

l Consultation with Stakeholders:       The Ministry did not seek to solicit the involvement of
  teachers organizations/unions on the plans of future professional development of teachers. In
  addition, the parties failed to come to an agreement with stakeholders on the principles,
  design, and necessary legal/regulatory steps to create a "market" for in-service teacher
  training where schools have the power and resources to decide on their own staff
  development plans in relation to school quality.          Furthermore, no agreements among
  stakeholders on a model for improving teacher certification and teacher career structures in
  Bulgaria was secured.

l Preliminary plan for the design and implementation of a demand-led in-service teacher training
  system:    No progress was made on defining the principles, design and implementation
  conditions for a demand-driven system for in-service teacher training in Bulgaria.

Development Objective 2: Creating the conditions for more efficient use of financial,
physical and human resources in primary and secondary schools. The achievement of this
DO is rated unsatisfactory.

l Legislation to expand Delegated Budget: Although an initial evaluation study of the impact of
  delegated budget in 24 municipalities was conducted by a firm, ASIA, under the auspices of
  Open Society Foundation and an in-depth survey was carried out by Financial Management of
  School Education (FMSE) on the impact of delegated municipal budgets on school budgets,



                                               - 9 -

    clarification of the model of decentralization and reconciliation of contradictions in legislations
    governing school management and finance were not completed. The legal contradictions
    between the municipal laws and national education laws with respect to ownership and use of
    resources were not resolved during the life of the project. This issue was included in the
    policy agenda of Second Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL 2) program.

l General Education Management Information System (GEMIS): The GEMIS was not
    developed or implemented during the lifetime of the Project. According to the analysis of the
    project activities conducted by Association for Social Investigations and Applied Research
    Practices financed by the Open Society Foundation, one important reason for the failure in
    establishing GEMIS was a lack of effective demand for information and policy formulation,
    performance monitoring and decision making by the political leaders and senior officials at
    MES. Although the process of collecting core statistics had begun by the end of the project,
    the gap between collecting some education system statistics and the establishment of the
    GEMIS as described in the Project documents is very large.

Development Objective 3:          Creating the conditions for enhancing the quality of the
teaching force and improving the learning process in higher education institutions. The
achievement of this DO is rated as satisfactory.

For the implementation of the activities under the CTMSHE, the MES legally established a Center
responsible for managing the system and made it operational on March 2, 2001. Other structures,
such as the Higher Education Steering Committee (HESC), Executive Council, Advisory
Committee and International Supervisory Committee were also established and worked
effectively.

Development Objective 4: Creating the conditions for more efficient use of financial,
physical and human resources in higher education institutions. The achievement of this DO
is rated as unsatisfactory.


l Resource Allocation Committee (RAC):           A central element for the success of improving
    efficiency and effectiveness in allocating resources to Higher Education Institutions (HEIs)
    was the establishment of the RAC. The RAC was established by a Ministerial order on June
    7, 2001, was re-activated in May 2002. Finally, at the end of 2002, the RAC began to operate
    in conjunction with the TA Consultants ­ Helsinki Consulting Group. Mainly, during the
    implementation period of the project, the RAC did not act as an independent body to
    implement needed resource allocation reforms, as stipulated in the Project documents. The
    institutional framework of RAC was discussed at length in MES, but in the end RAC was
    formed as a committee subordinated within MES.

l Student Loan Agency (SLA):            During the implementation of the project, no serious
    consideration was given to the establishment of a separate loan agency as there was a
    continuing lack of leadership from the Working Group (WG). To focus responsibility in an
    accountable unit, more attention should have been given to the establishment of a separate



                                                - 10 -

    student loan agency within MES, much earlier in the process, rather than continuing to rely on
    an ineffectual WG to coordinate activities related to the development of a student loan
    program, including the conduct of workshops, development of financial models, and
    preparation of legislation at the appropriate time. Instead, as of May 2003, MES decided to
    expand the Social and Sports Activity Sector (SSAS) Unit in staff (from 3 to 6). The SSAS
    Unit became the office to assist the activity of retaining accessibility to higher education in
    terms of logistics, (i.e. to organize workshops and meetings to discuss models), as well as in
    substantive issues such as drafting legislations.

l HEMIS: Since the decision was taken to integrate the establishment of GEMIS and HEMIS,
    for the reasons as explained already, a full fledged HEMIS was not established.

4.2 Outputs by components:


Component 1: Create conditions for improving the quality of the teaching force and
learning processes in primary and secondary schools (US$ 5.22 million in PAD, US$ 1.15
million actual). This component is rated unsatisfactory.

        Sub-component 1.1 - National Education Standards, Standards-based Curriculum and
Programs, Student Assessment and Inspection System.               This sub-component is rated
unsatisfactory.   The objectives of this sub-component were to (a) contribute in building
sustainable expertise in curriculum development and implementation in MES, (b) help establish
the structures for sustainable curriculum development, (c) create an external system for student
assessment and evaluation, and (d) provide educational materials.

        This sub-component did not achieve its targets as indicated in the PAD (see Annex 1).
Key MES personnel were not trained in curriculum design and implementation and as the
development of curriculum standards were done by MES staff and with their own resources at the
beginning of project implementation, no loan financing was used for further technical assistance.
Actually, MES staff needed training related to team work and allocation of responsibilities, but
such training was not delivered by the Project. The CC was established but not fully operational
during the development of the National Curriculum Framework and the new curricular content.
CRC was established, but only some technical equipment and furniture were procured but not
used as intended by the curriculum development groups as it did not offer all necessary facilities
and tools. Similarly, NAU was not capable of taking on its key functions in terms of development
of the new-style Matura examination, formative assessments, or creating assessment materials for
schools. Loan funds were not used for production of new education materials.

        Sub-component 1.2 - In-service Teacher Training.           This sub-component is rated
unsatisfactory. The objectives of this sub-component were to (a) create a cascade system for
awareness-raising training, based on the training of trainers method, in new standards and
curriculum and plan for systematic training, and (b) improve MES capacity to organize
introduction of a new, competitive and demand driven in-service teacher training.

        The planned outputs established in the PAD for the Phase 1 of the Loan were not
achieved. Under the project, the following activities were meant to be conducted with the


                                                 - 11 -

assistance of the TA Consultancy ­ GOPA Consultants: A one-day consulting seminar for a target
group of 30 people (teachers of grades 1 to 12, school principals, deputy principals, and experts
from the RSGs, comprised of regional inspectors and municipal experts), was organized, but
instead of the target group, representatives of the Critical Thinking Program of MES attended the
seminar. Development of training packages for school principals, deputy principals, teachers of
grade 1 to 12, and RSGs, to be used in three-day training seminars, were completed. Three-day
introductory training of trainers seminars were organized for different target groups. Study tours
to Germany and Holland were organized for 10 MES representatives. One-day training of
trainers seminars were organized for 50 trainers for school principals, 50 trainers for grade 1
teachers, and 50 trainers for grade 12 teachers. Three-day training for 140 RSGs members in four
regions were conducted.       Design of the training evaluation system was initiated but not
completed. Development, printing and distribution of training packages for the training of schools
principals, deputy principals, and teachers were initiated but not completed. Logistical support
for training school principals, teachers of grades 1 and 12 was not organized properly. As the
consultants were not selected or the services were not contracted in accordance with the agreed
procedures in the Project documents (including the Loan Agreement), the contracts awarded to
the three tour operators for logistic support services for organizing teacher training across
Bulgaria were not financed by the Bank. The related portion of the Loan was cancelled and the
Bank declared misprocurement. MES did not want to hire two national consultants, therefore
made limited use of the TA.         Two research studies and one consultation seminar for 60
participants to provide input on proposed plan for demand-driven or the development of a
demand-led in-service teacher training were not conducted.

        Component 2: Create conditions for improving overall resource management in
primary and secondary schools (USD 6.13 million in PAD, USD 0.88 million actual). This
component is rated unsatisfactory.

        Sub-component 2.1 - Extension of Delegated Budget System. This sub-component is
rated unsatisfactory. The objectives of this sub-component were to (a) create and develop a
decentralized management of financial resources in general education, (b) advance the financial
independence of schools, (c) promote effective use of resources, and (d) create a mechanism and
also a tendency to manage resources cost-efficiently. Although the project foresaw that 30
municipalities would implement the delegated budget program in addition to the original 24, by
the end of the project only 37 municipalities (13 more than before the Project) covering 660
schools participated in the program. Initial training/guidance was provided to the municipalities
to prepare them for implementation. Printers and photocopiers were supplied to the schools in
the participating municipalities, but not computers. A twelve seat minibus was purchased for the
transportation of the trainers. The lack of clarity on the model of decentralization and the
limitations imposed by the national norms and regulations did allow principals some limited
latitude to use the resources for improving education quality and pursuing other educational
purposes, other than the payment of salaries to their staff. No independent impact evaluation
demonstrated improved quality and improved resource allocation in schools under the delegated
budget program.

        Sub-component 2.2 ­ School Network Optimization.            This sub-component is rated



                                                - 12 -

unsatisfactory.   The objectives of this sub-component were to help the MES, Regional
Inspectorates (RI) and the municipalities implement a program for closing down and restructuring
schools in order to guarantee equal access to quality education, despite the demographic decline
and the scarce financial resources. The implementation of this component was delayed, mainly
because of resistance from the staff responsible for its implementation at MES. The Bank
anticipated the resistance as a risk of the project. The project was designed to empower local
government to have them make "informed" decision on how to optimize their network. By the
end of the project, while 19 schools were closed, 14 were transformed and 1 hostel was newly
founded in 12 pilot municipalities in 11 regions, neither the methodology for a School Place
Planning and Optimization System (SPPO) was developed, nor the Geographic Information
System (GIS) to support the SPPO was established.

        Sub-component 2.3 ­ General Education Management Information System (GEMIS).
This sub-component is rated unsatisfactory. The objective of this sub-component was to improve
the capacity of MES for collecting, analyzing and distributing information necessary to implement
reforms in general education and optimize education management. This sub-component did not
achieve its objectives as capacity for information gathering and data analysis was not created at
MES by using loan and/or other funds. Implementation was suspended several times, with
delays/problems in selecting the TA consultant. Quality indicators were not developed, and
management responsibilities were not clarified for various levels of the education system.

Component 3: Create conditions for improving overall resource management in higher
education institutions (US$ 0.45 million in PAD, US$ 0.16 million actual). This component
is rated unsatisfactory.

        Sub-component 3.1 ­ Improving Efficiency and Effectiveness in Allocating Resources to
HEIs. This sub-component is rated unsatisfactory. The objectives of this sub-component was to
reform the allocation processes for resources and seats in higher education by introducing a
consultation process for deciding on the principles and priorities that would guide the new
allocation system, and the establishment of an administrative body to manage the allocation of
resources and seats. With the assistance of the TA Consultancy ­ Helsinki Consulting Group,
Resource Allocation Model was revised, refinements to the existing formula for resource
allocation was prepared and an initial set of indicators for the HEMIS were prepared. RAC
within MES was established. But as policy decisions on how to achieve efficiency in resource
allocation, on accreditation and internal quality assurance processes, and on legitimizing the role
of RAC were not taken, new allocation procedures were not adopted by the Parliament.

        Sub-component 3.2 ­ Establishing an Automated Higher Education Management
Information System (HEMIS) at the MES. This sub-component is rated unsatisfactory. The
objectives of this sub-component were to (a) create and equip a unit for establishing and
managing the information system, (b) design and validate data collection instruments and
processes, (c) train personnel to build capacity for analyzing and registering data. The planned
outputs established in the PAD for the Phase 1 of the Loan were not achieved due to the same
reasons mentioned under sub-component 2.3 (GEMIS).




                                                - 13 -

Component 4: Establish a student loan program and reform of existing system of stipends
(US$ 0.23 million in PAD, US$ 0.03 million actual). This component is rated unsatisfactory.

        The objectives of this component were to help the government develop a student loan
program and develop a financial model to estimate the costs of different financial arrangements.
The project envisaged the development of a student loan program and a reform of the existing
stipend system, but did not succeed in implementing these actions for two reasons. First, there
was an insufficient demand for student loans among the majority of university students because of
already low fees. Second, all of the other generic systemic issues discussed above, including a
lack of government ownership, lack of leadership from the WG, and lack of implementation
strategy with clear lines of authority and responsibility also negatively affected the achievements
of this component's objectives. The first activity under this component was to be the preparation
of a comprehensive study on the demand for student loans, which would include an examination
of the current system of stipends, an assessment of the impact of a system of uniform tuition fees,
and a review of alternative financing mechanisms.     This study was never carried out. In addition,
the project did not succeed in supporting the implementation of other important activities related
to the objectives of this component, including the establishment of a regional student loan
authority to serve as a source of loan capital, and the delivery of workshops on student loans for
the selected members of the Parliament, rectors, students, and other stakeholders. Finally, after
significant implementation delays, due to series of procedural and contractual problems in
preparing the terms of reference for consulting services to be procured, a contract was signed
with the local TA firm ­ Resource Center Foundation, on April 7, 2003, but only a few
intermediate products were produced due to limited time remaining until the closure of the project
on March 31, 2004.       One other factor was the lack of any organizational home in MES
responsible for implementation of this component. With the letter dated September 27, 2004 of
MES, it was reported that the draft bill for Student Loan is going to be brought by MES at the
National Assembly for enactment.

Component 5:       Create a Competitive Teaching and Management System for Higher
Education (CTMSHE) for improving teaching and resource management (US$ 5.59 million
in PAD, US$ 3.34 million actual). This is the only component of the project that is rated
satisfactory.

        The objectives of this component were to (a) help HEIs improve teaching and learning, (b)
establish operational internal quality assurance and professional management structures, (c)
reform curricula, (c) integrate teaching and learning, (d) provide new opportunities to young
academic staff, and (e) encourage the consolidation of higher education institutions to support
university network optimization.

        Relative to other components, implementation progress on this component was good.
The CTMSHE and its management structure were established and functioned effectively. With
the assistance of the TA Consultancy - Nottingham University Consultants, key staff were trained,
development of guidelines for bidding process was completed, the competitive system was
publicized, 13 training seminars for representatives of academic community were held, a media
campaign was organized, a web site was developed, and the evaluation of two rounds of



                                                - 14 -

proposals were completed and contracts worth about US$4 million were awarded. During the
first call for proposals, 183 projects were submitted and 35 projects were awarded, 27 of which
were targeted to improvement in teaching and learning conditions in higher education and 8 to
improve university management. During the second call, 97 projects were submitted and 50
projects were awarded, 3 of which were concerned with the quality assurance mechanisms and 47
to improve teaching and learning. Only a small fraction of proposals were aimed at addressing the
improvement of management practices, including the establishment of quality assurance
mechanisms. There are still important actions to be taken under this component. Specifically, an
independent evaluation of the impact of the fund projects on the quality of teaching and learning
processes should be conducted, and reasons for low level of proposals on management
improvement plans should be evaluated.

Component 6: Strengthen MES internal management capacity for project management
and communications (US$ 0.67 million in PAD, US$ 0.35 million actual). This component is
rated unsatisfactory.

        The objectives of this component were to strengthen MES internal management capacity
for project management and communication.

        Sub-component 6.1 ­ Establishment of PCU. This sub-component is rated unsatisfactory.
The objectives of this sub-component were to establish a small PCU to monitor and provide
support to line units within MES during project implementation and Higher Education Steering
Committee (HESC) to coordinate the implementation of the different higher education
sub-sectors. Due to lack of greater attention from the MES leadership to undertake serious
efforts to resolve implementation problems on time, and delays in PCU-managed procurement and
financial processes and lack of enough communication between the senior management of the
MES, WGs, and the PCU delays during project implementation were experienced. This adversely
affected project success. HESC was established and worked more effectively compared to the
PCU.

        Sub-component 6.2 ­ Communication Campaign.               This sub-component is rated
unsatisfactory. The objectives of this sub-component were to support communication campaign
to support the activities of the project and the reform process, and to develop and implement an
effective media policy for MES. A public relations consultant was selected and a contract with
COGNOS International was signed on March 11, 2002. Additionally, a contract for two national
representative surveys on education reform was signed with InfoArt. But due to much resistance
at MES, the implementation of the public relations strategy was delayed and project information
was not shared with the stakeholders and the public-at-large. There was a big resistance at MES
management to share information with the public and to collect information on what the
beneficiaries and the public at large was thinking about the MES.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:



                                                - 15 -

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

        The first phase of the APL stipulated that it would concentrate on changing the
institutions (norms and regulations); establishing the structures (directorates, centers, boards,
steering committees, and independent institutes); developing the technical capacity (management
information system, methodology for optimization of the network of schools and HEIs and
student assessment); and setting the foundation required for the activities as defined in the
components of the project. Overall, the institutional impact of the project has been negligible.

        The problem proved especially difficult considering that the first three-year period of
project implementation was designed to create only the institutional and structural framework
required for education reform, i.e. does not produce direct benefit for the stakeholders.

        Almost none of the institutional arrangements that were foreseen were realized during the
duration of the project. Those that were established however, were either non-operational or
partially operational because the Government failed to appoint the required staff, failed to retain
the appointed staff and failed to assure the timely implementation of the institutional structures.
Moreover, those structures were established through quasi-legal Ministerial orders/decrees which
made them legally vulnerable. Thus preparation of institutional and organizational conditions and
design of specific interventions were not met. The CTMSHE Center was the only structure that
became operational as foreseen under the project.

        Specifically, institutional development impact is investigated at the different institutional
levels in the following way:

l At the school level ­ In 37 municipalities and 660 schools where the delegated budget system
    was implemented, the school principals were given greater discretion in spending decisions in
    order to get a more efficient use of school resources. They also practiced flexibility and
    innovation in school management and promoted greater community involvement in education.
    In this respect, this sub-component's impact was substantial in schools where delegated
    budget activities were implemented in terms of increasing transparency in financial
    management and strengthening local financial management. But, more work should have been
    done to implement the system in all municipality schools, and the impact of the component
    could have been greater if the legislation permitted more flexibility in the adjustment of school
    inputs.

l At the inspectorate level ­ As training activities on newly developed National Education
    Standards (NES), curricula and subject-based study programs had not been fully or
    substantially carried out, the envisioned changes in the role of the Regional Education
    Inspectorates (REIs) was not achieved. Accordingly, the system to develop new skills among
    the inspectors, to support schools in the interpretation of student assessment results, and to
    identify the reasons for under-performance as well as promotion of good practices could not
    be developed for the REIs.


                                                - 16 -

l At the municipal level - Municipalities faced serious difficulties in taking decisions to either
    close or amalgamate the schools to deliver high quality education in a more cost-effective way
    due to high resistance coming from the society. As the public awareness campaign and wide
    consultation to secure consensus on criteria to arrange closure of schools were never realized,
    municipalities had difficulties in explaining to the public the reasons for closing and
    amalgamating a school. As optimization of the school network sub-component of the project
    was unsuccessful (only 19 schools were closed, 14 were amalgamated and 1 was converted
    into a hostel), it did not create the results and the impact envisaged at the design phase of the
    project. In fact, the main issue was not how many school should have been closed, but
    making the local government aware of the benefits of optimizing the network. Once they
    became aware they would have found the best way to manage their network; closing school is
    not the only alternative if the local government has alternative uses for the buildings and staff.
    The MES didn't consider these possibility seriously. As a result, municipalities did not acquire
    great savings to retain within the municipality budget to contribute to the improvement of
    education quality. On the contrary, despite the limited closure of schools, as      teachers and
    principals were dismissed and became unemployed, strong opposition emerged at local and
    staff level against the municipal authorities.

l On teacher training ­ As the creation of a demand driven system of in-service training was not
    established, the development of the industry of local independent training providers, capable
    of delivering modern and high quality teacher training programs, was not realized.            An
    appropriate regulatory structure, including accreditation procedures for the licensing of
    training providers was not established. An incentive system for teachers was not revised, and
    a more objective system to examine their attained level of qualifications and provision of
    additional incentives throughout teachers' careers was not developed.

l At the HE level ­ The establishment and effective operation of the CTMSHE Center and the
    introduction of a competitive fund for improving the quality of teaching and management
    efficiency were substantially completed during project implementation. The structure of the
    CTMSHE includes Collegiate Management Bodies such as the International Supervising
    Committee (ISC), the Executive Council (ExecC), and the Executive Directorate (ED). The
    Expert Commissions (ECs) i.e. peer review committees, the evaluators, HEIs and university
    professors worked in close cooperation with each other and the system functioned efficiently
    in a transparent manner.         In this respect, this sub-component's impact can be rated as
    substantial. On the other hand, the Resource Allocation Committee did not work effectively,
    and the mechanism for resource and seat allocations was not reformed. The HEIs did not get
    to introduce a system to make them more responsive to market needs, to promote
    competition, and to have more accountability. Additionally, the introduction of the student
    loan programs and the revision of the stipend system were not realized, as there was no unit
    ready to take responsibility for this initiative within the MES.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:




                                                     - 17 -

Not applicable.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

        Appointment of senior staff at MES. During the preparation and implementation, the
project witnessed four ministerial changes. Each change brought its own high ranking official
cadre which destabilized the project and delayed its implementation.         Additionally, lack of
commitment by government during implementation, not having a strategic plan for
implementation, unclear lines of responsibility, and the lack of accountability for results were the
main reasons for not completing the project satisfactorily. The government and the key players
responsible for implementation were different than during preparation. In particular, during
implementation, change of governments and ministers resulted in continuous weakening of
commitment.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

        Staff turnover. One of the main factors that played a negative role in project
implementation was the frequent change of the staff at the PCU, WGs, and other structures
established under the project. Three project coordinators, members of the WGs including heads,
and members of the other newly established structures were subject to frequent changes, which
had a negative impact on project progress. Additionally, the matrix structure, which was set for
the WGs, proved to be inefficient and never managed to align the core responsibilities of the staff
participating in WGs, with their responsibilities as WG members. One of the main findings of the
evaluation of institutional capacity done by the Bank at the preparation of the Project was the lack
of clarity regarding roles and responsibilities and lack of accountability. One of the instruments
use for that purpose was the matrix of roles and responsibilities. In addition to the issue of
continuous changes of personnel (from the top, middle and bottom), with the changes at the roles
and responsibilities it became impossible to held accountable anybody for delays and mistakes.
MES management did not take necessary actions to assign responsibilities. However, the World
Bank also is responsible for not insisting in using the matrix of responsibilities, on redefining
mile-stones and on requesting the Minister and Deputy Ministers to make specific mid level
managers responsible for reaching the mile-stones.

        PCU's Capacity to manage the project. The lack of capacity at the PCU to manage the
project has been problematic all along. Although the staff was comprised mainly of civil servants
selected on a competitive basis, this was not sufficient to assure effective project management.
Three PCU Directors who assumed responsibility during three years of implementation
emphasized very different aspects of project implementation and their management style was quite
different from each other, especially with regard to information provision and sharing to the WGs,
the Bank and MES management. The staff lacked the required training (only the project
accountant was sent to ILO's Turin Training Center) for managing Bank-financed projects.
Another important issue worth raising is that the PCU was located in a building outside the MES
at a considerable distance from the offices of the WGs that had direct responsibility for the
implementation of project components. The Bank objected to this decision but due to building
code regulations nothing could be done. In order to overcome the problem of communication that
this was going to generate the Bank team helped the PCU and WGs to develop a strategy for



                                                    - 18 -

ensuring close coordination. The strategy fell apart with the frequent changes in the staff and also
with the lack of continuity in the Bank team.

        TA Consultancy. Although the project foresaw the hiring of TA consultants to assist in the
implementation of each component/sub-component, according to the analysis of the project
activities conducted by Association for Social Investigations and Applied Research Practices
financed by the Open Society Foundation, the WGs resisted taking advantage of the expertise and
suggestions of technical assistance teams, as well as of individual consultants whether local or
international, this attitude also hampered project implementation.

        Importance of Information Sharing and Communication.               A lack of communication
across and among different line units in the MES, the WGs of MES, and the PCU affected the
project implementation substantially. The collaboration and coordination among MES line units,
WGs and the PCU caused implementation problems from the outset. Information flow within
those units was not effective. Regular monitoring meetings did not take place. Minutes of
meetings were not kept, shared, or disseminated to the related parties.           Relations with the
stakeholders were almost non-existent.

        Lack of Mobilization of Public Support and Lack of Progress on the Communications.
Despite the fact that the project provided funds for information and communication campaigns for
each component, the entire project and the education reform, those activities were not realized.
This exacerbated the negative political and public attitudes towards the education reform, and
especially affected some components adversely, such as optimization of the school network and
students loans and credits.

5.4 Costs and financing:

        Initially, the PAD foresaw a total project cost of US$ 18.43 million with a contribution by
the Bank of US$ 14.04 million and US$ 4.39 million by the Borrower. By project closing, the
Bank contribution amounted to US$ 5.76 million and the Borrower's to US$ 0.57 million. The
project disbursement schedule was affected by the substantially slow project start.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

        The project sustainability is rated unlikely.          Given the limited institutional and
developmental impact the project has had, it is difficult to argue that the benefits of the project
would be sustainable for the following reasons:

        Government Commitment. Initially there was a strong government commitment. This
commitment was confirmed by the new MES administration who in several occasions declared its
full support of the goals of the project and its activities. But later on the top management of MES
gave conflicting signals to their staff and did not spend enough time and energy to ensure that the
project was aligned with the "strategy" of the new government. But the situation got even worse
because the top management delayed in several occasions procurement activities; the decisions



                                                 - 19 -

recommended by the procurement evaluation committees were not cleared on time. Although
towards the end of the project the government confirmed that the development objectives as
outlined in the project were still valid and reflected the priorities of the government for education
reform, it acknowledged that there were key gaps in policy and strategy, as well as insufficient
consensus among the variety of stakeholders in the sector (teachers and teachers' organizations,
school directors, municipalities, parents, regional inspectors, university representatives, MES,
MOF, etc.) on major aspects of the reform.

        In accordance with Government and Bank agreements, the project was closed on its
original closing date and the alternative options for either extending the closing date for a year or
for re-structuring and thus simplifying the project, were not pursued. The Government decided
not to pursue restructuring or other options. The Bank agreed to continue to support the
education sector reform through the PAL 2 program. In this regard, the development and
approval of an initial education reform strategy by the Council of Ministers was added on PAL 2
as a Board condition. Following this, the Council for Economic Policy at the end of March 2004
approved a concept for the education reform strategy together with an action plan, designed to
improve quality of learning and teaching, while strengthening equity, and to improve resource
management and fiscal efficiency.

        Policy environment. There appears to be a renewed focus on the need for urgent reform
of education and for achieving many of the objectives as originally laid out in the project design.
Acknowledging that there are key gaps in policy and strategy, as well as insufficient consensus
among the variety of stakeholders in the sector (teachers and teachers organizations, school
directors, and municipalities), the Government has embarked on the development of the strategic
basis for education reform and an effort is being made to consult stakeholders. The development
and initial implementation of the strategy is being supported by the PAL program (through PAL
2 which went to the Board in June 2004, and particularly PAL 3, expected to go to the Board in
March/April 2005). The success of these efforts will be clear in due course and much will depend
on MES willingness and commitment to proceed with bold reforms, to address capacity and
institutional weaknesses within its structures and to ensure the continuity of the reform process by
constructively engaging and building ownership among a large number of stakeholders. Although
no follow on project has been formally agreed so far, there is common understanding that the
Bank has a role to play in the support of the reforms. Further policy based or sector wide support
could be discussed to build on successful establishment of the strategic policy and legislative basis
for the reforms.    Nevertheless, the forthcoming 2005 general election creates an uncertain
environment about attaining the education reform strategy as outlined in the PAL 2 Program.

        Institution/management effectiveness. Since the establishment or semi-establishment of
the institutions/structures were carried on a weak legal basis, it is doubtful whether these
structures will continue to exist following the closure of the project.

        Economic, technical and financial viability. Since the government could not carry out
activities under the project with the project funding at its disposal, the likelihood of maintaining
what had been achieved and especially for completing the half-finished activities is very slim.




                                                 - 20 -

        Social impact and local participation.         The Government failed to create a platform
through which the consensus of the main stakeholders could be obtained, including teachers and
teachers' organizations, school directors, municipalities, parents, regional inspectors, university
representatives, MES, and the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Consequently, sustainability of social
impact and local participation is unlikely.

        Incentives for participant to sustain the project.         As was the case in project
implementation, there were no incentives for participants and stakeholders to sustain the project
activities, as most of the basic structures aimed at establishing them under the project were not
made operational.

        Follow-on project. Since the implementation of the subsequent APLs (APL II and APL
III) were canceled, there will be no follow-on project. Instead, the conditions reforming the
education sector were incorporated in the PAL 2 program, which was signed on June 17, 2004.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

        With regard to the implementation of the delegated budget system, which was originally
initiated under EU-PHARE program and extended under the project, legislation was jointly
prepared by MES and MOF, which now is awaiting Parliamentary approval. Materials about the
delegated budget system were published. Press conferences and other media activities led to
improving communication capacity as well as to sustaining the component's activity.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

        The Bank's performance during identification, preparation assistance, and appraisal of the
project was rated as satisfactory, with some qualifications. The Bank engaged in an intensive
dialogue with the senior officials and staff from MES to jointly define the strategic priorities and
the identification of project areas that could be supported by the Bank. The Bank helped arrange
a series of workshops to discuss the preparation of a project to support the change and
modernization of the Bulgarian education system and to identify the technical assistance needed
by MES.       The Bank team helped the six working groups in MES prepare the different
components of the project and initiated the assessment of organizational capacity. The Bank also
assisted MES in preparing an implementation responsibility matrix, in which detailed
arrangements concerning management responsibility as well as delegated responsibility were
spelled out. Implementation Plans regarding general education and higher education were also
prepared with the assistance of the Bank.

        The project design was in accordance with country and regional objectives. The Bank
made an effort to assure that the Borrower consulted with a wider representation of stakeholders
from the education sector. Ideally it would have been more credible with the Bulgarian and
central financial authorities if the involvement of management and staff outside the education
sector was secured. As building blocks for the proposed long-term Bank engagement with
Bulgaria's education sector (the proposed nine-year, three-phase Program), it would have offered


                                                  - 21 -

an opportunity for both Bulgarian and Bank experts to consider the findings and implications of
the unusually high quality consultant reports financed through the Bank-executed PHRD Grant, as
well as work undertaken by EU-PHARE and the Open Society Foundation.

        But, given the continuous changes in the leadership and the staff of the Ministry, more
achievement of policy and legislative targets upfront could have been desirable, establishing the
legislative and regulatory basis for many of the components. More upfront emphasis on the buy in
of a wider variety of stakeholders may also have been desirable, especially for the preparation and
the implementation of the Primary and Secondary Education component. Alternatively, a simpler
design with fewer components (and focusing on a single subsector) could have been sought.
However, at the time of preparation and given the high level of commitment of the leadership at
the time, it was decided that the policy legislative basis would be developed and public support
would be built during the first phase.

7.2 Supervision:

        The Bank's performance during supervision is rated unsatisfactory. The Bank's presence
was reduced during implementation at a time when it was needed most, especially given that the
Borrower did not contract the planned TA consultancy. Due to the fact that the project was the
Bank's first engagement in the sector, and that the PAD identified the Ministry's weak
implementation capacity in Bulgaria, more intense supervision and guidance should have been
provided by the Bank. The need for closer supervision became even more evident following the
midterm review, but this was not provided. As discussed above, the Borrower lacked experience
with project management and Bank procedures, which caused enormous delays in
implementation. Bank supervision missions were adequate at identifying issues and problems, and
the Aide-Memoires and follow-up letters to the Government highlighted these problems, but Bank
supervision did not follow through with support to the Government to assure that the agreed
actions and recommendations were fully understood and applied by the Client on time. At the
same time, the Bank's supervision teams changed frequently, which confused the Client and
resulted in lack of continuity on follow through. Three TTLs were responsible during three years
of project implementation. In addition, the Bank's field office could have taken more active role
on a day-to-day monitoring and follow-up on supervision agreements, and helping the PCU and
the WGs regarding project management activities, especially when the crisis conditions were
faced.

        At the end of the project, during the supervision mission of October 2003, an effort was
made to restructure and simplify the project to enable it to achieve success on a smaller subset of
development objectives. There was no sign of agreement on the part of the Government to
realize the required steps for the restructuring but yet very short time (a month) was given to the
Government to complete all prior actions identified in the Aide-Memoire. In this respect, it was
obvious that the conditions would not be met by the Government.             During the mission of
December 2003, a joint decision was taken by the Bank and the Government to close the project
at the original closing date.        Additionally, during the last six months of the project
implementation, due to the slow response of the new Ministry management, and particularly very
serious problems with project management that emerged, the Government did not succeed to
improve the implementation performance.


                                                - 22 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

        The overall rating for the Bank performance is unsatisfactory. Although the Project was
satisfactorily designed and prepared, inadequate supervision contributed to poor implementation.
As a consequence, only one of the four development objectives was achieved, only one of the six
components was satisfactorily implemented, and the institutional impact and sustainability were
negligible.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

        The Borrower's performance during the preparation was rated satisfactory. The senior
officials of the MES, other ministries and stakeholders were involved in the preparation phase,
and actively collaborated with the Bank to define the project. They provided background studies
and active inputs to prepare the project. Although the Borrower did not have a statement of
education strategy, this was prepared with the help of the Bank during the preparation stage.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

        The overall rating of the government implementation performance is unsatisfactory.
Although successive governments declared that they were all committed to the project, this was
hampered due to frequent change of ministers and other senior officials responsible for project
management. Since project management bodies, such as the Project Board, and advisory bodies,
and the Curriculum Council were not operational until after long delays, the project was
supervised by the Council of Ministers and more specifically by Deputy Prime Ministers, who
requested reports every two weeks. This however proved to be problematic because the Council
of Ministers did not have enough competence on education issues and could not be expected to
monitor the implementation of activities from a strategic point of view. Instead of moving the
responsibility up when faced with problems, it would have been better for the Government to take
necessary measures, on a timely basis. However, the Borrower regularly provided counterpart
funds and funding was not an issue during project implementation.

        Additionally, failure to implement the design of a communication campaign prevented the
MES from getting the education reform message to the public in general, and its beneficiaries, in
particular.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

        The overall rating for implementing agency's (MES) performance is unsatisfactory.
Although the Project Board, which was chaired by the Minister of Education and Science and
composed of the Secretary General, the Deputy Minister of Higher Education and the Deputy
Minister of General Education, was established to guide project implementation and to monitor its
progress, it did not function regularly as was envisioned (i.e. to meet at least twice a year), to
revise and approve the bi-annual progress report presented by the PCU Coordinator, and to make
necessary corrections to project implementation activities. Moreover, when it met, no minutes of
the Project Board sessions were kept. Several committees, directorates, centers, boards, steering


                                               - 23 -

committees, and independent institutes that were established by means of Ministerial orders did
not function regularly, if at all. This was due to the frequent changes in the members of those
structures. The same applies for the functioning of WGs, as the heads as well as the members
were subject to numerous changes.         During the life of the project, an important factor that
affected the PCU's performance was the frequent changes of the PCU Director. Three PCU
Directors were appointed during the three and a half years project life. Each PCU Director
brought a new style of project management which has made an adverse affect and delayed
day-to-day project implementation. Especially, during the service period of the second PCU
Director, coordination and cooperation, as well as information sharing within the PCU, between
the PCU and the WGs and within the WGs was kept at a minimum. The PCU did not arrange
regular progress review meetings with the WGs and senior officials of the MES. The WGs failed
to benefit from the provision of Technical Assistance foreseen under the project. In fact, in most
cases the WGs functioned without getting even national and/or international individual
consultants. When they did decide or succeed to obtain the services of a TA consultancy, the
timing was such that the TA providers did not have the time to complete the activities of the
consultancy concerned.       Furthermore, the Bank had to declare misprocurement for three
procurement activities which were handled during the service period of the second PCU Director
and the Government had pay the amounts of those three contracts back to the Bank from the
Government budget. On the positive side, between January and March 2004, management of the
project on the part of MES improved and a new team was put in place that was proactive and
effectively managed the closing of the Project. This lead to a situation where many potential
problems that could have arisen during closing were avoided and the project was closed in a
relatively tidy manner.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


        Overall, the Borrower's performance is rated as unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

l Realistic assessment of the Borrower's implementation capacity can prevent, or help
    design actions to reduce risks: A realistic assessment of the implementation capacity of the
    Borrower to implement project activities and to use Bank's procurement and financial
    reporting guidelines would allow for a proper design of initial phases of project
    implementation and realistic schedule. It would allow for provision of start-up support before
    project effectiveness or at the very early stages of project implementation. But even a realistic
    assessment itself does not resolve the problem. The capacity that is built during project
    preparation should not be weakened by the removal of key players from MES who provided
    intellectual and moral leadership.

l Communication is paramount, especially when inter-unit tasks are involved. In many
    large organizations, such as ministries of education, inherent communication problems
    between the units is frequently a standard behavior: There was no experience or practice
    in MES to share information or organize coordination meetings. This caused enormous
    implementation problems and adversely affected the Ministry staff's understanding and
    ownership of the project. It is important for the success of the project to create incentives for



                                                 - 24 -

  staff to share and use information with one another. In addition, periodic coordination
  meetings should be conducted, and follow up with distribution of minutes, to maintain staff
  interest about it and to assure efficiency.

l The inability to maintain the staff assigned to the PCU and the implementing units
  negatively affects implementation: Every change in the composition of the members of the
  teams involved in Project implementation causes irrecoverable delays in project
  implementation.      To mitigate the effects of these inevitable changes, members of the
  implementation team should be provided with operational manuals and instruments, and
  routine training to maintain and develop their capacity and to facilitate the induction of the
  new team members.

l Assigning task responsibilities, making implementation staff accountable for results,
  and giving authority to these staff to achieve their objectives would help induce
  ownership and increase success: For many civil servants assigned to implementation teams,
  work on project execution is an additional, external responsibility, not associated with their
  everyday tasks.     For some staff, this is actually true as their positions do not involve
  responsibilities directly associated with activities under the respective component on which
  they are assigned to work. Members of the implementation teams are not held responsible for
  violating the deadlines for implementing project activities. Not having clear and objective
  criteria for the performance of implementing teams' members makes performance evaluation
  subjective.

l Establishment of a fully operational Education Management Information System
  (EMIS) for the analysis of fiscal, social and purely educational indicators is an integral
  part of successful project implementation, especially for one designed to promote
  education reform: Information gathering, analysis and dissemination is essential not only for
  the successful implementation of the project, but also for the sustainability of an overall
  reform. But, establishment of fully operational EMIS requires political will to involve all
  related parties as well as stakeholders. Obtaining this political will is a key step in project
  design.

l The importance of stakeholder participation in project design, implementation and
  evaluation and effective public relations campaign should not be overlooked: It is
  especially vital to get the participation of stakeholders in introducing reform and
  modernization programs in countries like Bulgaria, and in sectors such as education. If this is
  not done, resistance from the organizations and the public in general could easily block the
  success of a well prepared program/project. One element in seeking the participation of
  stakeholders, in minimizing their resistance, and in increasing their awareness and ownership is
  to develop and implement an effective public relations policy and campaign and to make the
  public familiar with the developments in the education sector and the needs for reform.

l Realistic risk assessment in project design and measures to mitigate them are essential:
  Social and organizational assessments are especially helpful in understanding the issues, as
  there is a clear link between the reluctance to reform the education system and the reluctance



                                              - 25 -

  to change governance structures of the education system. Findings from these assessments
  should be incorporated to the implementation plans of the projects.

l Focus on institutional capacity building in monitoring and evaluation of the project is
  critical: In order for policy makers to track the success of a reform project they need to be
  able to monitor the results and the impact of the intervention. In the EMP, apart from the
  indicators included in the PAD (Log-Frame), there were no mechanisms for monitoring
  outcomes of the project. A system for internal and external monitoring of project activities,
  outcomes and impact should be an integral part of the design. This type of continuous
  assessment and feedback will also help assure transparency to help facilitate the introduction
  and utility of such a system. Project coordination bodies should also include monitoring and
  evaluation experts.

l Changes in governments, especially between the preparation and the implementation
  period is one of the main reasons for unsuccessful reform program: Programs designed
  to support policy reforms are jeopardized by government change, especially if those changes
  take place at the critical juncture between the preparation and implementation stages of the
  reform-support project. These risks should be anticipated explicitly during preparation, and
  included as one of the critical risks affecting project outcomes. Measures to mitigate such
  risks need to be carefully devised and integrated into the project design. If the reform
  program is well conceived and supported by the major players, including the key stakeholders,
  the risk of the reform going off track during changing governments is reduced. Specifically, a
  reform initiative of the magnitude proposed for Bulgaria imposed a large burden upon a
  number of institutions, as well as on countless individuals and groups, including many
  politicians and decision makers who were not fully engaged in the process. Consequently,
  although every incoming government declared its formal commitment to the goals and
  objectives of the project, actual implementation did not bear this out. In summary, changes in
  leadership especially in the absence of wide buy in for the reforms is where the problem
  comes. In this case, it would be better to go in for more upfront buy in and binding legislative
  basis, or - in the absence of a well established and accepted strategic basis, be less ambitious
  and go in for much simpler design, rather than sector wide interventions.

l Government Ownership Cannot be Guaranteed throughout Project Implementation.
  The Bank preparation team had established a close working relationship with Government,
  which was evident from the start of Project identification. There was confidence on the part
  of the Client and the Bank alike that the project design reflected Government priorities and the
  Bank's professional and international expertise. Nonetheless, Government ownership was lost
  following a change in leadership soon after loan effectiveness. The supervision should have
  made an effort to establish the buy-in of the new leadership team. This may have required
  restructuring, shifting priorities, or re-phasing activities to coincide better with the interests
  and strategy of the new counterpart.

l Loss of Client Ownership Can Undermine Project Implementation and Compromise
  Project Outcomes. In retrospect, while the preparation team gave the project's design a
  "moderate" rating for political risks, it did not set out a clear strategy for mitigating such



                                                - 26 -

    risks. A change in government staff or leadership can make what seemed like a viable and
    well integrated project design into what appears to be a complex and difficult-to-implement
    set of activities in the eyes of the new leadership. This loss of commitment to the Project can
    in turn lead to a downward spiral of low ownership and poor project performance.            To
    counteract this downward spiral, the supervision team should identify the weakness in project
    management and agree with the client on an action plan to rebuild implementation capacity.
    Such an action plan, coupled with a proactive and supportive supervision effort, could have
    helped strengthen the PCU and the Working Groups of MES (who have the main
    responsibility for implementation of the project components), thereby also stimulating greater
    ownership of the project objectives in the Ministry.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                                              BULGARIA
                            EDUCATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT
                                       GOVERNMENT REPORT
                                           September 1, 2004

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
        BEMP             Bulgaria Education Modernization Project
        HE               Higher Education
        GE               General Education
        MES              Ministry of Education and Science
        HEI              Higher Education Institution
        SER              State Educational Requirements
        CC               Curriculum Council
        NAU              National Assessment Unit
        CTMS             Competitive Teaching and Management System
        RAC              Resource Allocation Committee
        FMSSE            Financial Management System in Secondary Education

1.      GENERAL INFORMATION

1.1.    Primary and Secondary Education

        Structure of the system. The Bulgarian educational system is based on laws passed by
the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. Basic and secondary education is provided in
conformity with the National Education Act (NEA) of 1991, last amendment of May 14, 2004.
School education is compulsory from age 6 or 7 up to the age of 16. Basic education is received
in two stages ­ grades 1 to 4 and grades 5 to 8. Secondary school covers the pupils from grade 9
to 12 (or 13).

        Enrollment. In the school year 2003/2004 there were approximately 1.4 million children
in schools in Bulgaria, 644 637 (45%) of them study in grades I-VIII, 374 262 (26%) study in
general secondary schools. The gross enrollment ratios at basic and secondary (incl.



                                                - 27 -

technical/vocational schools) are about 93.6% and 77.1% respectively. The incidence of school
drop out is noticeably high in middle schools.

        Access. Access to schools is as generally good, particularly on primary level, as shown by
the enrollment ratios. However, after primary, in middle school, drop out rates are quite high. To
encourage participation in school by children from minorities, special provision is made through
special language instruction in the mother language. Usually basic school education is provided in
pupils' nearest school. Some of the specialized secondary schools require an entry examination.

        Management. The administration of education is organized on four levels: national,
regional, municipal, and school levels. The MES determines and implements state policy on
educational field. Educational Inspectorates are responsible for supervision of the state education
policy and schools' performance. The school is a legal entity.

        Finance and Financial Systems. Based on the primary source of financing, the schools in
Bulgaria are grouped as state or municipality schools. The state schools (mainly vocational or
designed for children with special needs) are funded directly from the MES (or other concerned
Ministries) budget. Municipality schools forming the biggest proportion of schools are funded
from three sources: from a block grant awarded by the Ministry of Finance, from locally raised
taxes, and from funds raised by the schools themselves. 660 schools in 37 municipalities are
involved in the Delegated Budgets program and manage their own school budgets.

        Inspection and Monitoring. Responsibility for implementing the state educational
requirements and norms rests on the Education Inspectorates. The Inspectorates are legal entities.
They appoint the schools' directors, watch for the implementation of curricula and syllabuses and
confirm Standard Register N0.1 for the school staff structure. The Inspectorates realize the
monitoring compliance in financial and economic management of the schools, as governed by the
norms and legislation.

        Curriculum. From September 1999, a new curriculum framework was introduced based
on national content standards for each subject expressed in terms of the knowledge, skills and
attitudes that students should acquire. This will replace the current curriculum, which is defined
largely in terms of subject content, academic in nature, and targeted to more able learners.

        Assessment and Examinations. The accepted Ordinance No.3 concerning the assessment
process has strength of a State Educational Requirement. The primary and secondary educations
finish with certificates. Examines after grade 8 and compulsory school-leaving examinations from
year 2005/2006 are expected. The external evaluation will gain an upper hand over.

        Links to the Labor Market. The vocational schools need the knowledge and experience
of the social partners in order to respond to the challenges of the changing business environment
where the school graduates will work within. The commitment and influence of the employers will
be enhanced by: provision of practical experience to students, complemented the training delivered
within vocational schools; participation of employers in development of vocational standards, in
assessment, certification, and awarding vocational qualifications, and in vocational teacher training



                                                - 28 -

related to labor market needs. Taking into view the labor market needs, the priority will be given
to the large-profile professions and to development of essential skills such as foreign language
skills, entrepreneurial skills, ICT-skills, and teamwork skills. Thus, the training will be provided
that match the market labor needs and the ongoing structural reform of the national economy.

1.2     Higher Education System

        Structure of the system. Within the system of Higher Education in Bulgaria there are 51
Higher Schools ­ 37 state and 14 private NSI . After enactment of Academic Autonomy Act in
1990, the Higher Schools established a number of detached education units opened in major
towns of the country. The tuition quality there is very low.

        Number of students. Enrollments in the Higher Schools have grown substantially in the
90s. In 2003/2004 the number of students enrolled in Universities gained the number of 230 513 ­
161 497 regular form of education and 69 016 extra mural studies and distance training. The
entire increase of the number of students is the result of the Higher Schools now being able to
enroll students who pay for their tuition.

        Structure, number, and age of the academic staff. The number of tutors did not
increase so sharply as the number of students. In 2003/2004 it reached 22 532. In spite of that, the
students-tutors ratio remains relatively low ­ 10.1/1 (according to National Statistics Institute
2003/2004 data. 40% of the professors in Bulgaria now are at age of 60-65 and 29% are 65-69,
whereas only 9% are at age up to 54. The average age of the lecturers is over 50.

        Average duration of training period at the Higher schools. As follow: undergraduate
degree specialist ­ 3 years minimum time; bachelor degree ­ 4 years minimum time; master degree
­ 5 years minimum time or 1 year after bachelor degree; doctor degree ­ 3 years minimum time
after master degree.

        Quality assurance system. The system for improving and maintaining the Higher
education quality contains the following elements:
The normative documents should be considered a medium, where the Higher Schools (HS) and
other institutions take part in the process of evaluation and maintenance the quality. They are
subjects of assessment, criticism and amendment.
External quality assessment ­ A National Agency for Evaluation and Accreditation has been
established and performs its functions. Internal quality assessment ­ Inter-university systems for
quality assessment and maintenance has not been developed yet. The main problem is the private
high schools diploma legalization.
Professional quality assessment ­ Higher education diplomas qualified by professional
organizations, shall be the result of the connection between professional organizations and Higher
Schools.

        Funds for Higher Education. The funds allocated to Higher Education for 2004 are on
the amount of 211 609 BGN. For a long time the financing of Higher Education has remained at
its present low level ­ around 1% of the GDP per capita. The HEI budgets cover salaries and



                                                 - 29 -

current expenses mainly. As a result the equipment necessary has became outdated, the supply
with titles and maintains of the periodic for libraries has deteriorated and publishing scientific
findings of the academic staff became more difficult.

         Material base and access to scientific information and information networks. Only
15% of the equipment is deemed adequate for teaching purposes. 70% of the buildings where the
higher schools are situated need overhaul. 91% of the scientific equipment for training purposes
needs renewal, and only the computers supplied mainly under international EU Programs are in
relatively good condition. The reduced funding for Higher education also has had a very negative
impact on libraries. The Internet accessibility is assessed as sufficient at only 55% of the Higher
Schools (but there are a number of Higher Schools without any access to Internet).

         Quality of education and adequacy of the HE System and HS to society and the
economy. Higher education quality is sharply lowered. Part-time training is also of lower quality.
The reasons stay in the lack of modem textbooks, small number of lectures and workshops, lack
of appropriate libraries in the places, where the part-time students work and live, sharply reduced
contacts with the lecturers, and lack of academic atmosphere. The tuition in the detached units of
the Higher Schools also shows low quality (with a few exceptions). Funds allocated for HE
decreased and accordingly the education quality also decreased. As a result, the HE system and
the individual Higher Schools as whole do not react adequately to the social and economy
requirements.

2.       BULGARIA EDUCATION MODERNIZATION PROJECT

         On July 26th, 2000 Bulgarian government signed a loan agreement with the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of "Bulgarian Education
Modernization Project". The agreement is for a period of nine years, divided in to three phases
each with duration of three years. The total amount of the loan is USD 62.39 million.

         The program purpose is improving the overall resource management and quality of
teaching and learning in Bulgarian general (primary and secondary) and Higher education
institutions, while continue to maintain the high levels of access that already existed and improve
the equity in the Higher education.

         The duration of first phase is three years. It was concentrate on changing the institutions
(norms and regulations); establishing the structures (directorates, centers, boards, steering
committees, independent institutes); developing the technical capacity (management information
system, methodology of the optimization of the schools and HE network and student assessment);
setting the foundations required for: 1) successful introduction of new resource allocation
mechanisms, and new standard-based curriculum and syllabuses; 2) changing management
practice; 3) changing teaching approaches; 4) establishing a demand driven teacher in service
training systems; 5) establishing of new system of education, monitoring and evaluation; 6)
establishing a new student loan and stipend system.

         The second and the third phases were canceled. In fact, the project activities were brought



                                                - 30 -

to an end with the conclusion of the first phase of the program. The main reasons for this are put
down in the World Bank Aide-memoire, dated December 8-12th 2003 where Bulgarian
government and the Bank agreed as follow: The Education Modernization Project would close on
its original closing date of March 31th, 2004 and alternative options for project restructuring
would no longer be pursued.

3.      ACHIEVEMENTS BY KEY INDICATORS

3.1     Secondary Education

Component 1:            Improvement of quality of teaching and learning in general education.

        Sub-component "State Educational Requirements, Curricula And Syllabuses". CC has
been established and a Regulation on the Activities and Functions has been approved. The Council
has started functioning and a program for the training of its members has been elaborated. The
detailed plan for the training of teachers on the new standards and curriculum is ready and is
already functioning; the training process for teachers for the 9th and 10th grade is completed and
evaluated. The list of the necessary technical equipment and materials for the Resource Center at
MES included in Project Assignment is prepared. SER for the educational contents for grades 1-4,
5-8, 9-12 are elaborated and approved. New syllabuses on all school subjects are elaborated and
approved after they have been discussed at a national level. A Resource center on the curriculum
establishment was planned for the time of activities implementation but this was not done.

        Sub-component "Assessment". NAU has been established and performs its functions.
NAU structure was elaborated and approved at the end of 2003 and the Unit was technically
equipped in the autumn of 2001. Planned "mechanisms" of assessment are in the process of
elaboration, approbation and introduction in the educational process. A long work lies ahead for
the training of teachers, elaboration and testing of new methods and means of assessment,
adaptation of existing SER towards the Educational Contents to the assessment requirements ­
activities, which are not provided for in the project or which are only hinted there. Assessment of
students graduating grade 12 and also the study of the experience of other countries shows the
necessity for a change of the format of state matriculations, which is in use now, as well as of
other examinations after the graduation of a certain degree/stage of education.

        Sub-component "Teacher Qualification". Information packages for grades 1 and 12
were developed for principals and experts and for the RSG. Training seminars were organized for
trainers by respective target groups as per preliminary schedules. Teacher qualification Directorate
made an evaluation of educational packages. After bringing into line with local and international
consultants and amending the necessary corrections the packages were printed and ready for the
training sessions start, which had to begin by the end of September 2003. Studies are not
completed, interested parties are not consulted; the preliminary plan for the conception and
application of a system for improvement of the qualification of teachers, which is regulated by
market demands, is not proposed.

        Sub-component "Inspection". The activities on the sub-component were directed



                                                 - 31 -

towards elaboration and approbation of a frame for inspection of schools, which should be the
basis of the state educational requirement for inspection. Six pilot REI were selected for the
approbation of the frame for inspection. At the national meetings and seminars held in 2003 with
the participation of the working group, the national consultant and representatives of the pilot REI
the problems connected with the elaboration and offering of the frame for inspection of schools
were discussed. A second version of the frame for inspection of schools is presented and from the
beginning of the second term of school year 2003-2004 its approbation in specified schools of the
pilot REI shall start.

Component 2: Improvement of resource management in secondary education.

         Sub-component "Expansion of the Application of the System of Delegated Budgets".
All schools and servicing units in the system of public education applying the system of "delegated
budgets" are secondary masters of budget credits having an independent budget. 95% of
municipalities successfully allocate the funds for the schools by means of objective and simplified
criteria. Financing is according to a formula, responsibilities are clearly distributed between the
municipality and schools, the school is free to decide how to spend the funds delegated. A
program for training of trainers was up-dated, a group of 15 new trainers is formed; a minibus for
the visits to the participating municipalities to be paid for the purpose of supporting, training,
assessment and other activities stipulated in the component was purchased; a new equipment for
the staff and for training was purchased and delivered in FMSE. The members of the working
group took a part in training activities, seminars on the project. The coordination with the PCU,
Education Municipal Departments, FMSE and the school principals was good. a training visit of
trainers from the working group, school principals, municipality administrators paid to Denmark
was held. The system of delegated budgets is applied in 37 municipalities with about 660 schools
and servicing units.

         Sub-component "School Network Optimization". The pilot municipalities and respective
REI are specified by Order No. RD 09-325/10.05.2003 of the Minister of Education and Science.
Pilot municipalities have elaborated and presented an analysis of the existing school network,
positions regarding the demand and the possibilities for its optimization. School network
optimization is implemented in a part of the pilot municipalities: Kardjali District, Krumovgrad
Municipality, Lovech District, Trojan Municipality, Montana District, Georgi Damyanovo
Municipality, Pazardjik District, Pazardjik Municipality, Pernik District, Pernik Municipality,
Pleven District, Pleven Municipality, Silistra District, Dulovo Municipality, Silistra District,
Tutrakan Municipality, Sofia District, Etropole Municipality. A demonstration model of
geographical information system for Pazardjik District is developed.

         Sub-component "Education Management Information System". The activities on the
implementation of the Information System for Management of Education in Phase 1 were
connected with the construction of a system of indicators characterizing education quality. Despite
the strong desire these indicators were not achieved within the terms stipulated in the first phase.

3.2      Higher Education




                                                - 32 -

Component 3: Improvement of efficiency and effectiveness in resources allocation to Higher
educational Institutions.

        Sub-component "Reform of allocation processes for resources and seats". A RAC at
MES was established. The profiles of expenses and resources for each educational institution were
developed. A system for the normative expenses was introduced to determine the allocation and
the education taxes. A methodology for determining the number of students admitted to each
university and speciality was developed. A uniform procedure for allocation of resources and
number of students as well as of financial resources of Higher Education Institutions was
elaborated.
Component 4: Retaining accessibility to Higher Education in Bulgaria by development of
Student Loan program and re-design of stipend system.

        An information basis was created for development of the system for granting loans to
students and applicants for a doctor's degree. Financial models for the expenses and other
consequences from the alternative models for granting loans to students and applicants for
doctor's degrees were elaborated. Alternative projects were prepared for the normative change
with regard to law and sub-law acts.

Component 5: Improvement the quality of teaching and learning in Higher Educational
institutions.

        The key indicator for this component is CTMS to be fully operational with at least 5 HEIs
implementing teaching and management improvement grant projects. In fact with the two calls
GTMS finances 85 projects of 31 HEIs. In that way the key indicator for the second phase,
according to which 70% of HEIs must received funding for management and teaching
improvement was reached.

Component 6: Strength MES internal management capacity for project management and
communications.

        Sub-component "Establishment of PCU". PCU was established with Minister of
Education and Science Ordinance in March, 2000. Its activity was implemented by 9 employees.
PCU supported the coordination of the activities regarding the project realization. PCU organized
the tenders and managed the contracts in accordance with the World Bank instructions. PCU
provided annual audits regarding the project and regularly kept the dialog and feed-back between
MES and other stakeholders.
Sub-component "Communication Campaign". There is no access achieved on this component.

4.      PROJECT FINANCING

        According to Loan Agreement 4576-BUL from September 19th, 2000 the amount for the
project first phase comes to EUR 15 300 000. Co-financing on the Bulgarian part is provided for
the amount of EUR 4 269 121,55. 37 % from initially foregone resources are adopted, the most
accelerate rates of adoption were in 2003 and first six months of 2004. The resource allocation



                                              - 33 -

and outlay by components (loan plus co-financing) is presented in Table 1.

                     Table.1       Resource allocation and outlay by components

           COMPONENTS                  Allocated    Committed      Free       Disbursed   in which   in Which
                                                                 Amount                     WB        Local
  1. Improve Quality And Teaching     5 548 962,35 1 427 619,79 4121342.56 1 398 899,28        1 271 130 176,42
  In General Education                                                                        242,95
2. Extension Of Delegated Budgets     6 422 875,67 1 065 398,72 5357476.95 1 064 861,67 917 980,28 147 418,44
Program
3. Improving Resource                  481 798,47    195 069,22   286729.25    195 069,22 188 450,10   6 619,12
Allocation/Management In The
Sector
4. Retaining Accessibility Of Higher   238 501,98     43 287,38    195214.6     43 196,93  43 287,38       0,00
Education In Bulgaria
5. Improve Quality Of Teaching,       5 936 735,41 4 048 677,77 1888057.64 4 036 910,23        3 871 173 076,34
Learning And Management Of He                                                                 032,69
Institution
6. Strengthen MES Capacity For         787 247,67    422 996,70   364250.97    422 627,04 329 630,67  93 366,03
Project Management And
Communication
7. Management Fee                      153 000,00          0,00      153000    153 000,00 153 000,00       0,00
   Bank Charges                              0,00          0,00           0     12 674,74   1 958,69       0,00
Total Project Expenditure                  19 569 7 203 049,58 12366071.97 7 327 239,11        6 776 550 656,35
                                           121,55                                             582,76


The resource allocation by different components during the years shows various intensity of
resource adoption (see Table 2).

                     Table.2       Components resource allocation by years

             COMPONENTS                     2000      2001     2002     2003     2004     TOTAL       Life of
                                                                                                      Project
  1. Improve Quality And Teaching In         483,02 124276,98 178275,0 1010619, 85 245,16     1 398       5 548
  General Education                                                  4        1              899,28     962,35
  2. Extension Of Delegated Budgets                  76979,71 22391,81 947962,1 17 528,00     1 064       6 422
  Program                                                                     5              861,67     875,67
  3. Improving Resource                              20681,77 23302,86   53353 97 731,59 195 069,22 481 798,47
  Allocation/Management In The Sector
  4. Retaining Accessibility Of Higher                      0        0 17998,13 25 198,80 43 196,93 238 501,98
  Education In Bulgaria
  5. Improve Quality Of Teaching,                    27719,81 385924,4 1833930,     1 789     4 036       5 936
  Learning And Management Of He                                      1        1    335,95    910,23     735,41
  Institution
  6. Strengthen MES Capacity For Project 11870,53 78010,99 110152,8 172391,9 50 200,78 422 627,04 787 247,67
  Management And Communication                                                4
7. Management Fee                                     153000                         0,00 153 000,00 153 000,00
    Bank Charges                                                        9615,68  3 059,06 12 674,74        0,00
Total Project Expenditure                 12353,55 480669,26 720046,9 4045870       2 068     7 327     19 569
                                                                     2             299,34    239,11     121,55



                                                    - 34 -

The resource adoption by categories is far behind foregone resources, excepting CTMS Funding.
Detailed allocation is shown in Table 3.

                    Table.3    Resource adoption by categories

Uses of Funds by      2000       2001       2002       2003      2004         total        Amount
Categories
   Works              0          39137,11 0            0         0,00         39 137,11    39 000,00
   Goods              0         239143,69   14147,41   876638,14 0,00         1 129 929,24 3 530 000,00
   Consulting         0         2682,21     514526,45 503126,36  363 307,81   1 383 642,83 2 620 000,00
   Training           0         6985,89     23894,37   961995,3  9 382,39     1 002 257,95 3 460 000,00
   CTMS Funding       0         0           109749,65 1680871,58 1 692 550,08 3 483 171,31 3 980 000,00
   Operational Costs  12353,55 39720,36     57729,04   13622,98  0,00         123 425,93   0,00
   Front-end Fee      0         153000      0          0         0,00         153 000,00   153 000,00
   Unallocated        0                     0          0         0,00         0,00         1 518 000,00
   Bank Charges                                        9615,68   3 059,06     12 674,74    0,00
World Bank Financing                                                                       15 300 000,00
Local Financing                                                                            4 359 121,55
 Total Project        12353,5   480669,26   720046,92 4045870,04 2 068 299,34 7 327 239,11 0,00
Expenditure           5


5.      MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME

        State Educational Requirements, Curricula and Syllabuses. Nonfulfillment of some
planned activities undoubtedly reflects on the processes of modernization of education and makes
difficult the implementation of the main objectives related to the improvement of the capacity of
the educational system for a strategic management and coordination of the SER, curricula and
syllabuses and of key processes and sub-systems.

        NAU. The work between NAU and the international consultancy company CITO was
executed in conflicts and this had a negative influence on the implementation of the activities and
the achievement of specific results. Frequent changes of the managing team of NAU had a
negative influence on the development of the sub-component.

        Inspection. It is not clear enough what the role of inspection in secondary education is.
Because of that during the visits of the missions of the World Bank a number of contradictions
arose between its representatives and members of the working group about the final result from
the work on the sub-component and the activities which should be implemented.

        Teacher qualification. The presence of a clear program and plan for the development of
the project as well as the creation of working and joint relationships between the parties
participating in the project had a positive effect.

        School network optimization. The strong fragmentariness of separate components and
sub-components as well as the absence of an additional financial fund provided for a resource
security of the process for optimization of school network in the selected municipalities had a


                                                 - 35 -

negative influence on the results.

        Extension of delegated budgets system. The component was approbated by funds of the
PHARE program in the period 1995 ­ 1999. An experience in the execution of activities was
accumulated and actual difficulties were registered and possibilities for their overcoming were
sought. There was a support and assistance provided by management team of MES. The
professionalism and good team work of the members of the working group, which staff stayed
relatively permanent, have a positive influence. The interaction between the working group and
PCU was good. This had good results and helped the development of the component. The
coordination between Education Municipal Departments, FMSE, principals of schools applying
the system of delegated budgets is good as well.

        Management Information System for Secondary and Higher Education. There were
several changes of the working group members and the staff of PCU. The combining of the two
components ­ for secondary and higher education ­ leads to a change of the initial idea and
philosophy of the components.

        Improving the efficiency of the resources allocation system. The major factors were the
way of organization of the sub-component activities; the specific structure, made up by
coordination unit, consultant team and working group; sharing of duties and remuneration;
procedure factors ­ special features of the procedure for choice of consultants, monitoring and
accounting procedures and the character of Higher education system and academic autonomy as
well.

        Preservation of the higher education accessibility in Bulgaria/Student loans and
scholarships
The joint work between the selected consultancy company and the working group was good.
There was an assistance by the missions of the World Bank and foreign consultants included in the
consulting team. The capacity of the employees of MES and of the representatives of student
organizations for the introduction of the program for granting loans to students and applicants for
doctor's degrees increased.

        Competitive Teaching and Management System. The main factors affected on the
implementation and outcome were: the good planning of activities for the achievement of the
objectives, secured resources: material and information, financial, human resources and time and
effective interaction with external institutions and institutions within the system of education,
which are related to the activities of the Center.

6.      SUSTAINABILITY

        State educational requirements, curricula and syllabi. The development and
introduction of SER, the curriculum and the syllabi contribute to the sustainable development of
the sub-component activities in future, too.

        NAU. The studies and approbations of exam materials that have been carried out show



                                                 - 36 -

that this activity is needed in future, too, and is to be developed in view of establishing an
operational system for assessment of the quality of teaching and training in the Bulgarian schools
of general education.

        Inspection. The activities are not sustainable as enough clarity as to what role is assigned
to secondary education inspection lacks in the launching of the project.

        Teacher qualification. Due to the incorrect performance of the activities related to the
organization of the national workshops in connection with teachers' qualification on behalf of the
tour operators for logistic support as well as due to PCU default regarding the financing of these
activities impeded the achievement of good results and sustainable development of the
sub-component.

        Expansion of the delegated budgets system implementation. The good legislation as
regards the implementation of the delegated budgets system was developed jointly by MES and
MF in the years from system launching so far ­ laws, decrees, instruction letters, orders, etc. The
information management software ADMINPRO is supported, extended and updated with MES
efforts and capacity. The equipment supplied under the component creates very good conditions
for carrying out training, workshops and other activities.

        Management Information System for Secondary and Higher Education. The activities
under EMIS implementation cannot be described as sustainable.

        Improving the efficiency of the resources allocation system. At present the RAC does
not function due to procedural reasons. New members need to be assigned. A system for
determining normative expenses is functioning on Ministry level and the training fees are allocated
in accordance with its procedures.

        Retaining accessibility to higher education in Bulgaria/ Student's loans and
scholarships.Representatives of the stakeholders are included in the process of work under the
sub-component. The procedure for Council of Ministers reviewing a draft Students and PhD
Students Crediting Act has been launched and the draft law is to be introduced to the National
Assembly. Credits from the commercial banks will be used for the introduction of students and
PhD students crediting and relieved conditions for the borrowers will be provided with the
financial support of the state.

        CTMS. The indicators for sustainability of CTMS activity show themselves by realizing
the HEIs projects, by elaborating and updating the strategies for HEIs development, by improving
some concrete elements of the programs for increasing the educational quality, including the
development and management systems like Quality Assessment Unit, Quality Offices and
Management Information Systems, by Higher school unions for consolidation and exchange of
experience and resources, formed and functional competitive system in Higher Education sphere
for focusing the financial resources by projects.

7.      LESSONS LEARNED



                                                - 37 -

        The BEMP is one of the biggest international projects in the beneficiary of MES, financed
by the World Bank and plan to be realized for a period of nine years. The problems connected
with project implementation drive to end of the project with the finalization of the first phase.
Lessons learned are:

        Project Management. During the realization of the program was settled lack of
knowledge in the different stages of the project management. It will be useful in future program to
spare more time in the training of project management staff. The organization of the project
management includes the MES responsibility for overall implementation of the project. PCU was
established with the main task to provide a technical assistance for implementing the public sector
loan. As a hole the project management structure was good created, but in the process of project
implementation the coordination and monitoring faced difficulties. It will be useful in future
project to identify the responsibilities of the units under the projects in details and to think about
the mechanisms to control the implementation of the activities. The often changes of the project
management body (3 PCU Directors, 3 Ministers of MES during a period of 3 years) negatively
affected on the program implementation and development.

        Procurement activities. The procurement experts in all project units were trained in
context with the WB procurement requirements. During the first phase the procurement activities
were rather small than expected. The contractors incl. CTMS did not have the opportunity to
perform procurement activities. Instead of control this procedures PCU undertake all activities for
conducting the tenders. In future should be take into account more decentralization and delegation
of rights to the line units for procurement activities. The often changes of the procurement experts
in the PCU negatively reflect on the collection of the procurement documentation.

        Financial management. The PCU Director has the rights to improve and to sign the
payments on his own responsibility, which can be evaluated positive and important of the project
progress. For the needs of accounting and for the financial management of the BEMP was bought
a special accounting program (PAIS). It will be useful in future to be taking in mind the
implementation of relevant control mechanisms from the beneficiary side for the financial project
management.

        Monitoring and evaluation. The experience gained at the First Phase of the BEMP
showed existing problems connected with the inadequate monitoring and evaluation. One of the
problems was the irregularly preparation of monthly, quarterly, semiannual and annual reporting
of the project implementation.

8.      BANK PERFORMANCE

        During project identification and preparation, the Bank has provided MES with expertise
and international experience for the consideration of technical and operational alternatives related
to the design of interventions aimed at improving quality of teaching and enhancing management
in pre-university and higher education. The Bank's involvement in the education sector in Bulgaria
has already encouraged technical dialogue on subjects that are keys to the improvement of the



                                                 - 38 -

performance of the sector. During project identification and preparation, the Bank has promoted
an increase in dialogue and participatory approaches for the formulation of a strategy for higher
education and the development of a long-term vision for the sector. This allowed the MES to gain
crucial technical knowledge and increase dialogue and cooperation with key stakeholders in the
sector.   As whole the Bank has monitored and oriented the Project implementation in a
satisfactory way in terms of guidance and assessment matters. Supervision activities are performed
on a regular basis as well. Take into consideration the whole performance of the bank, The
Ministry deems the Bank performance and project implementation including preparation and
supervising activities as "satisfactory".

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable.

10. Additional Information


Not applicable.




                                              - 39 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                             Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1 Curriculum Council (CC) established.    Not yet achieved. Detailed actions agreed         1.1 CC was constituted in May 2000, then
1.2 Curriculum Resource Center (CRC)        during mid-term review.                           was put into force in February 2002, and with
established. 1.3 National Assessment Unit                                                     Ministerial order 13 members were assigned
(NAU) is operational. 1.4 Detailed plan for                                                   in April 2003. Since then, met twice, but did
training teachers in the new standards and                                                    not fully engaged in curriculum development.
curriculum is ready and operational.                                                          1.2 CRC was established at the end of 2002
                                                                                              but it was not furnished fully and did not offer
                                                                                              necessary facilities to the curriculum
                                                                                              development groups. 1.3 NAU was
                                                                                              established in April 2000, but due to not
                                                                                              having clear division of work and definition of
                                                                                              TOR, and high turnover of its director, was
                                                                                              not capable of taking on its key functions.
                                                                                              1.4 A detailed action plan to complete the
                                                                                              training of teachers, school principals and
                                                                                              Regional Support Groups (RSGs) in
                                                                                              2003-2004 was drawn up, but was not
                                                                                              realized.

2.1 Legislation to expand Delegated Budget  Not yet achieved. Detailed actions agreed         2.1 As the clarifications on the model of
modified. 2.2 Education Management          during mid-term review.                           decentralization and reconciliation of
Information System (EMIS) established.                                                        contradictions in legislations governing
                                                                                              school management and finance were not
                                                                                              completed, the legislation to expand
                                                                                              delegated budget was not modified. 2.2
                                                                                              EMIS was not established, but MES started
                                                                                              to collect some core statistics, recently.

3.1 Competitive Teaching and Management     The CTMS is on its way to becoming a              3.1 CTMSHE and other related structures
System (CTMS) for Higher Education is       stable, fully functional institution. It is fully were established in March 2001 and fully
operational.                                operational, with adequate legislation,           operational.
                                            properly trained staff, facilities and equipment
                                            required for the first phase.
4.1 Finance Council for Higher Education    Not yet achieved. Detailed actions agreed         4.1 FCHE or Resource Allocation Committee
(FCHE) established. 4.2 Student Loan        during mid-term review.                           (RAC) was established in June 2001,
Agency (SLA) established. 4.3 Higher                                                          re-activated in May 2002, but met
Education Management Information System                                                       sporadically, and only at the end of 2002
(HEMIS) established.                                                                          began to operate. It did not meet as regularly
                                                                                              as it called, and did not act as an
                                                                                              independent body to implement needed
                                                                                              resource allocation reforms. 4.2 No serious
                                                                                              consideration was given to the establishment
                                                                                              of a separate SLA during the implementation
                                                                                              of the project. Instead, in May 2003, Social
                                                                                              and Sports Activity Sector (SSAS) Unit
                                                                                              became the office to assist organize
                                                                                              workshops, meetings etc. 4.3 HEMIS was
                                                                                              not established as a separate unit, but
                                                                                              combined with GEMIS under EMIS. No
                                                                                              progress was made during the
                                                                                              implementation of the project, but MES
                                                                                              started to collect some core statistics,
                                                                                              recently.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                             Actual/Latest Estimate
Capacity Building in MES: 1.1 Train key MES Not yet achieved. Detailed actions agreed         1.1 Not accomplished. 1.2 Development of
personnel in curriculum design and          during mid-term review.                           curriculum standards were done solely by
implementation by 12/2001. 1.2 Develop and                                                    MES staff and with their own resources.
introduce new curriculum standards and




                                                                - 40 -

content for different subjects in grades 1, 5,
and 10 by 9/2001.


1.10 TORs, constitution and memberships of Not yet achieved. Detailed actions agreed          1.10 and 1.11 CC was constituted by
CC defined by January 2001. 1.11 Ministerial    during mid-term review.                       Ministerial order in May 2000 as a condition
Decree creates the CC by March 2001. 1.12                                                     of presentation of the project to the Board of
Recruit and train members of CC by June                                                       directors of the Bank but was not made
2001. 1.13 Complete study visits to schools                                                   operational in three years. Then was put into
by November 2001.                                                                             force in February 2002. 1.12 With
                                                                                              Ministerial order 13 members were assigned
                                                                                              in April 2003. 1.13 Not accomplished.


1.24 Development assessment instruments         Not yet achieved. Detailed actions agreed     1.24 Pilot grade 12 external assessment
for assessing student achievement, including    during mid-term review.                       (two level Matura) on two subjects was
consultation with stakeholders by 7/2002.                                                     developed at the MES. 1.25 Pilot
1.25 Assessment of grade 12 students,                                                         Matriculation Test for grade 12 students was
including pilot test by Y 3/2003. 1.26 MES                                                    conducted in 2002. NAU offered to prepare a
develops a working system to monitor the                                                      comprehensive analysis of the main lessons
efficiency.                                                                                   of Matura exercise, but it was not done.
                                                                                              1.26 Exam programs for 2003 and 2004
                                                                                              were postponed. Development of working
                                                                                              system to monitor efficiency was not
                                                                                              accomplished.


3.1 Two research studies for the                Not yet achieved. Detailed actions agreed     3.1 Not accomplished. 3.2 The seminar
development of a demand-led in-service          during mid-term review.                       was held.
teacher training completed by January 2002.
3.2 One consultation seminar for 60
participants to provide input on proposed plan
for demand-driven in-service teacher training.


School Place Planning and Optimization          Not yet achieved. Detailed actions agreed     2.1 Not accomplished.
System: 2.1 Methodology for School Place        during mid-term review.
Planning and optimization system (SPPO)
including criteria which schools should
satisfy to be educationally and financially
viable is developed by 12/2002.


3.1 Develop and implement capacity for          Not yet achieved. Foreign TA to be recruited. 3.1 not accomplished. 3.2 Not
information gathering through the use of        Major activities will not be completed due to accomplished.
periodic surveys, focus groups, special         none existence of working group.
studies, auditing, etc. by 10/2002. 3.2
Develop and implement capacity for data
analysis (system, statistical, financial, cost,
etc).


1.5 MES prepares a proposal for new             Not yet achieved. Detailed actions agreed     1.5 With the assistance of the TA
allocation procedures by 8/2001. 1.6 New        during mid-term review.                       Consultancy- Helsinki Consulting Group,
allocation procedures for resources and                                                       Resource Allocation Model was revised,
seats are adopted by Parliament by 1/2002.                                                    refinements to the existing formula for
1.7 The new allocation procedures are                                                         resource allocation was prepared and initial
implemented by 7/2002.                                                                        set of indicators for the HEMIS were
                                                                                              prepared. 1.6 As policy decisions were not
                                                                                              taken, new allocation procedures were not
                                                                                              adopted by the Parliament. 1.7 Not
                                                                                              accomplished.


3. A financial model is developed by 7/2001     Not yet achieved. Detailed actions agreed     3. Not accomplished. 4. Not developed, as
to estimate the costs of different financial    during mid-term review.                       it was found out that there was insufficient
assistance arrangements. 4. A proposal is                                                     demand for student loans among the majority
developed by the Student Aid Working Group                                                    of university students because of relatively
by 11/2001 to the MES. 5. MES proposes a                                                      low fees. 5. Not accomplished.
student aid scheme by 4/2002.




                                                                    - 41 -

2.1 Communication campaign to support the Not yet carried out due to difference of      2.1 Not accomplished. 2.2 Not
introduction of new standards and curriculum opinions between the strategies proposed byaccomplished. 2.3 Not accomplished.
content and its implication for teaching     the consultant and the Minister.
methods established by EOP. 2.2
Introduction of new student assessment
system established by EOP. 2.3
Communication campaign

1End of project
Note: The status of the indicators stated in this column of Annex 1 shows the status at the mid-term
review, which took place on December 2, 2002, as the Aide-Memoires, subsequent to the mid-term review,
clearly indicated very little progress.




                                                              - 42 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                           Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million  US$ million
1. Creating conditions for improving the quality of the      5.22           1.15          0.22
teaching force and learning processes in primary and
secondary schools.

2. Creating conditions for improving overall resource        6.13           0.88          0.14
management in primary and secondary schools.

3. Creating conditions for improving overall resource        0.45           0.16          0.35
management in higher education institutions.

4. Establishing a student loan program and reform of         0.23           0.03          0.13
existing system of stipends.

5. Creating a Competitive Teaching and Management            5.59           3.34          0.59
System for Higher Education (CTMSHE) for improving
teaching and resource management.

6. Strengthening MES internal management capacity for        0.67           0.35          0.52
project management and communications.

Total Baseline Cost                                         18.29           5.91
 Physical Contingencies                                                                   0.32
                          Total Project Costs               18.29           5.91
                            Interest during construction                                  0.32
                                          Front-end fee      0.14           0.14          1.00
                   Total Financing Required                 18.43           6.05




                                                  - 43 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 1
                                          Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category        ICB           NCB                  2         N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                             Other
1. Works                        0.00          0.00            0.00            0.05          0.05
                               (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.04)         (0.04)
2. Goods                        3.72          0.37            0.78            0.05          4.92
                               (2.98)         (0.30)         (0.62)          (0.00)         (3.90)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00            3.25            0.00          3.25
                               (0.00)         (0.00)         (2.68)          (0.00)         (2.68)
4. Training                     0.00          0.00            4.81            0.00          4.81
                               (0.00)         (0.00)         (3.88)          (0.00)         (3.88)
5. Competitive Teaching         0.00          0.00            3.74            0.94          4.68
and Management System          (0.00)         (0.00)         (3.74)          (0.00)         (3.74)
for Higher education
6. Recurrent Cost               0.00          0.00            0.00            0.57          0.57
                               (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
   Total                        3.72          0.37           12.58            1.61          18.28
                               (2.98)         (0.30)         (10.92)         (0.04)        (14.24)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                1
                                          Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category        ICB           NCB                 2         N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                            Other
1. Works                        0.60          0.15            0.18           0.00          0.93
                               (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                        0.00          0.00            0.32           0.00          0.32
                               (0.59)        (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.59)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00            1.14           0.00          1.14
                               (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.73)         (0.00)         (0.73)
4. Training                     0.00          0.00            0.84           0.00          0.84
                               (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Competitive Teaching         0.00          0.00            2.88           0.00          2.88
and Management System          (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
for Higher education
6. Recurrent Cost               0.00          0.00            0.10           0.00          0.10
                               (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
   Total                        0.60          0.15            5.46           0.00          6.21
                               (0.59)        (0.00)          (0.73)         (0.00)         (1.32)




                                           - 44 -

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Creating conditions for      3.53         1.05         0.00        1.05         0.10       0.00       29.7      9.5       0.0
improving the quality of
the teaching force and
learning processes in
primary and secondary
schools
2. Creating conditions for      4.20         1.10         0.00        0.75         0.21       0.00       17.9      19.1      0.0
improving overall resource
management in primary
and secondary schools
3. Creating conditions for      0.28         0.11         0.00        0.15         0.05       0.00       53.6      45.5      0.0
improving overall resource
management in higher
education institutions
4. Establishing a student       0.15         0.38         0.00        0.35                    0.00       233.3     0.0       0.0
loan program and reform
of existing system of
stipends
5. Creating a Competitive       3.87         1.02         0.00        3.19         0.14       0.00       82.4      13.7      0.0
Teaching and Management
System for Higher
Education (CTMSHE) for
improving teaching and
resource management
6. Strengthening MES            0.45         0.19         0.00        0.27         0.07       0.00       60.0      36.8      0.0
internal management
capacity for project
management and
communications




                                                           - 45 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


       Although no formal economic analysis was envisaged, nor undertaken under the project, it is clear
from the outcome indicators (Annex 1) that anticipated results were not achieved.




                                                  - 46 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              December 7-17,            4    TEAM LEADER (1);
              1998                           OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (2)
              September 14-30,          7    TEAM LEADER (1);
              1999                           CONSULTANTS (6)
              December 4-10,            6    TEAM LEADER (1);
              1999                           CONSULTANTS (5)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              February 13-25,         12     TEAM LEADER (1);
              2000                           OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); PROJECT
                                             OFFICER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             ASSISTANT (1);
                                             CONSULTANTS (6)

 Supervision
              12/15/2000                5    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT
                                             ANALYST (1)
              06/01/2001                7    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             OPERATIONS/PROCUREMEN
                                             T (1);
                                             MANAGEMENT/FIN.MANAG
                                             E. (1);
                                             MANAGEMENT/OPERATION
                                             S (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             HIGHER EDUCATION (1);
                                             TEACHER TRAINING (1)
              10/16/2001                8    EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);        S               S
                                             OPERATIONS/PROCUREMEN
                                             T (1); OPERATIONS (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (2); HIGHER EDUCATION (1);
                                             TEACHER TRAINING (1)




                                              - 47 -

      31/05/2002    8  TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                       OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                       OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                       PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                       (1); HIGHER EDUCATION (1);
                       TEACHER TRAINING (1);
                       EDUCATION PLANNING AND
                       MANAGEMENT (1); HIGHER
                       EDUCATION COMPETITIVE
                       FUND (1);
      12/31/2002    10 TEAM LEADER (1);              S    U
                       OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                       SENIOR OPERATIONS
                       OFFICER (1); PROCUREMENT
                       ANALYST (1); SENIOR
                       FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                       (1); OPTIMIZATION AND
                       EMIS (1); RESOURCE
                       ALLOCATION AND STUDENT
                       FUNDS (1); CURRICULUM
                       ASSESSMENT (1); HIGHER
                       EDUCATION COMPETITIVE
                       FUNDS (1); TEACHER
                       TRAINING (1)
      04/25/2003    9  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         S    U
                       OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                       PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                       (1); CONS., CURR. & ASSESS.
                       (1); CONS.,COMPETITIVE
                       FUND (1); CONS.TEACHERS
                       PROF DEV (1); SR. FIN.
                       MGMT SPEC. (1); PUBLIC
                       SECT.SPECIALIST (1);
                       UNESCO, EDUC. PLANNING
                       (1)
      10/17/2003    6  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         U    U
                       SENIOR OPERATIONS
                       OFFICER (1); OPERATIONS
                       OFFICER (1); SENIOR
                       PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                       (1); PROCUREMENT
                       ANALYST (1); EDUCATION
                       (1)
      12/12/2003    6  TASK TEAM LEADER (1);         U    U
                       SENIOR OPERATIONS
                       OFFICER (1); OPERATIONS
                       OFFICER (1); SENIOR
                       PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                       (1); EDUCATION (2)

ICR
      04/23/2004    6  ICR TASK TEAM                      U
                       LEADER (1); TASK TEAM
                       LEADER (1); SR



                       - 48 -

                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                            (1); OPERATIONS
                                            OFFICER (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT
                                            ANALYST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT
                                            OFFICER (1)
               06/30/2004             1     ICR TASK TEAM LEADER (1)           U



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               17                           60
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    17                           50
  Supervision                            104                           362
  ICR                                       8                           30
  Total                                  146                           502




                                            - 49 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 50 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 51 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1. Reviews of National Policies for Education - Bulgaria, Center for Co-operation with Non-Members,
    OECD, 2004

 2. Summary of Activities of Establishing of an External Assessment system under the Educational
    Standards and Assessment Component, CITO Group, June 2004

 3. Program Document for a Proposed Second Programmatic Adjustment Loan in the amount of Euro
    123.7 million to the Republic of Bulgaria, The World Bank, May 4, 2004

 4. Final Report on Teacher Qualification, Gopa Consultants, April 2004

 5. inal Report on Improving the Efficiency and Effectiveness of Resource Allocation in the Higher
    Education Sector, Helsinki Consulting Group, March 2004

 6. Final Report on Improving Quality of Teaching and Learning and Management of Institutions,
    Nottingham University Consultants Limited, March 2004

 7. Concise Report on the Results of Research Project, Association for Social Investigations and Applied
    Research Practices, Sofia, February 2004

 8. Intermediary Report, Second Stage - Analysis and Evaluation of Implemented Activities under
    Education Modernization Project - General Education, Association for Social Investigations and
    Applied Research Practices, Sofia, January 2004

 9. Final Report, Item-Banking and Production of Exam Material by Lubomir Djalev, CITO Group, 2003

10. Reports on "Concept for Training Assessors in Bulgarian Language and Literature", "Analysis of
    Results form a Pilot Test in Bulgarian Language and Literature" and "Preparation of Tests and Items"
    by Lubomir Djalev, CITO Group, 2003

11. Report on the seminar on Key concepts of Organizing Examinations and Assessment, CITO Group,
    2003

12. Intermediary Report - Monitoring and Evaluation of Education Modernization Project Activities,
    Association for Social Investigations and Applied Research Practices, Sofia, October 15, 2002

13. Public Opinion Research - Analytical Report, InfoArt Ltd., July 2002

14. Inception Meeting Report of Establishing of an External Assessment System under the Educational
    Standards and Assessment Component, CITO Group, June 2002

15. Business Plan for the National Assessment Unit, CITO Group, June 2002

16. Software Requirements for the Production of National Examinations, CITO Group, June 2002

17. Report on Seminar on Matura Examinations - Preparing for the Pilot Exercise, CITO Group, June
    2002

18. Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for Bulgaria, The World Bank, May 31, 2002

19. Report on the structure and content of the Syllabus in Bulgarian Language and Literature, CITO
    Group, 2002

20. Report on Analysis of Matura Pilot 2002, CITO Group, 2002

21. Study of the Education situation of Ethnic Minorities in the Republic of Bulgaria by Olena



                                                  - 52 -

Marushiakova and Vesselin Popov




                                   - 53 -

- 54 -

