Report No. PID8735
Project Name                     Bulgaria-Education Modernization Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Other Education
Project ID                       BGPE55158
Borrower(s)                      Government of Bulgaria
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Education and Science
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                February 2, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         February 14, 2000
Projected Board Date             May 25, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Background/General description.
Education in Bulgaria is compulsory for children between ages 7 and 16.
Primary education consists of Grades I-IV and schools admit children at the
ages of 6 or 7. There is some repetition in the system but normally students
cover this cycle in four years. There is no formal test at the end of grade
four. Middle schools provide a further four years of schooling in Grades V-
VIII. At the end of Grade VIII there is a formal test of students'
attainment in Bulgarian and Mathematics. The results of this test determine
the type of secondary schooling each child will follow. In most cases Grades
I-VIII are provided in a single school called basic school. In larger
communities, general schools with Grades I-XI are common. Secondary schools
are of four main types: (i) the gymnasium offers a formal academic education
for three years in Grades IX-XI, soon to be extended to XII; (ii) specialist
high schools differ from the gymnasium in that they offer education in
specialized subjects in areas such as foreign language, humanities or the
sciences. These schools are highly selective and select their students at the
end of grade VII by competition. The period of study at these schools is one
year longer because students are asked to spend one extra year between grade
VII and VIII studying the specialized subjects; (iii) technical and art
schools, have the same core curriculum as the gymnasium but are supplemented
by study and training in a vocational area; and (iv) vocational schools offer
two or three year courses leading to a qualification at basic craft level. In
addition to these mainstream schools, there are special schools catering to
the needs of students with special needs. These schools are often located in
remote villages and are poorly staffed and resourced.
Provision of finance and hiring of teachers and non-teacher staff for most
schools is largely the responsibility of approximately 260 municipal
governments which get a subvention from the central Government to cover these
expenses. Although the subvention formula allows municipalities to allocate
funds in line with their individual priorities, the actual discretion of
local governments is limited by tight national guidelines related to class-
size and teacher-per-class requirements. These guidelines are enforced by 28
deconcentrated county Inspectorates responsible to the MES. Another



limitation faced by local authorities is that, although they are usually
represented on selection committees, schools directors are formally appointed
and employed by the MES. All these regulations limit the ability of local
education officials and school directors to make expenditure decisions in
accordance with local needs, preferences and abilities to economize.
During the last decade, education has declined from 11-13 percent of total
government expenditures in the early 1990s, to 9-10 percent in the last two
years. It has also suffered a decline as percentage of the GDP from about 5-
6 percent early in the decade to 3-4 percent in recent years. This decline
has had a significant impact on teacher salaries, which represent by far the
largest category of expenditures (70 percent), school maintenance and
teaching materials.
Access to education. Gross enrollment rates in primary schools of 102 percent
indicates that access is not a problem, however low gross enrollment in
middle (87 percent) and secondary (68 percent) schools are worrisome.
Increasing number of dropouts is perceived as a major problem for secondary
education. High unemployment and the perception that secondary education
studies are irrelevant are said to be the reasons behind the high drop out
rate. However, little is known about the causes of this decline in school
attendance after primary education. More precise measurement of access using
net enrollment rates and in-depth studies of the causes of attrition need to
be conducted in order to determine why attendance is so far below the
compulsory level of age 16.
Issues
Improving quality of teaching and learning in primary and secondary schools.
The current curriculum is well developed along discrete subject lines and is
very demanding in the volume and level of knowledge imparted. There is,
however, a consensus among educators and Ministry officials that there is a
need for a reduction in content, for the introduction of practical elements
in school work, and for a change in teaching styles. Currently, teaching is
based on a teacher-centered methodology focused on imparting knowledge with
very little attention to problem solving, encouragement of discussion,
disagreement and debate, and promotion of research and independent work. The
curriculum development process is dominated by subject content experts
running the risk of developing a curriculum that leaves out important
elements in the emotional, moral and spiritual development of students. In
practice, there is relatively little coordination across subjects. On the
practical side, schools are not structured in a way to facilitate co-
operative approaches to planning and implementing the curriculum. At a
systemic level, MES does not monitor the implementation of the curriculum and
has no formal mechanisms to assess whether pupils are learning what is being
taught, whether they have learned well what was taught previously, and the
extent to which students are reaching the intended standards.
Pre-service teacher training produces quantitatively a more than adequate
supply of teachers for the system, therefore at all levels, teachers are in
possession of pre-service qualifications. Although the structural format of
pre-service training appears to be basically sound, the qualitative content
of that training is more problematic since it is based on highly abstract and
outdated psychology and pedagogical theories and practices, with very little
emphasis on hands-on classroom practices and mentoring. Official in-service
- 2-



training aimed at enhancing teachers qualifications and pay is currently
provided almost exclusively by three in-service teacher-training institutes
which have the monopoly for issuing certificates that are recognized as valid
teachers' career development activities. Although the range of training
offered by these institutions is agreed annually with the MES. The Ministry
has no instruments at its disposal to help monitor either the quality or the
final activities and curricula of courses offered by the institutes. Most
courses are institutions-based and not school-based, they are not organized
to support curriculum changes nor to address the needs of teachers to renew
and extend their skills and understandings. Funding for the institutes is
provided by MES based on historical patterns and negotiations based on the
proposals presented by each institution. The final offering of training
courses respond more to the current capacity of the three institutes than to
the demand of schools or local authorities, including inspectors.
Improving overall resource management in primary and secondary schools.
School directors have no freedom to modify the curriculum and teaching
methods, and lack control over spending of the budget. This situation makes
it extremely difficult to introduce changes at the school level so they can
better respond to local circumstances. In March 1998 the Government, with the
support of PHARE, initiated a pilot program to introduced delegated budgets
to 100 schools in four municipalities Financial Management of School
Education (FMSE). Through this program participating schools receive lump-
sums budgets based mainly on number of students and give directors greater
discretion in spending decisions. A preliminary evaluation of the program
showed that participating schools have achieve greater community involvement
and are using resources more efficiently by saving on current expenditures
such as electric, water and heating bills. These changes have allowed school
directors to introduce innovations in school management as well as in
teaching activities. So far the evaluation of the program has only covered
the monitoring of inputs. As schools become self-managing, evaluation of
effectiveness would need to be judged by educational outcomes. The pilot
program was extended in March 1999 for six months to provide training for
school directors in a further 20 municipalities.
Education efficiency; school network. Since the present school network was
established in the 1960s the number of students in Bulgarian schools have
declined by almost half. In 1998 the school age population (ages 7-17) was 18
percent below that of 1989. The number of schools and classes, however, has
not been reduced in line with declining enrollments. This has been reinforced
by a rigid system of regulations (standards) governing class sizes,
staff/student ratios, staff teaching hours, and teaching practices that have
encouraged a low number of teaching hours per teacher and small class size.
The number of teachers has actually increased during this period leading to a
very generous average pupil-teacher ratio which in primary school is equal to
18 and an average class size of 21. As a consequence, an increased proportion
of scarce resources is now devoted to salaries at the expense of maintenance
of school buildings and educational materials. Over the last 15 years,
several municipalities have experienced declines in first-grade cohorts of
roughly 40-65 percent. There is considerable scope for improving efficiency
in the allocation of school resources at the municipal level, but since
municipalities and individual catchment areas will not experience the same
rate of decline in their school age populations, policy changes will affect
them differently. Therefore, school planning and resource mobilization needs
to be carried out at the school and municipality level. One action taken by
-3 -



education authorities has been the closure of schools, especially in small
villages, but these decisions have not been made with the speed and scope
required. Most municipalities so far have been reluctant to come forward
with optimization proposals because of lack of incentives, concerns of the
impact of school closure on employment, and strong cultural attachment to the
school as the center of village life. Inevitably, school closures will lead
to staff reduction and, consequently, to increased unemployment, often in
remote areas where the creation of new jobs is slow and few alternative jobs
are available.
Education efficiency; class-size and teacher ratios. Two main sources of
inefficiency in Bulgarian education are low class-size and generous teacher-
class ratios. The national average class size varies between 21 to 23 at
different education levels. This figure is not only bellow the national
statutory maximum (22-26) but is also low as compared to observed
international standards. It has been estimated that an increase of 20 percent
in class-size could free up almost 20 percent of total costs. Another source
of inefficiency is the high teacher-class ratios in middle and secondary
schools, which are the combined result of national mandated norms with
respect to teacher-class ratios and teaching-hours regulations. These
regulations, together with the rapid demographic decline, the strong desire
not to increase un-employment during economic decline, the large number of
small rural schools help explain why most schools in Bulgaria have a student-
teacher ratio below 20, and a large majority of middle and secondary schools
show a ratio below 15 students per teacher.
Improving quality of teaching and learning in higher education. During the
last decade higher education has experienced two fundamental transformations.
Universities have gained considerable autonomy while at the same time their
enrollments have increased more than twice, transforming HE from an elite
into a mass system in less than a decade. These transformations, however,
have not been accompanied either by the adoption of a long-term policy
framework, or by a modernization of management at the level of the
institutions and the introduction of a dynamic and competitive system of
resource allocations. As a consequence, Bulgaria still has a proliferation of
highly specialized higher education institutions (there are 86 HE
institutions, amounting to one institution per 100,000 inhabitants) with very
weak internal governance structures, with low quality teaching and research,
with an aging academic staff, with little incentives for staff renewal via
re-training and hiring of young academics, and with deteriorating physical
facilities, libraries, equipment and laboratories.
The increase in higher education enrollment has primarily been a product of
an expansion of fee-paying and part time students, which has more than
doubled between 1991 and 1997. In 1991 the proportion of state subsidized
students represented almost 90 percent, while in 1997 it only reached a level
of 50 percent with the rest being fee-paying students. Part-time students
represented 25 percent of the total number of students in 1991, while in 1997
they represented 35 percent. Public expenditure per student in higher
education has experienced a continuous deterioration, and it is relatively
low as compared to similar countries (the ratio of unit cost to per capita
GDP was 22 percent in 1998 compared with 73 percent for Hungary, 44 percent
for Costa Rica; 40 percent for Romania).
Research and teaching. The higher education system maintains from its past
- 4 -



the divorce between research and teaching and between universities and
science academies. Most research institutes operate under the umbrella of the
Academy of Science and only a few operate as research centers within
universities. In both cases these institutions are underfunded and operate
in relative isolation with respect to HE teaching.
Improving overall resource management in Higher Education institutions. The
Government strategy for HE has included two main components. One is to modify
the system of tuition so all students will be required to pay fees not to
exceed 30 percent of the cost per students. This policy, however, has been
designed in such a way that it is not expected to increase total fee revenue
over the current level because students who presently pay "full cost" will
find their fees reduced in the new fee structure. The other changes consist
of transferring the responsibility for allocation resources from the Ministry
of Finance to the MES and changing the main HE funding mechanism from one
based on historical patterns to one based on a normative cost formula.
In terms of student aid and loans, Bulgaria has a system of student stipends
designed both to support high merit students and also to help students who
demonstrate financial need by paying a portion of their living costs. Budget
restrictions have reduced over time the proportion of students receiving
stipends. There is also a small student loan program to help students paying
tuition fees, but this program has been largely ineffectual.
Since 1989 the allocation of resources and seats in HE has been split between
the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and MES and there has been very little
coordination between the institutions. The process of allocation of resources
does not typically take into account labor force needs and other education-
based criteria, and the process of allocation of seats typically does not
take into account issues of efficiency and effectiveness. Since both
allocation processes have been based primarily on historical patterns they
have retained inequities and inefficiencies existing in the system before the
changes introduced in the 1990s.
Additionally, one of the main problems that policy makers confront is the
lack of a modern system of monitoring and information. Information, even the
most basic is scattered, outdated, of poor quality and difficult to obtain.
In the absence of a transparent system of information policy makers,
government officials tend to operate through detailed regulations, creating a
vicious circle of lack of innovation and risk taking, lack of transparency,
lack of public confidence and trust, lost of autonomy, and increased
dependency from the state.
2. Objectives
During phase one, the program seeks to create the conditions for a more
efficient use of financial, physical and human resources, and for enhancing
the quality of the teaching force and improving the learning processes in
primary, secondary and higher education institutions. To achieve these
objectives the project contemplates: (i) strengthening MES capacity for
introducing new education standards and curriculum in general education, and
for collecting and utilizing education information for monitoring and
decision making both in general and higher education; (ii) providing initial
training to inspectors, school directors and teachers on the newly introduced
standards and curriculum; (iii) expanding a pilot program aimed at giving
- 5 -



school directors greater discretion on spending decisions in their schools;
(iv) developing a methodology to support local efforts to optimize the school
network; (v) reforming the allocation process for resources and seats in
higher education; (vi) creating a competitive fund for improving teaching,
resource management and internal quality assurance in higher education (HE)
institutions; and (vii) establishing a modern student loan and stipend
program for HE. To facilitate project implementation the project will be
supported by a small project coordination unit (PCU) responsible for
providing support to the MES in areas such as procurement, financial
management, project coordination, and communication.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
During project identification and preparation the Bank has provided MES with
expertise and international experience for the consideration of technical and
operational alternatives related to the design of interventions aimed at
improving quality of teaching and enhancing management in pre-university and
higher education. The Bank's involvement in the education sector in Bulgaria
has already encourage technical dialogue on subjects that are key to the
improvement of the performance of the sector. During project identification
and preparation the Bank has promoted an increase dialogue and participatory
approaches for the formulation of a strategy for higher education and the
development of a long term vision for the sector, this has allowed the
Ministry of Education and Science to gain crucial technical knowledge and
increase dialogue and cooperation with key stakeholders in the sector.
Prior to the Bank involvement in the sector the Ministry of Education and
Science was receiving support from the European Community through its PHARE
program and from the Open Society Foundation (OSF) through the support of
small education projects. PHARE and OSF have significantly reduced its
presence and funding to the sector because, in the case of the European
Union, education is not a priority in the process of expansion of membership,
and in the case of OSF because it has redirected its priorities to other
countries in the region. This leaves the Bank as the main international
agency supporting the modernization of education in Bulgaria.
4. Description
I. Improve quality of teaching and learning in general education.
1.1. Introduction of new standards, curriculum and student assessment and
evaluation instruments.
1.2 Awareness-raising training of inspectors, school directors and teachers.
1.3 Develop a demand-led system for in-service training of teachers, school
directors and local education administrators.
II. Improve overall resource management in general education.
2.1 Extend Delegated Budget Program
2.2 Strengthen MES capacity to assist municipalities in the optimization of
the school network.
2.3 Establishment of an Education Management Information System for general
education.
III. Improve efficiency and effectiveness in allocating resources to higher
education (HE) institutions.
3.1 Reform system for allocating resources and seats in HE.
3.2 Establishment of a Management Information System for Higher Education.
IV. Retain accessibility to higher education institutions.
- 6 -



4.1 Establishment of student loan system.
4.2 Reform system of stipends.
V. Improve quality of teaching, learning and management of higher education
institutions.
5.1 Creation of Competitive Fund for Improving Management and Teaching in HE
institutions.
5.2 Strengthen internal management and quality assurance processes in HE
institutions.
VI. Strengthen MES capacity for project management and communication.
6.1 Establishment of Project Coordination Unit.
6.2 Implementation of communication and information strategy.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                               2.8
IBRD                                     10.8
IDA
Total Project Cost                       13.6
6. Implementation
Project actions would take place in the Ministry of Education and Science, at
the Regional and School levels, and at the level of higher education
institutions. Principal participants in the proposed project will be MES
staff, the Inspectorates, Regional and Municipal Officers responsible for
education provision, school directors and teachers, HE rectors, HE academics,
and non-govermental organizations willing to participate in the provision of
some of the services to be finance by the project. Direct responsibility for
the implementation of the project will rest with different units within MES
which will be supported by a small Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
The MES would be responsible for overall implementation of the project. To
coordinate the activities of the proposed Project, the MES will strengthen
the current the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) established in 1995 to
coordinate the technical assistance for implementing the Public Sector
Management Loan. Currently, the PCU is headed by a Project Coordinator, who
is accountable to the Deputy Minister of Higher Education and is staffed with
two persons responsible for procurement and project coordination. It has been
coordinating aspects of the PHRD since June of 1998. Since the
responsibilities of the PCU will grow significantly with the implementation
of the proposed Education Modernization Project, during pre-appraisal, it was
proposed to move the PCU to the Finance and Economics Department of MES. The
PCU would be responsible for conducting procurement and contract
administration according to Bank Guidelines; managing financial systems for
project expenditures, loan accounting, and budgetary resources; producing
semester Project Management Reports (PMR); handling public relations,
dialogue, and feedback with MES management and project stakeholders to ensure
ownership and to promptly resolve problems; ensuring accountability of
contractors and consultants; and liaising with World Bank and other donors.
The PCU would also lead, by January 2003, a Phase I review to be conducted
jointly between the MES and the Bank to assess progress in achieving project
outcomes and triggers for Phase II and to make recommendations for
adjustments as needed. Upon completion of the project, an Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) would be prepared by the MES outlining the project
impact and lessons learned. The PCU will have one director, two coordinators,
-7 -



one each for higher and general education component; two procurement
specialists; one financial management specialist (accountant); one book-
keeper; and one office secretary/ interpreter. It is anticipated that the
PCU would also recruit a public relations/communications expert.
Direct responsibility for implementation of project activities will fall on
different MES line unit and the MES working groups that have participated in
the preparation of the project. They would be responsible for managing the
timely implementation of project activities, including: managing the day-to-
day aspects of project implementation and coordination with stakeholders and
monitoring key performance indicators for both quality and physical outcomes.
To oversee and coordinate the implementation of the HE component of the
project, the MES will establish a Higher Education Steering Committee (HESC)
within the State Policy in Higher Education Department. Rectors of HE
institutions, employers, the MES and Ministry of Finance will be represented
at the HESC. The Director of the State Policy in Higher Education Department
will act as the Secretariat of the HESC, while the HE coordinator of the PCU
will be responsible for the day-to-day operation of the HESC. The head of
the HE working groups will report directly to the HESC through the
Secretariat. In the case of the implementation of the resource allocation
sub-component, the MES will formally establish a Resource Allocation
Committee (RAC) working group which will operate under the guidance of the
HESC and will include staff from the MES Departments of finance, students,
and State Policy in HE.
7. Sustainability
The following factors are critical for sustainability of project benefits:
(i)     Stability in education sector strategy and sector management.
(ii)    Government willingness and capacity to provide system with incentives
for improved efficiency and quality.
(iii)   Local Government willingness and capacity to improve efficiency of
school network.
(iv)    Higher education institutions willingness to improve management
efficiency and quality of teaching and learning.
(v)     Private sector willingness to participate in the provision of in-service
teacher training and student loans.
While it is not possible to avoid political changes during project
implementation, the use of a participatory approach during preparation and a
well defined strategy for a continuous process of consultation, and for a
permanent process of communication and information should help to increase
the prospects for a stable commitment to the objectives of the program and to
a stable project management.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons from several PHARE projects and from Bank financed projects have been
incorporated into the design of this proposed project. The PHARE Project BG
95.06-02: Financial Management of School Education (FMSE) has produced an
interim evaluation that assesses the impact of delegated budgets in schools
taking part in the FMSE project in four municipalities in Bulgaria.
Delegation has already led to efficiency savings, the generation of
- 8 -



additional income, and strengthening of management structures at the school
level. A component within the Bank project proposes to support the effort for
a national extension of the delegated budget developed under the PHARE pilot
project. (see Section C, sub-component 2.1).
Key lessons from the Argentinean Fund for Enhancement of Education Quality
(FOMEC, is the Spanish acronym) indicates that: (i) in order to prepare
competitive proposals HE institutions need to receive technical assistance in
advance; (ii) HE institutions need to enhance both their management capacity
to implement projects and the management information system required for
monitoring investment and tracking quality assurance; (iii) the selection
criteria for the competitive fund should be linked to plans for improvement
of productivity and establishment of modern budget management procedures;
(iv) there is a need for stronger articulation of individual project
components and sub-components; and (v) the management of the Fund needs to
have the capacity and be ready to cut funding to projects that are not
performing.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :   It is not expected that the program will have any
negative impact in the environment since it will only finance rehabilitation
of MES offices required for the operation of the PCU and some of the working
groups, and will not finance construction of schools.
11. Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Ernesto P. Cuadra
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-5311
Fax:         (202) 477-1996
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending Fabruary 25, 2000.
-9-



