Document of                       FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report NoP-3101-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTENATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
June 30, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oflcil dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Since September 1, 1976 the Mexican peso has been floating; it fluctuated
itnund Mex$ 22.60 to the US dollar from mid-1977 to the second half of 1980.
On June 22, 1981, the peso traded at 24.39 per US dollar. An exchange rate of
Mex $23.50 per US dollar was used for currency conversions in this report.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CET:        Center for Technical Studies
(Centro de Educacion Tecnica)
CONALEP:    National Agency for Professional and Technical Education
(Colegio Nacional de Educacion Profesional Tecnica)
IDB:        Inter-American Development Bank
(Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo)
NAFINSA:    Government Development Bank
(Nacional Financiera, S.A.)
PEMEX:      Mexican Petroleum Company
(Petroleos Mexicanos)
SEP:        Ministry of Education
(Secretaria de Educacion Publica)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Nacional Financiera, S.A. (NAFINSA)
Guarantor:         United Mexican States
Beneficiary:       National Agency for Professional and Technical Education
(CONALEP)
Amount:            US$90 million equivalent
Terms:             15 years, including 3 years of grace, at an interest rate
of 9.6 percent per annum.
Project
Description:    The project would support CONALEP in strengthening and com-
pleting its first phase (1979-1983) technical training program
for skilled workers and technicians.
Objectives: The program's goals are to expand the output
of skilled workers and technicians and to improve the quality,
relevance and efficiency of technical training.
Components: The project would include: facilities for
training teachers, development of instructional materials,
and program administration; constructing, or remodelling, and
equipping of 99 technical training centers; and the prepara-
tion of CONALEP's 1984-1988 operations plan.
Benefits: The project would increase CONALEP's enrollment
capacity by 50,000 student places and would provide equipment
necessary for 70;000 trainees. At full development in
1985-86, the project is expected to add annually about 20,000
skilled workers to the labor force. It would also prepare
annually 800 technical teachers, and upgrade specialized
skills for 1,000 employed workers and technicians.
Risks: The major risks are difficulties in recruiting
teachers and retaining students. However, teacher recruit-
ment should be improved by CONALEP's strong program of
teacher training, close cooperation with industry, good
facilities, and adequate salaries. Student retention would
also be improved by CONALEP monitoring closely placement of
its graduates (as well as of dropouts) and by offering more
practical and relevant courses in appropriate laboratory and
shop facilities. Overall, considering the capacity of
CONALEP for executing the program and the strong support of
industrial enterprises for the program, the risks are
acceptable.
I n-,t ha :' restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
L their official duties. itS contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost: 1/
--CategorUS$ Millions------------
Category                            Local           Foreign           Total
I.  Construction                     81.9            18.0              99.9
II.  Equipment                         7.4            66.1              73.5
III.  Furniture                         1.7             0.4               2.1
IV.  Base Cost                        90.9            84.5             175.4
V.  Contingencies                    19.5            20.0              39.4
Physical                      3.7              7.3             10.9
Price                        15.8            12.7              28.5
VI.  Total Cost                       110.4           104.4            214.8
Financial Plan:
-------------US$ Millions-------------
Local           Foreign            Total
Government                          110.4            14.4              124.8
Bank                                  -              90.0               90.0
TOTAL                               110.4           104.4              214.8
Estimated Disbursements:
…---------…US$ Millions--------------
Bank FY                             1982             1983               1984
Annual                              12.0             58.0               20.0
Cumulative                          12.0             70.0               90.0
Rate of Return: Not quantifiable.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3469a-ME, dated June 30, 1981.
1/   Figures do not add due to rounding.  Costs are net of taxes for which
CONALEP is exempt. Costs exclude in-kind contributions, but include
about US$29 million in sunk costs (para 65).



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nacional Financiera, S.A. with the Guarantee of United Mexican States for
the equivalent of US$90 million to help finance a Technical Training Project.
The loan would be repaid over 15 years, including 3 years of grace
with interest at 9.6 percent per annum.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The Mexican economic situation and major issues of economic policy
were analyzed in "Special Study of the Mexican Economy: Major Policy Issues
and Prospects" (2307-ME), distributed to the Executive Directors on May 30,
1979. The most recent economic mission visited Mexico in February 1980 and
is about to finalize its report. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Past Performance
3.        For the three decades preceding the mid-seventies, Mexico was
successful in achieving rapid economic growth while also maintaining stability
in prices and equilibrium in the balance of payments. From 1940 to 1970, GDP
growth exceeded 6 percent per year in real terms, inflation averaged less than
5 percent per year from the mid-1960s to 1972, and the dollar value of the
peso, fixed in 1954, was maintained until 1976. The Government's 'role in this
achievement was to carry out direct investments in infrastructure and in key
industries such as power, steel and petroleum, while creating a stable regula-
tory and institutional framework, as well as good profit prospects, to induce
private sector growth.
4.        This strategy produced considerable progress and better living
standards for many Mexicans. However, the incomes of poor farmers and marginal
urban dwellers, whose productivity was low and has not been increasing, have
been lagging behind. There was, therefore, little reduction in contrasts
within the Mexican economy. Land reform was largely implemented in the
late thirties and while further land redistribution has continued, most of
the peasants who received land could not significantly improve their economic
status as the parcels of land allocated were small, the soil often quite arid
and benefits from infrastructure, credit and technical assistance scant.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report
for the Second Urban and Regional Development Project (P-3035-ME of
April 23, 1981). Only minor changes have been introduced in
paras. 8 and 14.



Rapid population growth, which reached a peak of almost 3.5 percent per year
by the mid-1970s, also made social equity difficult to achieve. Even Mexico's
sustained economic growth was not sufficient to absorb the rapidly growing
labor force into productive employment, and by the 1970s some 50 percent of
the labor force was either relatively unproductive and poorly paid, or openly
unemployed.
5.        Policies undertaken to remedy this situation in the first half of
the seventies were somewhat self-defeating. As a result, by the mid-1970s
Mexico experienced increasing public sector deficits, inflation, large balance
of payments deficits, capital flight and a marked slowdown in the real rate of
growth of GDP, which dropped to 2 percent in 1976--the lowest rate experienced
since the mid-thirties. On September 1, 1976 the authorities abandoned the
fixed exchange rate and let the peso float; it devalued by 80 percent. The
authorities also adopted a plan for economic stabilization for which Mexico
obtained major support from the IMF. The Administration which took over in
December 1976, established as its main objective control of inflation, to be
followed by a return to high rates of economic growth. The former was to be
achieved through stabilization policies, while the latter was to be made
possible thanks to the impact of major oil discoveries which would reduce
the foreign exchange constraint. Both objectives were important in restoring
the confidence of the private sector.
Recent and Current Situation
6.        The Government succeeded in bringing inflation down to 17 and 18 per-
cent in 1978 and 1979, respectively, as against an annual rate of almost
29 percent in 1977. The deficit in the current account of the balance of
payments peaked at US$4.2 billion (or 5.3 percent of GDP) in 1975 and declined
to US$1.8 billion (equivalent to 2.5 percent of GDP) in 1977. Favorable oil
prospects and increasing capital inflows brought about a rapid increase in
imports reflecting both a decisive reduction in protectionism and the growing
demand for capital and intermediate goods upon which the expansion of the
economy depended. The current account deficit increased to US$2.9 billion (or
3.2 percent of GDP) in 1978 and further to US$5.2 billion (about 4.3 percent
of GDP) in 1979. The public sector deficit peaked at about 9 percent of GDP
in 1975 and declined to about 7 percent in 1979. Mobilization of savings by
the banking system has recovered. GDP growth was about 7 percent in 1978 and
8 percent in 1979 as compared to 2 percent in 1976.
7.        The growth record for 1980 continued to be favorable and GDP is
estimated to have increased at about 7.5 percent. The current account deficit
of the balance of payments was much higher than anticipated due to continued
expansion of imports (mostly capital and intermediate goods and foodstuff)
and is estimated to have been US$6.7 billion (about 4 percent of GDP).
Despite the substantial inflow of imported goods, strict domestic credit
restrictions, generally adequate lending rates and modest increases in real
wages coupled with substantial productivity increases, inflation has been
higher than anticipated. This is essentially because of expansionary budgetary
policies, with investments increasing at a rate of more than 15 percent a
year in real terms. A shortage of essential consumer goods and construction
materials, aggravated by the inadequacy of the transport system to handle
distribution of domestically produced goods along with increasing imports, has
contributed to price increases. The increase in the consumer price index in
1980 was around 30 percent.



- 3 -
8.        The persistence of strong inflationary pressures is beginning to
e:._rt increasing influence upon a number of factors in the Mexican economic
scene. First, the now substantial differential between price trends in Mexico
and in its major trading partners, which has not been fully compensated in the
exchange rate, is eroding the hitherto adequate inducements to export non-oil
goods and makes imported goods increasingly attractive to domestic users, even
in cases where domestic production is efficient. While the peso has been
allowed to depreciate vis-a-vis other currencies, its float is very moderate.
It is estimated that by the end of 1981 such depreciation will be of the order
of 8-9 percent. At the present forecast of the 1981 price movements in Mexico
and in the world markets this would compensate for only a part of the
differential between these trends. Secondly, wage pressures, which have
been moderate and have not contributed to the inflationary process up to now,
may gain force if strong inflation continues. Both these impacts could affect
the pattern of resource allocation in Mexico, tilting it toward capital inten-
sive processes of production.
9.        The Government will not have an easy task in maintaining price
increases much below 30 percent during 1981. The need to expand public invest-
ment in key infrastructure sectors and to maintain the present level of expen-
diture in the energy sector leaves relatively little scope for significant
adjustments in the size or structure of public expenditure. At the same
time, the intention of the Government to implement much delayed increases
in prices of publicly supplied goods like gasoline will imply a temporary push
upwards of the price index.
Economic Problems and Prospects
10.       Mexico has the organizational and natural resources necessary to
attain its ambitious goals of rapid growth and alleviation of poverty.
The new petroleum riches will greatly relax the financial constraints on
growth. The proven oil and gas reserves are estimated at about 60 billion
barrels. Exploitation of these reserves should allow Mexico to substantially
increase production of crude oil and natural gas from the equivalent of about
1.2 million bbl/day in 1976. The recently stated goal of the Government is to
reach a production level of about 3.0 million bbl/day in 1981, and to more or
less maintain it at a level that will accommodate exports of 1.5 million
bbl/day (compared to the 1.1 million bbl/day target up to September, 1980).
The Government continues to indicate its unwillingness to exceed this limit
for fear that Mexico will increasingly become a classical "oil producing
country" with the economic and social tensions that would ensue. But even at
this production level, the challenge is:  how to mobilize Mexico's resources--
its human skills, its institutions, and its experience--to help resolve its
long term development problems. The most serious of these are poverty,
unemployment, inadequate growth of agricultural production in non-irrigated
lands, and urban-regional imbalances.
11.       Poverty:  Mexicans have participated unevenly in the remarkable
economic growth of the last several decades. According to estimates for
1977, at least 2.8 million households (25 percent of the total) had incomes
of less than one-third the national average, of which at least 2.4 million
(22 percent of the total) lived in absolute poverty. The root causes of
this persistent problem are three: rapid population growth, past neglect
of non-irrigated agriculture (where some two-thirds of the poor are principally
employed), and slow absorption of labor in high-productivity jobs.



- 4 -
12.       The Government is acting on all three fronts.  A family planning
program started in 1972 has already helped reduce population growth from
3.5 percent per year to an estimated 2.9 percent in 1980. The program is
being further strengthened by the present Administration, with the ambitious
goal of reducing population growth to 2.5 percent per year by 1982 and to
1 percent by the year 2000. New approaches are also taking hold in rainfed
agriculture (para. 15). On the employment front, new tax incentives have
reduced the anti-employment bias and additional efforts to stimulate employment
will have to be continued. The expected rapid growth of output should also
create jobs more rapidly. In spite of this progress, however, the still rapid
growth of population and the staggering increase of the labor force (at 3.7
percent per annum) made unavoidable by the high percentage of young people in
today's population, renders the eradication of absolute poverty a difficult
goal to attain in the near future. The Government has under its consideration
several types of subsidies for the poor. These could prove to be short-term
palliatives and preempt resources which would otherwise be available for
investment in employment-creating activities or for improving educational or
health standards of the poor on a more permanent basis.
13.       Open and hidden unemployment, which are now respectively at 6-7
percent and 40 percent of the labor force, will remain major problems in the
years to come. With the expected GDP growth rate of 8 percent per annum, the
economy should be able to absorb the additional labor force, assuming no
significant change in the participation rate (now at about 29 percent) and
some increase in labor productivity. In absolute terms, however, the present
levels of underemployment and unemployment are likely to remain.
14.       A National Employment Plan was published in 1979.  It calls for a
number of measures to strengthen the so-called informal sector in both urban
and rural areas. To increase the productivity of those employed outside
the modern sector, and their employment opportunities, a major effort will be
required in the area of vocational training. Technical assistance programs
are also needed to stimulate more organized and structured forms of activities,
especially in the services sector. While there is no doubt that the author-
ities are concerned about unemployment and underemployment, and while the
institutional structure to carry out some important programs already exists,
a concentrated effort will be required to take effective action and to make
better use of human resources by improving technical skills to reduce substan-
tially the level of hidden and open unemployment.
15.       In agriculture, crop and livestock production has shown inadequate
growth since the mid-1960s and, of late, demand has outstripped domestic
supplies of grains. Faced with diminishing returns to investment in new
large-scale irrigation works, continuing low productivity and income per
capita in the non-irrigated ("rainfed") sector, widespread malnutrition and
increasing dependence on imported food (especially grains), the present
Administration has launched a major program (SAM - the Mexican Food System)
aimed at increasing self-sufficiency in food, providing for minimum nutritional
needs of the rural and urban poor and increasing rural employment. SAM
emphasizes increased production of grains through a combined system of sub-
sidies, guaranteed producer prices and government underwriting of crop loss
risks. Greater emphasis is being placed on technical assistance, demonstration



and credit to develop the underutilized rainfed agricultural potential.
Programs to rehabilitate existing irrigation works serving nearly one million
ha are underway. Small-scale irrigation development is being promoted.
Construction of new large-scale irrigation units continues, but now represents
a smaller proportion of government investment. The banking system is being
encouraged to provide greater support to agricultural production and processing
programs. These initiatives, coupled with an upgrading of the farming labor
force, should lead to an acceleration of production growth, more equal develop-
ment opportunities for Mexico's farmers, and an improvement in the living
conditions of the rural poor.
16.       The main urban-regional problems are two-fold:  (a) growing conges-
tion, pollution, high cost of services (especially water) and other manage-
ment problems that stem from the continued rapid growth of Mexico City (already
the third most populous metropolitan area in the world and moving rapidly to
become the first) and other areas in the dry, densely populated central
plateau, and (b) retarded development, poverty and great difficulty in pro-
viding better jobs or adequate public services to the one-third of all Mexicans
who live in towns of less than 2,500 inhabitants. The present Government has
taken many positive steps to confront these problems, including an administra-
tive re-organization, elaboration of a comprehensive plan, and introduction of
a strong package of incentives to promote growth in a few well-selected growth
poles.
17.       The expected high growth rate of the economy in the years to come
is the country's strongest weapon with which to reduce poverty and unemployment.
Industry has moved to the leading position and is expected to play a major role
in expanding domestic production and exports. A National Industrial Development
Plan was published in 1979 and it reflects the preoccupation of the present
Administration with the long-term prospects of the industrial sector and their
implications for employment. Industry has the potential for considerable
expansion in many areas, including efficient import substitution in chemicals,
petrochemicals and capital goods as well as exports of a variety of manufactured
products. While most of the above industries are known for their capital
intensity, they are expected to promote secondary industries with considerable
employment opportunities. These will be enterprises producing secondary
petrochemicals, finished plastic goods, metal parts and components for capital
goods. Tourism export earnings are also expected to increase substantially.
The prospects for the industrial sector are, however, subject to the caveats
mentioned in para. 8 above.
18.       The main problem for the Mexican economy in the years to come will
remain the reconciliation of high growth rates with relative price stability
and a larger participation of low-income groups in the expanding wealth of
the nation. The National Development Plan, published in April, 1980, marks
the final step in the planning activities carried out by the present
Administration and places in a consistent framework the specific targets
indicated in a number of sectoral plans prepared in the previous two years.
In addition to presenting a macroeconomic picture of development prospects,
the National Development Plan dwells in great detail on the policies required
to achieve various economic and social targets. These policies are essentially
sound but call for a major implementation effort on the part of the Administra-
tion. Growth with low inflation poses difficult challenges 6f adjusting
prices of public goods and services without undermining the existing consensus



- 6 -
of the country, and improving income distribution would call for policies that
encourage labor intensive technologies in industry and agriculture without
slowing down modernization of the economy.
19.       Mexico's public and publicly guaranteed debt service ratio has
been increasing over the recent past and peaked at 69 percent in 1979. This
high ratio reflects the still relatively low level of exports to GNP and the
high proportion of Mexicar. borrowing from commercial banks; the ratio of
external public debt to GNP (24 percent in 1979) is average for middle-income
countries. The public debt service ratio declined to around 30 percent in
1980, not only as a result of rapid increases in petroleum exports but also
because some of the debt contracted on the least favorable terms had been
prepaid. Debt service on Bank loans amounted to about 3.2 percent of public
debt service in 1980; this ratio is projected to remain about the same during
the early and mid-1980s. The Bank currently holds about 5.7 percent of
Mexico's total medium and long-term public debt, and this ratio is not likely
to change significantly over the next few years. Mexico is creditworthy for
borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
Bank Operations
20.       As of May 31, 1981, Mexico had received 71 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$4,954.4 million net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 38 loans totalling US$1,870.4 million were fully disbursed. The Bank
held US$4,235.1 million, of which US$2,072.4 million had not yet been disbursed.
Some 43 percent of Bank lending has been for agriculture-and rural development
(24 loans for US$2,132.7 million), 15 percent for industry (12 loans for
US$747.5 million), 14 percent for power (12 loans for US$704.8 million), and
17 percent for transportation (15 loans for US$830.4 million); the remaining
11 percent has been for water supply (US$244.5 million), tourism (US$114
million), and urban development (US$180.5 million) projects. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans as of May 31, 1981 and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
21.       Implementation of most Bank-financed projects was delayed during
the period of economic difficulties in the mid-1970s and during the period of
adjustment and stabilization that followed the September 1976 devaluation of
the peso. Since then, the Government has taken important actions to accelerate
implementation of the projects. Adequate budget financing has been provided.
Projects which had important structural constraints were modified and rephased
to account for changed circumstances. Government and Bank officials have
periodically met to review project implementation, and greater attention has
been focused in Mexico on monitoring project implementation and disbursements.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Second Urban and Regional Development Project (P-3035-ME of April 23,
1981). However, minor changes have been introduced in paras. 20-22 and
24-28.



- 7 -
As a result of these measures, most of the Bank-assisted projects are proceed-
ing satisfactorily and plans have been formulated to strengthen execution of
those projects where improvement is still needed. The effectiveness of these
actions is reflected in disbursement totals. In FY78 US$91 million were
disbursed to Mexico, in FY79 disbursements totalled US$233 million and in
FY80 disbursements further increased to US$404 million, or 38 percent of the
undisbursed balance at the beginning of the year. FY81 disbursements through
May were US$350 million.
IFC Operations
22.       As of May 31, 1981, IFC had made investment commitments in
23 companies in Mexico, for a total of US$551.2 million, of which US$401.2
million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC
investments is presented in Annex II.
Bank Strategy
23.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to:
(i) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (ii) help finance projects that make, directly
or indirectly, significant contributions to output and employment; (iii) help
reduce Mexico's urban-regional imbalances; and (iv) help break bottlenecks
preventing more rapid growth. Therefore, the Bank has preferentially sup-
ported projects of high social priority that help the rural or urban poor,
projects that promote higher levels of employment and production, and those
that help to decentralize economic activity. Given Mexico's potential for
satisfying its future foreign exchange needs, the Bank is now concentrating
on the institution-building aspects of the projects it finances and on the
development of suitable sectoral and economic policies through regular dis-
cussions with the authorities as well as in the context of project financing.
The Bank is thus helping to create the institutions, policies and mechanisms
which would channel self-generated resources to meet the above mentioned
objectives in the future. The Government is fully in accord with this new
emphasis, and has requested that the Bank concentrate its efforts on sectors
which are of key importance to Mexico's development and which require insti-
tutional improvements and/or the formulation of suitable policies with great-
est urgency. The proposed project would match this strategy by helping to
expand the supply of trained technical manpower and by strengthening an impor-
tant institution for technical training.
24.       Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture, and
the sector's crucial importance to the country's further development, the Bank
has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending. The Bank's agricul-
tural lending program for Mexico has four goals: first, to increase produc-
tivity of presently cultivated lands through selected programs of irrigation
and on-farm improvements; second, to improve the productivity of small farmers
through programs for (a) rural development, (b) rainfed agricultural develop-
ment, and (c) bringing new areas in the humid tropics under cultivation;
third, to complement infrastructure investments with general support services,
including agricultural extension and marketing programs and provision of
medium-term credit; and fourth, to promote employment opportunities in rural



- 8 -
areas through programs of agro-and rural-industries. The Bank has made eleven
loans in FY76-81 totalling US$1,466 million for irrigation, rural development
and agricultural, agro-industrial and livestock credit programs. Several
projects for rainfed agriculture, rural development, irrigation and support
services are in preparation. A loan for a rural development project is
being negotiated.
25.       Past Bank lending for industry has been aimed at: (a) assisting
the Government's efforts to reduce the balance of payments deficit; (b) decen-
tralizing industrial activities away from the major and increasingly congested
urban areas; and (c) promoting greater employment in the sector by supporting
medium- and small-scale industry. A steel project which the Bank helped
structure and finance is now operating in a previously underdeveloped area
on the west coast of Mexico (Lazaro Cardenas) and the city in which it is
located is developing into a new growth pole. The fertilizer sector has been
strengthened by two Bank assisted projects which the State-owned fertilizer
company (FERTIMEX) is carrying out. Loans for projects to promote the develop-
ment of small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises and to support an
industrial equipment fund (FONEI) were approved by the Executive Directors in
FYs78-79; they offer support to the private sector at a time of rapid expansion.
The Executive Directors also approved in FY80 a second small and medium scale
industries project and a project for the mining sector, which up to now has
received insufficient resources from the financial system. Two capital goods
industries projects are under discussion for possible Bank support, which
would aim at assisting the Government to develop adequate policies for the
sector, institution-building, and the transfer of appropriate technology to
Mexico, so that employment might be increased in the engineering subsector
and the base in the manufacturing industry strengthened. One of these projects
was recently appraised. A project to reduce air and water pollution in the
Mexico City and adjoining areas has been appraised and will be presented
to the Executive Directors in the coming months.
26.       As regards physical infrastructure, the Bank's operations have been
focused on investments in key areas of the country as well as on institutional
reforms and sector policies aiming, inter alia, at suitable pricing mechanisms
to help generate additional resources for investment financing. The Airports
Development Project (FY74) was designed to support the Government's policy of
regional integration; the Fourth Railway Project (FY81) supports improvements
of institutional aspects and financial management of the sector. The Mexico
City Water Supply and Sewerage Project (FY 73) was instrumental in the strength-
ening of specialized institutions for the efficient provision of water and
sewerage in the capital city. The First and Second Medium Size Cities Water
Supply and Sewerage Projects (FY76 and 81, respectively) were designed to
reinforce the planning, managerial and financial performance of specialized
water supply and sewerage institutions at the federal and municipal levels
and contribute to the establishment of tariffs more closely related to costs.
A Highway Sector Project was approved by the Executive Directors in FY79. A
loan to assist the Mexican Government in structuring large investments in port
development was approved by the Executive Directors in March 1981.
27.       The Government and the Bank have long recognized the regional
economic disparities prevailing in Mexico. In June 1976 the Government
enacted a law of human settlements to provide a new institutional framework



- 9 -
to deal with the pressing problems of over-concentration of economic activi-
ties in the larger metropolitan areas. The Government has adopted a National
Urban Development Plan that spells out its regional development priorities
in operational terms, and several projects are now being prepared to meet the
needs for basic urban services for poor families and to provide key regional
infrastructure in selected priority cities. One such project, to assist in
the development of the Lazaro Cardenas conurbation area on the West Coast,
was approved by the Executive Directors in FY78, and a second project for
oil-producing southeastern Mexico was approved by the Executive Directors
in FY81.
28.       The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting CECADE
(a similar institute under the Ministry of Programming and Budgeting) in
training Government staff in several aspects of project preparation, monitor-
ing and evaluation. A course on urban and regional development has recently
been concluded and several courses for agriculture, rural development, and
agro-industries are programmed for the near-term.
29.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans totalling
US$2,428 million to December 31, 1980. Over sixty percent of this lending
has gone for agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance
for transportation, industry, water supply, and tourism infrastructure. In
1980, the IDB approved three loans totalling US$280 million for water supply,
fisheries and pre-investment study projects. The IDB and the Bank have worked
in parallel on several projects; most recently the IDB and the Bank have each
made loans for the National Program for Small-Scale Agricultural Infrastruc-
ture, the Integrated Rural Development Program (PIDER), agricultural and live-
stock credit, small- and medium-scale industries development, and hotel develop-
ment projects. The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) has
approved a loan of US$22 million for a rural development project in the State of
Oaxaca which was appraised by the Bank's staff and for which the Bank is acting
as cooperating institution for administering the loan. The Bank has financed
a few projects in which there has been parallel financing from bilateral and
commercial sources (e.g., power, steel and tourism development projects). In
recent discussions with the Government, the possibility of a more widespread
use of cofinancing arrangements was explored, and we intend to seek opportuni-
ties for such cofinancing in the near future.
PART III - THE TECHNICAL TRAINING SECTOR
Background
30.       The Mexican economy, which grew at an annual average of almost 8 percent
in the last three years, provided over the same period a 4 percent annual increase
in employment. Skilled manpower requirements are growing faster than overall
employment because of significant shifts toward modern industry, and as industrial
development accelerates, Mexico's shortages of skilled and technical workers are
becoming more acute. While precise estimates of technical and skilled manpower



- 10 -
requirements are not available, their broad order of magnitude indicates that
current requirements exceed the supply ten-fold (para 35), and the shortfall
is steadily increasing.
31.       The projected growth rates for GDP and employment in Mexico in the
next few years are high. The National Development Plan for 1980-82 targets
average annual growth rates of: 8 percent for GDP and 4.2 for employment; 13
percent for private investment; and 14 percent for public investment. However,
there is a growing concern that the lack of adequately trained manpower will
become a serious bottleneck to the development process. If this shortage is
not alleviated, it would be difficult for industry to meet the planned 11 per-
cent annual industrial growth target and even more difficult for Mexico to
remain competitive in international markets.
General Education
32.       The general education system in Mexico is well developed and
covers 70 percent of the population in the 6-24 age bracket. The ratio of
actual output to maximum potential output shows relatively good efficiency
(this ratio was 75 percent for primary education and 85 percent for general
secondary education in 1979), and enrollment in higher education is growing.
Trained teachers and textbooks are in adequate supply, and the sector is
reasonably financed. The share of public education in total federal government
expenditures has remained at about 17 percent during the late 1970's. State
governments and the private sector also spent significant amounts on education,
bringing total education expenditures to about 5 percent of the GDP in 1980.
This is a reasonable effort, which places Mexico between the upper and medium
quartile of education expenditures among one hundred countries.
33.       Middle-level education (grades 10-12) comprises four categories:
academic, teacher training, terminal technical, and dual-purpose technical
(i.e. technical programs that lead either to higher education or provide
technicians to the labor market). There are over 2,000 middle-level schools
in Mexico. Their total enrollment is around 1.2 million students, and they
produce about 235,000 graduates each year. In contrast with the generally
favorable position of Mexico's general education system, there are major
deficiencies in technical training at the middle level.
Middle-Level Technical Education
34.       Academic and dual-purpose technical education streams produce
graduates who continue to higher education; less than 10 percent of graduates
enter the labor force (para 35). Until 1978, the middle-level terminal
technical education system consisted of: the Centers for Technical Studies
(CET) under the Ministry of Education (SEP) with only 17 such schools; two
schools to train technical instructors; and the Centers for Studies in Agricul-
tural and Livestock Technology. While the academic stream produces an accept-
able number of qualified graduates, the terminal technical education system
has a number of problems, including insufficient output, inadequate mix of
graduates, poor quality of training, and a lack of relevance of training to
the needs of employers.



- 11 -
35.        Insufficient Output.  Excluding teachers, only 9,600 graduates
of technical training programs joined the labor force in 1978, while the
estimated demand for skilled workers and lower-level technicians that year was
about 130,000. The factors that contributed to this shortfall were: insuffi-
cient number of applicants to terminal and dual-purpose technical training
institutions (in 1978, 39,000 out of 500,000 ninth grade graduates); low com-
pletion rates in terminal training; low proportion (only 20 percent) of the
graduates of dual-purpose programs joining the labor force; and insufficient
training opportunities resulting mainly from a concentration of training
places in Mexico City and a few other regions.
36.        Imbalanced Output.  Because most graduates of middle-level technical
training programs continue to higher education streams, there is an acute and
growing shortage of middle level technicians. Overall, there are about three
engineers in the labor force for each technician; this ratio should be closer
to one engineer for every five technicians. This means that some engineers
are employed in less demanding positions while some untrained or partially
trained individuals are assuming responsibilities beyond their skill levels.
37.        Quality.  Technical training tends to be of inadequate quality due
to a lack of practical content. Contributing factors include: (a) a lack
of qualified teachers, experienced in industry and business; (b) training that
is not oriented to the practical aspects (as of 1978, less than 10 percent of
students' time was spent in workshops); (c) inadequate supplies of materials;
(d) curricula that are developed independently of industry and provide training
that does not match industrial skills profiles; and (e) a lack of student
evaluation, placement services, and follow up.
38.        Lack of Relevance.  Training is not relevant to the job market.  This
is because of the fragmentation of programs, the centralization of management
and curriculum development, the use of instructors without industrial experience,
and the lack of participation of business and industry in technical training
programs.
39.        There is an urgent need to expand the supply of skilled and technical
manpower entering the labor force.  The Government has taken two important
actions to strengthen technical training. A law passed in 1980 requires
employers to provide on-the-job training to their employees, either through
private programs specific to the firm or through general training programs
coordinated by the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare. The Government
also created, in 1978, an independent agency to take responsibility for
middle-level terminal technical training--the National Agency for Professional
and Technical Education (CONALEP).
The National Agency for Professional and Technical Education (CONALEP)
40.        CONALEP differs from other middle-level technical training programs
on the following counts: (a) it is semi-autonomous, which facilitates its
responsiveness to changing needs and the participation of the productive
sector; (b) its administration is decentralized, which facilitates delegation
of operational decisions to local training authorities and advisory boards;
(c) business and industry play an important role in the design of training
courses and in the provision of trained instructors; (d) its curriculum has a
practical orientation with emphasis on job-market related skills and actual
~erience; (e) students' performance is evaluated, and assistance is offered



- 12 -
in job placement and follow-up; (f) students pay tuition fees that are propor-
tional to their training costs; and (g) its unique multi-media studenit recruit-
ment approach enhances its public image and promotes the active support of the
productive sector.
41.       Organization and Management.  CONALEP is headed by a Director
General, appointed for a four-year term by the President. The Board of
Governors of CONALEP includes seven business and industrial leaders appointed
by the Minister of Education to serve staggered terms. A panel of business
persons from the various regions of the country serve as advisors to the
Board. At the central level, CONALEP has directors for planning, operations
and teacher training, evaluation and certification, as well as for administra-
tive and other staff functions. Six regional coordinators are responsible for
ensuring the relevance of local training programs and identifying future
training needs. In doing this, they maintain close contact with business and
industry in their region. Locally, a CONALEP director heads each technical
training center. An advisory committee, largely composed of local business
persons, assists the director in keeping the training program relevant.
42.       Through CONALEP's close ties to business and industry at the national
and local levels, a strong and successful effort is made to maintain training
courses that are relevant to the demands of the employment market. These ties
have contributed to CONALEP's early success in recruiting experienced instruc-
tors from industry and are expected to facilitate placement of CONALEP-trained
graduates (the first class will graduate in 1983).
43.       The CONALEP program is being advertised through an effective pro-
motion campaign directed towards business, parents, and potential students.
The large number of students attracted by this program and the amount of
assistance that CONALEP receives from business is an indication of its success.
This campaign emphasizes the important role of skilled workers and technicians
in economic and social development and describes the CONALEP training program,
including employment opportunities and the job-placement system.
44.       Training Centers & Programs of Study.  CONALEP's training programs
are carried out in centers located throughout the country. By January 1981,
10 training centers had been completed, and 52 additional centers, ranging in
size from 400-2,000 students, were in various stages of completion and par-
tially operational in temporary facilities. The enrollments, programs of
study and location of centers are determined on the basis of national, regional
and local development plans. Courses are given in day and evening shifts, with
two shifts per center. The course of study is three years; in addition,
a number of specialized short courses are offered (para 62). There are about
19,000 students enrolled in the fields of agriculture and food processing,
industry and construction, textiles, business and commerce, and health.
Enrollment is open to qualified students who have completed grade nine. The
evening shift is also open to employed youths and adults who are considered
to have an equivalent level of education. Because of the severe lack of
equipment, programs of instruction currently consist, in many instances,
of theory courses taught in the training centers with workshops conducted in
nearby business and industrial facilities. CONALEP's courses of study are
heavily oriented toward practical experience; on average, 50 percent of
student time is devoted to technical practice, 35 percent to technical theory,
and 15 percent to general theory. Experienced subject-matter specialists



- 13 -
assisted by specialists from business and industry develop curricula and
course syllabi. The advisory committee members from local industry and
instructors assist in adapting the basic course syllabi to regional require-
ments.
45.        Experienced and qualified teachers teach all general subjects.
Technicians and engineers are recruited on a part-time basis to teach the
technical theory and workshop classes. Local industry often cooperates in
making such staff available as appropriately equipped training centers become
available. Preparation of these instructors is being carried out by CONALEP
through its own teacher training unit. There is a training unit for instructors
with eight full time trainers assisted by qualified part-time trainers on a
contract basis. The 62 training centers operational in 1980-81 employed about
1,500 instructors. About 2,000 instructors are currently enrolled in pre-
service courses, and another 1,450 in in-service courses. This compares
with the 4,100 additional instructors CONALEP estimates it will need by 1985.
46.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  Student evaluation, follow-up and
feedback are joint functions of the local training centers and the National
Directorate of Evaluation and Certification. This directorate has a well-
qualified staff consisting of 10 professionals and adequate numbers of support
personnel. It is currently developing and distributing instruments to evaluate
instructor and student performance. As the existing centers have not yet
graduated students, current emphasis is on evaluation of instructor and
student performance and on investigating the causes of the dropouts. Follow-up
instruments for assessing CONALEP graduates' job performance are being prepared
and will be applied to CONALEP's first graduating class. The directorate is
assisting the local centers in the proper use and evaluation of the new
instruments and in the feedback of relevant information into the curricula and
the teaching-learning process. This information will help the local instruc-
tors and the national level subject matter specialists to improve curricula
and course syllabi.
47.        Financing.  The Federal Government's allocation to the CONALEP
program for 1981 is about US$50 million, or about 0.7 percent of the recurrent
budget for the Ministry of Education. The anticipated allocation for 1982 is
US$79 million. In addition to these funds, CONALEP is authorized to receive
funds from the productive sector. Such contributions to January 1981 amounted
to an equivalent of US$64 million, and were mostly in-kind donations of land,
rent-free buildings, and equipment. Recurrent unit costs in 1980 were equiva-
lent to about US$1,000 per student-year, or, at 1978 constant prices, about
US$660. These costs compare favorably with the national averages, which, in
1978 were the equivalent of US$675 1/ per student-year for the upper middle
level and US$$1,000 1/ per student-year for basic vocational training.
Student tuition fees are equivalent to one-tenth of the average recurrent
training costs per year with an additional amount payable without interest
over the five years after graduation and employment.
48.       Development Plans.  At present, CONALEP's development plans are in
two phases, 1979-83 and 1984-88, of which the second one is still at a pre-
liminary stage. The top priority of the first phase is to establish a firm
administrative base for the effective management of the system. Strong
staffing and organizational design have been achieved, but CONALEP's direc-
torates are physically dispersed. Another top priority is to expand the
1/   Unweighted average.



- 14 -
training output. Plans call for an increased output of graduates through
the construction, furnishing and equipping of 36 new training centers (in
addition to the 62 already partially or fully operational) and a special
training center. The combined enrollments of these 37 centers would be about
24,900 regular and 1,000 special students. Total enrollment in the 99 centers
would be about 70,000 in 1985-86. These training centers would be located
throughout the country in accordance with skilled manpower demand and regional
development needs. The inclusion of facilities and equipment for an instructor
training center within a Central Administrative Support Complex, and improved
equipment for the regional ad-hoc instructor training program is also advocated
in the plans.
49.       The CONALEP program appropriately addresses the issues of the sub-
sector, is well-designed and is being rapidly implemented. Among its more
important strengths are those of: (a) a well organized and staffed adminis-
tration; (b) the practical orientation of its curriculum which is terminal
in nature; (c) the use of industrially experienced and pedagogically qualified
instructors; and (d) a highly successful promotional program. However, there
are some deficiencies and weaknesses in CONALEP that must be corrected to
achieve the goals of its development. The capabilities of the planning
directorate need to be strengthened and the second phase of the development
plan firmed up. The main goal is the increase in the output of skilled and
technical workers to levels more in line with the pressing needs of the
country. In order to achieve this goal, CONALEP will have to improve the
student retention rates, adequately equip the 62 training centers now developed
or being developed, and recruit and prepare 4,100 additional instructors by
1985. The physical consolidation of the central program administration in a
single location in Mexico City is essential for the alleviation of the existing
problems of communication and coordination.
Bank Experience in the Sector
50.       The proposed project would be the first Bank operation in the sector.
However, education oriented components have been included in some of the
projects in other sectors. Specifically, the Tourism Development Project
(FY79) included a study on manpower training needs for the tourism sector; the
Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Loan (FY78) financed the construction
of four training centers; and the Second Urban and Regional Development
Project (FY81) included the construction and operation of a training center in
Villahermosa (State of Tabasco). Several other projects, mainly in the water
supply and sewerage and the agricultural sectors, included specialized
training for staff of implementing agencies. Experience in each case has
been favorable; the training components have encountered no problems in
implementation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
51.       A report entitled "Technical Training Project" (No. 3469-ME dated
June 30, 1981) is being distributed separately. Negotiations for the
proposed loan took place in Washington, D.C. on June 25, 1981. The Mexican
delegation included Mr. Arturo Ortiz of NAFINSA and Mr. Alberto Facha of
CONALEP.



- 15 -
Project Objectives
52.       The goals of the project are to: (a) improve the efficiency and
effectiveness of CONALEP; (b) increase the supply of intermediate-level
technical manpower by expanding CONALEP's training capacity; (c) improve the
quality of CONALEP's instruction; and (d) improve the quality of CONALEP's
plan to 1988. The project is self-contained but further expansion of the
CONALEP technical training program is anticipated.
Project Description
53.       The project would include three main components:
(a) Instructional and Administrative Support Complex: Construction
and equipping a center for CONALEP's administrative offices,
instructor training facility, training materials production center,
and an information and documentation center;
(b) Technical Training Centers: Construction and equipping of 37 new
training centers; expansion or remodelling and equipping of
52 centers, and equipping of 10 completed centers; and
(c) Planning: Preparation of CONALEP's 1984-1988 plan and a follow-on
development project.
Detailed Features
54.       Instructional and Administrative Support Complex.  The administrative
and supervisory directorates of CONALEP are currently located in five widely
dispersed and inadequate centers in Mexico City. Bringing the seven directorates
together with the general directorate in a central location would improve
communications, coordination and administrative efficiency. This complex would
permit an expansion and further development of instructor training, the
production of training materials, and central administrative services including
an information and documentation center. The project would finance the
construction and equipping of this complex, and the Government would finance
purchase of furniture.
55.       The proposed instructor training center would include offices,
classrooms, projection rooms, a small model industrial shop, business office,
and service facilities. This would improve the quality of the instructor
training program. The current instructor training staff is adequate in
quantity and quality for the operation of the proposed expanded program.
It includes, as necessary, part-time professional staff from other teacher
training institutions.
56.       The instructional materials production program, currently operating
in inadequate rented facilities, requires expanded facilities and more appro-
priate equipment. The proposed materials production center would include space
for offices; photographic activities; art and composition rooms; and audio-
recording, service and distribution facilities. The current technical and
support staff consists of six people. It would be increased to include suffi-
cient numbers of printers, technical illustrators, photographers, audiovisual
specialists and support personnel to handle the required annual volume of



- 16 -
materials. Based upon recruitment goals and total enrollments, its annual
production would exceed 100,000 pieces of promotional literature, 200,000 shop
job-sheets, 70,000 laboratory manuals and other items. Basic materials for
production would be prepared by qualified specialists. Distribution would
be through local training centers.
57.       The major objective of the information and documentation center
would be to provide an efficient system for the recording, analysis and
retrieval of relevant data on: labor market trends; student enrollment and
progression; training performance, job placement and follow-up; medium- and
long-term program planning; inventory control; and financial management. The
proposed center would include offices, conference rooms, planning rooms, a
reference library, programming rooms, a central computer room, and services.
A small business computer and peripheral equipment would be installed.
The center would be staffed by a center director, a computer systems analyst,
a programmer, a computer operator and support personnel.
58.       The annual work programs for the instructor training center, the
instructional materials production center, and the information and documenta-
tion center would be sent to the Bank for review and comment (Section 2.05(a)
of the draft Project Agreement).
59.       The proposed administrative services center would consolidate
physically the various directorates in a central location. In addition to
administrative offices, conference rooms, accounting rooms and services,
this center would also contain the main technical library and an auditorium.
60.       Technical Training Centers.  The project would enable CONALEP
to complete the first phase of its technical training program. It would
finance the equipment requirements for the 10 training centers now completed
and partially operational, the 52 centers currently in various stages of
construction, and the 37 new training centers to be operational in 1983-84.
When the centers are fully operational in 1985-86, enrollment and output by
major fields of study in the 99 centers would be as follows:
Enrollment         Annual Output
Major Field of Study            (students)          (graduates)
Agriculture                        3,600                1,050
Commerce                          15,200               4,450
Health                             6,800               1,980
Industry                          43,900              13,420
Total                             69,500              20,900



- 17 -
61.       Curricula for all the training centers are complete.  Course syllabi
for first and second-year programs are complete and those for the third year
are under development. When fully operational in 1985-86, the 99 training
centers would require a total of about 5,600 instructors, or about 4,100
additional ones over those currently employed. CONALEP is expanding and
upgrading its instructor training programs and recruitment procedures and no
serious difficulty is expected in this regard (para. 45).
62.       Trained manpower for the highly skilled and advanced machinist and
tool and die-making trades are in very short supply for the more technologically
advanced industries. The project would finance the equipment needs for a
special training center of this type, having a capacity of 500 adults in each
of two 24-week courses annually. Provision is also made for courses of shorter
lengths. Entrance would be limited to experienced adults who can demonstrate
a high level of skill on regular machine tools. An industrial advisory
committee would assist in the continuing adaptation of training exercises to
current manufacturing conditions. The instructors for this specialized
program would be recruited from industry, under cooperative arrangements, on
a part-time basis.
63.       Criteria for the Creation of New Centers.  CONALEP has developed
criteria concerning the eligibility requirements for future training institu-
tions to be developed under the project. New centers would be established on
the basis of economic need, feasibility and economic efficiency. These criteria
would serve to ensure timely and efficient achievement of program objectives
and provide for an equitable allocation of loan funds between and within
training institutions. The expansion of existing training centers and the
location of new training centers financed under the project would be in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank (Section 2.03 of the draft
Project Agreement).
Planning
64.       Under the project, CONALEP would prepare a plan for its operations
to 1988. The plan would include such factors as:
(a)  estimates of demand for skilled workers and technicians
by industry, occupation and geographical area;
(b)  an analysis of program policy recommendations such
as shorter training programs to respond quickly to
changing needs;
(c)  CONALEP's expansion plans, including enrollments, outputs,
and instructor requirements by training programs and
geographical distribution; and
(d)  facilities and capital investment requirements, and
recurrent-cost projections, including a timetable
to reduce the high recurrent unit costs of small centers.
The draft plan would be sent to the Bank for review and comment (Section 2.05(a)
of the draft Project Agreement). It is expected that the plan would form the
basis for CONALEP to prepare a follow-on development project, possibly for
Bank financing.



- 18 -
Project Cost and Financing
65.       Capital Costs.  Total project costs, net of taxes and duties for
which CONALEP is exempt, is estimated to be US$214.8 million, of which
US$104.4 million is in foreign exchange. The proposed loan would finance
about 42 percent of project cost, equivalent to 86 percent of the foreign
exchange cost. The Government would finance the balance of project cost.
To facilitate equipping of the centers in time for the training year beginning
September 1981, up to US$4.0 million of the Bank loan would be made available
as retroactive financing for equipment purchased after February 1981. CONALEP
also receives contributions from the productive sector; such contributions
have not been included in the total project cost because they are mostly
in-kind donations such as land, rent-free buildings and second-hand equipment.
To date, such contributions are estimated to total over US$64 million.
Project costs include about US$29 million of sunk costs, most of which are
works and equipment associated with the technical training centers that have
been completed or are under construction.
66.       Recurrent Costs.  CONALEP's recurrent budget, which almost exclu-
sively comes from the Ministry of Public Education, was about US$50 million
in 1981. This is equivalent to seven-tenths of one percent of the recurrent
budget of the Ministry of Public Education. CONALEP also receives some
private sector support. As a result of the project, CONALEP's recurrent
budget is expected to rise in real terms to around US$70 million per annum by
1985-86. This would be equivalent to about one percent of the recurrent budget
of the Ministry of Public Education. In view of the high priority of the
CONALEP program and the Government's strong commitment to expanding the supply
of technical manpower, it is expected that these expenditures would be met
without difficulty.
Procurement
67.       Civil works would total US$57 million, excluding contingencies.
Works would be scattered over one hundred sites in the 31 states and the
Federal District. Contracts for the construction of the 99 training centers
would not be large enough to attract foreign bidders. Therefore, contracts
for the centers would be awarded through local competitive bidding under the
Guarantor's normal procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank. Mexico's
construction industry is highly developed and capable of executing works at
costs competitive with international bidders. The contract for the Instruc-
tional and Administrative Support Complex (base cost estimate of about US$5
million) would be awarded through international competitive bidding.
68.       Equipment purchases under the project would total about US$84
million. Where feasible, contracts for equipment would be in packages of
at least US$300,000 and would be procured through international competitive
bidding. However, up to US$13 million of equipment would be procured in
packages of US$25,000-300,000 through regular Government procurement
procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank, and which generally require
local competitive bidding. Up to US$3 million of equipment in packages
smaller than US$25,000 would be procured through local shopping. Furniture
costs would be financed by the Government, which would apply its normal
procurement procedures.



- 19 -
Disbursements
69.       The loan is expected to be disbursed over a three year period.  To
facilitate administration, disbursements would be concentrated on a few com-
ponents of the project. The Bank would disburse: 100 percent of total expendi-
tures for the construction of the Instructional and Administrative Support
Complex; 100 percent of total costs for imported equipment, including cost
of installation where applicable; 100% of ex-factory costs for goods locally
produced, including cost of installation where applicable; and 85 percent of
expenditures for goods procured through local shopping. Retroactive finance
of US$4 million is envisaged (para. 65).
Project Impact
70.       The proposed project would provide considerable benefit by contri-
buting to the institutional development of CONALEP. The program would provide
training with a strong practical orientation, supported by equipment, teaching
materials and adequate facilities, and taught by experienced and well trained
staff. The project would also improve the agency's communication, coordination
and administrative efficiency, as well as its strategic planning capabilities.
71.       The project would help meet the large demand for trained technical
personnel by graduating annually 20,000 skilled workers and lower-level
technicians, 800 technical teachers, and upgrading highly specialized skills
of about 1,000 employed technicians. This would almost double the 1978 annual
output of 23,000 graduates (including teachers) for terminal technical training.
Risks
72.       The main risks are associated with recruiting adequate numbers
of qualified instructors and retaining students through the entire course
of training. These risks would be minimized by the high quality and practical
orientation of CONALEP's training, the monitoring of student progress, the
close ties of CONALEP to industry and business, the in-house capacity to
upgrade instructors' pedagogical skills, and the attractive salaries offered
to instructors. Overall, risks are judged to be acceptable. It should be
possible to recruit instructors as schools become operational and it is
expected that student retention would be greatly improved.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Nacional Financiera,
S.A., the draft Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Colegio Nacional de
Educacion Profesional Tecnica, and the Report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 20 -
74.       Special features of the draft Loan, Guarantee, and Project Agreements
are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III. 1
75.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 30, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 21 -                                                  ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                  Page  1  of  5
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE5AGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. EM.)                                                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
TOTAL            1972.5                                 MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     977.2               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
ONP PER CAPITA (US$)                  400.0        750.0    1640.0                1616.2                    2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      769.2       1141.0    1672.7                1324.1                    2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (TMOUSANDS) 36369.0       50313.0   65509.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 50.8          59.0      65.9                  64.Z                      53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       108.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         188.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        18.4         25.5      33.2                  34.3                      80.6
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      36.0         52.0      65.1                  94.5                     133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          45.6         46.5      45.3                  40.7                      30.1
15-64 YRS.                          51.0        50.0       51.2                  55.3                      61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.4          3.5       3.5                   4.0                       8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.1          3.2       2.9                   2.4                       1.5
URBAN                               4.9          4.8       4.2                   3.7                       3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      45.0         42.3      36.0                  31.4                      22.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      12.0          9.0       7.3                   8.4                       9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4          3.2       2.6                   2.3                       1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         25.1     842.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..             ..      40.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           97.0        100.0     101.0                 108.3                     119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   110.0       112.0      114.0                 107.6                     125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           65.0        66.0       66.0                  65.8                      92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        27.0        27.0       27.0                  34.0                      39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      13.0          8.8       5.7                   7.6                       3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    58.3          62.4      66.0                  64.1                      68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            78.0         74.0      60.0                  70.9                      25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              23.5         54.0      62.0                  65.7
URBAN                                           71.0      70.0                  79.7
RURAL                                ..         29.0      49.0                  43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..                  59.9
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  75.7
RURAL                                ..         13.0      14.0                  30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           1798.0       1480.6    1815.0                1728.2                     973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       1612.2    1398.0                1288.2                     896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             577.6        828.1     851.0                 471.2                     262.3
URBAN                                ..       1151.2     758.0                 558.0                     191.8
RURAL                                ..       1350.9    1077.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..                    ..                      18.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.4          5.7
URBAN                               5.7          5.7
RURAL                               5.2          5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.9          2.5
URBAN                               2.6          2.2
RURAL                               3.4          3.2        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..         58.9        ..
URBAN                                ..         80.7 .7
RURAL                                ..         27.8        ..



- 22 -                                                   ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                 Page  2  of  5
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)   a
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                80.0       104.0     116.0                 101.7                   105.9
MALE                 82.0       107.0     119.0                 103.0                   109.6
FEMALE               77.0       102.0     114.0                 101.5                   102.2
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 11.0        22.0      39.0                  35.3                    66.3
MALE                 14.0        27.0      42.0                  34.9                    73.2
FEMALE                8.0        17.0      36.0                  35.6                    59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 24.0         27.0        9.0                 30.1                    28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           44.0        46.0      41.0                  29.6                    26.8
SECONDARy                         13.0        14.0      17.0                  15.7                    23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       65.0        74.2       82.4                 80.0                    75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        14.0        24.5      42.4                  42.6                    83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        90.7       278.4     306.0                 215.0                   181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        17.9        59.5      88.7                  89.0                   131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 79.0          ..      66.6                  62.8                   123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 10.0         5.0       4.2                   3.2                     5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10990.9    14488.8   18965.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  15.2        17.4      19.3                  22.6                    32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             55.1        45.0      36.8                  35.0                    34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                19.5        23.0      25.7                  23.2                    28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               30.2        28.8      29.0                  31.8                    42.3
MALE                                51.1        47.4      46.5                  49.0                    56.5
FEMALE                               9.2        10.1      11.2                  14.6                    28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.6         1.7       1.7                   1.4                     0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.1/c      60.7      57.7.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.47;,      3.3       2.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.8Th       9.9       9.9
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    270.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     216.0                 187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    471.0                  513.9
RURAL                               ..          ..    471.0                  362.2                   385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..
RURAL                               ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTE S
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1963.
May, 1981



- 23 -                                                                                ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
001 -NIttONt OF SOCIaL INDICATORS
Notes:  AltSough t1he data ate deao  rm  orcsgeea1yjugd th   utetortts                              rlul.i  sol   loh  noted  htho  ohny coy to  he inter-
oottealt  ooeperhte  eosso o  th Iloo  of etandardiced dfl  ltlo   ond oocpc  use.d bydfiretrurte  to cotetlg  h  dote.  The dor.te  o, note-
t    -eo    sful1o 'decrthe order  of nogottudo, otditcottOeda, cod obrrelsoruosjrdiffor--r  hotet .                       u.r.
Theooroeguear I1) oh, a~    .... outry group of the outject  toor   n   2   ocuygop  tOonoo   ihrteoo  ooeoa   h   uoe   ru
ofl the suhjeoroountr   Sacoep2  t for 'Cone   Surplu  Oi1  opEters'.. - grou  chrP    MddeI s  Sooh   ft rh uo    hiddle -oa' t   ihoao  thecus ohf a...truogar.
1.0d i.0  (thoefn  sq.... h.)  .Ioftato  tr osotlhad-.ou_   uho.  ndocet-  oplat.   (otS
iotat- fru  urfoo  ores cret leto  lurdoreooof                - _eddi--cr                      or-ho,  co  ral)dted  by' dite   etaeotr  oehe  of  doptl  td
fororfa  potares, . nakther -ihhy  gudetef or to t_ue fotr;t9Ndea                        hou   _tore.t...    bo5tl   r  ttbtheta  ennecyatf
Rtef ia-00m(00   City pot  reptc noOsr                      ..a tu iloyathr, p_i_ee. oat         dia         l~lltt   r  dotitlidd.1"   cto.  hosItas too, hotud  health
1970, etA  1979 dccc.                                                                 eadtratcs197ediaoaoo,11b. bi c_ne  oldlf_  err._ btbo frtoIteo 'tsc
-r--   ad                                                  b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aioodpotdctmtd ocig_  o eedre  laotttte.d hroel shds
cfett   SilotliOttaIo-  ouc   onupit  frcenooteery(oo                    ietyrI te   rhthoyattooduoopoop(erothsof,
sndigonapetotoo,oaootgenodhdr-,   utearndgotornteer-ondurlhryirl5oro   oouolhopietnnded totad                             _tn fit
trite)  t  itoreo  f  oo  eqirleS  errepce  1)0  S70,no  179reters...etaio I              h        py ue  o  told idolyg uorrtetel,
date                                                                                   Adtactns  ot  oectal  od PTotl nnhorof-detatoo-toor dsthege
r-i-  -h-d ..~.tld  .Ok At--  (197-79 b-i,);  9free huyteedvteiy  h   nae   f  oe
1SPI.ASt OtS 1 Ial SuT9      Tt
Ted 7ycetu  iOt-Tee(toscod)    u-o Jly-l itd.t91,  od199                              OUIN
smangruntotc; 191, 190, et   _t909   r dte.                                             oh  hocehol  forututitiru  Poroce
total pepusie.b et.eA   tosottej.orettyendmoidtyrbty dehlog,  oncotrlyrnaitteetldootroecttotoao
lee,ad  oaedO   noteo   thttgat7.   ean    h  per-                                          on-nnohl dorltg                  __h LetttLtItlvnqurea
end.I. feeitr.    rtsA    n  rjrtnytry-oaee.hAdlinted  torttet  tat.too
ittonr  or -uatio - to astocroaypylt             hr  tc no grovel.j     citra-- -b   O Prita   shoo          - oi.ut  and fni-br-e   nl rurto oed fs-ut
thbbrhrt   in  qe  to . the  sth tt,od aloth   g  errur   o rnrtteotofallcgC:atthey_tos "oI                                           npe etgc  freplcl
the teploonenn loet of uinooteepodoottonetn,  ebe  ect  eaooto                 an   s  a on  frdfeen              .egh  of..... r  cduootn  foe ..
ofJ i. areeetee    itef  eooy    I   ttoarrooeioat   e                                        cluttee It  unoenaledrecr   totetsyate   0   a
sen  tae.,ml"'    Ptt                                               . biAtedurotoorqice Eslou   ao   fepne  pcayisrotn
Teareteioner  eouooto  iseacbed- Te yer eel,sco tooep  opuetin  pevino gonnt.  nrateal, o  rer hr ccioeg isteotint  ee  upi
sice bes beso teethed.                                                      cerelty of 17 to 17 years ofP aen;Cr   t  nonebnet   oree  orAl     neal
Peoutatien Oceetty                                                    snoludnd.           t..1 d.ll.,.
on bly; 1N -5 197  end      tht9TN-.    d   . done         autl-so_bn nnSo- en                                         fon. ed s         G..d..  Ttarl. stuee  stdefsd i
Peoulctee  en inuotoc Onrusot( Yh tAnn  r0-1  perdinofogae(1-pls                                    n                   ..o.deptee t devidhd bnahrof aiethestit the
taton;190,  N7l  sd 179  at.                                                         Aslnlieesy rte(neuni)I tha,eeYduls bhl  orpeedad ace
ysoe prootatinos fee 1950-60, 1960-70-.d..ti-....  end                                                                                   _y 1970-19.r .. 
pepihsin,   90  17,ad17   fdana.                                                                      ...nan  nebtol-ec
p  Iyohn;196, I   -190an 11979.t  dat.         h_siecenogceo    poi  pco thosn  offpos-ntt;nolunaan
hen noonl reyrourrive  eriod I  a he epeotenos proene aec-oerifir  nn-      netsnec to  ffect;ronaSfinrercuh-eers ma  con beroapeCat-,sinc
Yulreyotesi....lY P   fveP ee   roc1          eir   o190   90,ed199                            rs  qonoi eoiahad lite-osi--nt.
Psatlv Pootcna -Ar ierto i. raoIt-hdc-oThdsY  -h.  ..no  . etchr o   ieen               OOtrte (a  theucad nooeri-n  -- Pt  peeresco e-oatt
PeeivPkoouo-OMidy..  PaPrIctip olaattoadunuko-r-ttaronero                                       toonuctl etshretnetr    ftees
ol   arid  oe  Sn ' con  Igegocy                                                       ciatonofhdetygtero.tt..anosaposf,V.fieaseened_a
81-1-r.  I..d      f-r  g.irut ... I l.ld         ~          uitrod-ttuehderta1pisriy    r netodh-  geo9-a  otneh  Irt. isocsdepnd
inS  lYNo  1960too                                                                             to0-d178dt  be  'dol"t   tapasa   ec   otlncaeb
Ite   frod truoroyntcr   Chi9-ldltO) (-1  Indsu) ofpa   iptetL UteAtohel  tnndnr  nor: Capia  re  Tur-t osdt                                  t  henube  o
it 00 titerdso peso beofe.  Cosordittec cover poteary -gkode (e.g  eugean     and shil..nite
ceeenldtrd).   O 6fyee   produitdio..ofd,each-rountoiydtoybased on                 1.0000 fstdtt
tatiroel19otrean0 prdre  po197g9           ;lt-I  17,ed17   ao                               od   ao   rt   tonos)-foosolyeto  penots.catud
Perl teottI su-h o   erte   pri   frecenns    Cosute  fonamdfre   and  nne 1opd et psolodi_g hereceives,r cednt.-cn.
pe   o.Aatbasupisouta   rosu   odruo   goc-cis  aosdottoon.-e  ithSP, 107.en t  LitOtrt dens.                                           l,t.-           d-i.
metes. fnn   .. tsiot: b  tObedo  pyilota7oes o0ooa  st-fibogodeoeng197ttl0oo  fos  19,190an999  c
ocoP31r end .  E. helt  .on .. ard  c-totconl topathore- body ft-ho y age..dsetn   oC.reon"t)  taboo.. force i stIng   rootoonon  acncfoeut
P.sehol  level; 1961-6-. 1970,  tand 197.dccc                                                1970 en  1979 dare.             ....               . .-,h
oahuul o     sro aendy.d csupy  ffodScdfin   n  bve    n-criiy  ae  esrepte   s  oel   ae,sd  ent   ehefooe
e-Pllsnreh of60 -1r7oc  ftt prti   e   a  eodd20 g79ee0e siset and                           1960  190   n  17   eo   Teeaehoe   nIO'   arrpaans
l-t rdtre;t6-T,17   n   97dt.t   She d                                                         oto  bOon fro__fm.                         lt1.1
teta  dae delve  for  tie oae  - 199 dit97  cod 1970 970 doa -dhoshln
atF   tt;  96,190  n  1979!,.   dAl" ta   ..odI shiltldh  Sneyntd                                                                     Yotfh- -ocdeal  o btr.  .l
Itf -t Oetaito tan   o   hued      aaldob   fifosudr00pe                               tentou_ed dbsolun  Pnner  to..  -intl  00  co0   frif)   ubane    ie
rf age pertheooand   oc biotbe                                                       Absolute proe-y Inoosa tonr  inthttoos   evl  aonodo  e.r   stoia
hen ofi. Iapl  (io      _ u  San  end pua)enheeohlers   i-aeafodbe
esnerou Tr - lcoceretd  ufc   aearoiSttdSc ucaotoe                                          eetdtltn            Ponadr Poros  Leve  (ISOoa  ria -         ot.. her soret -
- ,.er bce pnottated Sonehotee, spn~~Inge  of                        t.itopale)lae  os.lanifnte p.r poor. J.eo . letter-nbdofnreepesg
rlteioeeerio                                ...clItud P.dIoacohonanaspuhl
P"'u't"' 'f   f--d                       r Tit.  Oacoalaoerfbtottp.ocaleelsdetodfeebras
hoaea   oreaOeoa  (pocn     6o poaa      7o-ttl  crOo, end eLae..lh- -d
euseeofpepl  (nos,  obn,en proyl  senveup   d by' econet  d      feaso  eDfsiO   .    i                                                               -r
penoenoseec~~~~~~~~ oft. oteeor  ppltoe  uontdore   a   nld
tSaitqclflt    7rono ed totrtor       a   orioneibp lts:
Pruato..-~r-Pooelo   itddb  csa  o   rYtoo
orto                 0    ...ol. cii-g  --   no.or...i odi-b.ss.srrlo                                                                  . ttr bcr          .






- 24 -
Tags 4 of 5
MEXICO - 0205N81  DOVOLORSENT DATA 854E0T
Arroal                        Osnls~~~~~~~~~~EiotOS  F   -isolo                        G-s,h MtArs                                 A. 7. of CoY
1970          1975          19 77         198            979          1980                   ----- 118-5        1970-75        195801         980-89 1/       1970        18789        98
NATIONAL. ACCOUNSOT                                          Consan  1972  Pri-e. U5$ Nilli.ons,                                                                                                      .2103                      973         9
Iron  Somnln  Frod-r                          36,970.4      40,5095        50,960.4      54,434.08    18,76.6        63,214.8      1 7653.4      93:,83.            1.65,87103                                               9.302
GainSfr-  Iesa  of Trade                       - 114.1          3055.         316.4         544.0       1650 .1       4,173.5       754.1        10,253.0           ----0.27                                                               98
Grs   ooslInma36,856.3                                      48,864.6       51,2814.0     54,980        60,436.5      67,388.3      8i 1,19.     104,103             5.8            6.6           8.9            100.0       100.0        108.0
Inporin llnolodlng  SF05           ~~~~~~~3,7514.4  5,3.         ,0.2         6453          8544.         :11,1.3     16,518.0      20,575.3'          0.2           15.1           12.5            10.~2       14.1         20.7
E.p,e..  iOporsr-p-itY3                        3,06.6        4,109.2        4,751.7       6,117.1       7,62.        18,102        15,9.         19,7957            6.4           20.7          12.3              8.2        12.6         19.0
R.ssnr. -  Gp                                     737 .8      1,726.4          3026         558.2         920.        1.114.1       1,418.1"7  1-  1,7759.6        18.4          -0.3            17.4             2.0          1.5         17
CoOsOOpOlon                       30,420~~~~~~~~~~~~. .4  40064.  41,9167   4,5.           40,532.:2     53,41 2.7     671,720.3     82,015.2           5.7            6.0           9.0             82.6        80.3        78.8
Tnst,ss-                                       7:188.7       10,526.7       9,390.6      12,879.9      12,825.3      15,0789.7     10,867.4      23,852.7           8.0            7.8           9.3             19.0        21.2        22.9
cross bossnoln savIngs            ~~~~~~       ~~~6,30.9  8,800.2  5,5168.5  10,21.        11,904.5     13,97.6        17,449.:3     22,073.1          6.5             9.8           8.0             17.4        19.7        21:2
Cms   aloalSrI      g                          5,895.3       7,7001.7      8,251         9236.4       10,230.7      12,'167.2     15,8452       20,040.9           5.1            94            9.7             16.7         16.         19.5
DE2 00NGOODS 4020 5FS                                        C-oat  rIms,. (10$ Million                                                                                                                                    As  of Tt 1
WOR0850  TOTAL                                    3,16.9         83.           7,845.1      1L,560.9         S 29 $Z h  26&732.2      44,506.A      71,176.9          20.4           28.2           21.0           100.0       100.8        180.8
Food  17  ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      546        49.             7.1          502           83.          ,004         1275.4        2,0287            .21.7                       14.9              2.2         5,9         2.8
Estrolsos and Pmodorss      51.0        269.1          107.5         1~~~~   ~ ~~~~~~         ~    ~~~~~     ~~703.3  268.  308.4  366 .3  44 8.  50.6      71            7.7              1.8         1.6         8.8
Orh- ornods                                     2, 242. 6    5,845.6        5,326.2l      7,580.       11,717.2      18,503        3,6.           8898             20.32.2068,                                               8.4         8.6
NnnF-n-o  s-rln..                                1,084.7     2,022.9        1,934.3       3,240.0       4,485.2       6,963.9      12, 202.7     19,859 .6         13.7           28.0           22.             3'1.2       26.2        2'7.9
1070020. TOTAL                                      2 745.74     6,001.7       7,795.1      10_92'-1.5    125,203..4    241952.6      02A&8.,9      65.305,9          17.2           31.7          28.8            100.0       500.8       150.8
S innt:d AgoilclI .. O  Goods                       2T.        86$T4T8      2,459.1      T$ 7 .7        2,85.5        5.351,6      .5023.         4,09.56                         13.7           IT5             2.6         15.          6.
Tomoso  od Frod-os                                  38.4       460.1        ,029.4        1,793.5       3,7091.3     10,877.8      29,17.9       38,805           64.:3           87.9          26.6              1.4        26.9        591.5
Sol.-ld Mi--srls                                   244.3       423.4          44-4.9        548.0         952.2       1,095.2       1,343.6       1,44.0           15.6           23.2          11089                         6.3         2.8
Tsoooarrorss                         ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~~~~443.9  1,66 9.3  1,611.2  2,143.6  2,372.6      2,725.9       3,514.1       3,259.9          19,2           22.51.                         16.7        15.           8.1
odhr Goods                                                      236.5          29.9           -            73.6           .-                          -             -              -             -                ---
sN-F--oo  S-rli...                               1,387.7     3,677.2        3,196.0       4,461.0       5,780.5       7,238.8       9,806.3      15,306.1          17.2           19.0          18.7             50.9        58.0        23.4
5TR400 25122205                                                dAor-o  72=100                                                                  3
EnPoro Prine Sodan                                 S881        162.0          17 5.8        196,0         234.5         3273.9        536,32'       684.4         13.8            17.4          1.
1.sporl Irlos Soden                   ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~91.  146.0   164.0         170,5         1399.4        228.0         289.4         329.8         15.2             9.1           7.8
Ts,o  ofTrds988                                               169.5          107.1         109.6        0127.6         184.9         19,9.5        207.4          2.5             3.54.
04LUE 40080 BY 9OCT80                                            Co-nt-t 1972 frlnee, oS$ Million                                                                                                                           A.    nof Tsotal
PrOs-or                                         4,136.0      4,403.9       4,769.8        4,946.8       4,922.0       5,020.4       5,326.1       5,859.           1.8             2.5           3.0             11.62        8.          6.2
... odory                                     12,408.0    16,951.9       10,236.63    20,026.2        21,963,9     24,180.3       25,234.0      38,905            6,4             7.35         20.0            33.          37,4        41.
TsrnlOry                     20,426.4    27,073.9      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~             ~~27,962.6  29461.9  31,960.7  34,034.1  39,095,3  49,0.0     984.8                        7.              552          4,15.
TTosa11l 007D                                   36,970.4    40,506.5      50,968,4       5944,434.0    50,786,6      63:,214.9     73,625, 4     953, 8135.5        5.63            5.6.         8.2            100.0       100.0       180.0
CON   111TED7015  9OCT80 7550502015.                                                                                                                                                                                      A. 7 of  CDP
C~_orro  RO lpraC                               5.450,4      9,126,6       10,274.9      12,051.9      13,460.3      1,20.7        20,887,7      27,314.3         18.9            117           10,9             148         22.5        26.2
Corat-     srnltrS3,918,4                                    0,646.3        8, 890.7     10,102.5      10,831,5      12,483.5      14,902.9      19,571.9         12.2             7.5           9.5             18.6        17.8        18.8
7.blll  5800                                     1,52.8        48.          0,39 4.2      1,068.2       2,833.0       3,337.6       3,984.7       7,742.6        .20.7            48.2          15.4              422         4.7         7,4
I                        Invstso                 .184        4,725.4       4,292.1       5,212,6        6,022.4      8,276,9      10,534.1       12,885.9         16'.5           12.4,          8.9              6.0        11.3        12.4
IlftnO  (osr                                      666.4      4,243.1       2,907.9        3,343.3       3,986.6      4,919,2        4,549.3       5,143.4         44,.8            2.9           2.5              1.8         8.6         4.9
A0072            ROS9PB1C5ECTR09707                                                                                                                                                                                       do 51 of Total
Oosrgy                                      9~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~,369.1  6,474,1  7,789 1.4,3        ta                                                          8633,3
TAopr   od Co.asnola515n                            1,731,1        133.1,37 11,433.2                          naI                                                        .8.4                                        1
Opoolsi  wolfara                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~4,220.9  4,602.0  4,771.0     9,38.3         o.5.:                                                       805.
0=4000mM                                   ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~1,640.0  1,455.6  1,392.4  1,020.9 5                                                                2.8                                        5.8
&gr1oo-1t-  and  nRa-l 05500st1,977.1                                    1,417.5       1,562.7       1474,3         0...7.147
Gssr -1 Adinnlora--a   -sd Osf...                         5,290.0        5,160.6       5,52.         9,384,2        9..2.
Cs.,rn                                                    1,531. 7       1,436.9       1,7 85.2      1,644,         na,                                                         1.8                                        5.2
Tonrtss                                                      63.2           73.5          53.29         60.0        00                                                         -1,0                                        0,2
Total                                                    19 _43-9      22.323,7      24,39.5        3,058           00                                                         1.4                                       10,
009206001 PRICES0
Gos-a-l Orio- I,tda   1972- 100                 96.4        162 .0         261.4         306.5         365,1         464.2
Eto440go R.at.                                   1,   12.5        5         22,6          22,0          22.0          22,9
Psoiad Av--sn
50102T70 05022450S                                                                                                                                                   1971-75      1975808      1980-85
2200                                                 2.60         3,60          6.94          2.70          2.50"         2.90          3.21          3,01         3,98            3.86          3,06
Import Tlostlolty                                    2.0 60         0O         -4.63          5.20          4.00          4.90          2.00          1.00         1 .64           2.80          1.50
Mrginal Soniogs Ratio                                2.61         0.73          0.19          0,20          0,20          0.28          0.:1,3         0.20         0.16           0.24          0.20
VaIns Addsd  -e  W-rs  (92Frns
To 01111000   At 7. of 50000         19-60-1970                                                      2o   ntg
I.4000 70020 400 DATtOT PEP, W08K10               196    190      960      1970O      Cr-on  Rots                         19660          97    1970                  190            rassh Rate
AgoOinllt-                                     5,4    5.1   90.5       39.2             -00686                                      8110            34.7          '33.0             4.4
industry                                       2.1    3.0   19.6       23136                                         2.468,       4,136.0  .       104             4555.3
Os--no                                         3,2    4.9   29.9       37.7              4.4                         3,222.0      4,060.7          183.6         143.0O             2.3
Tonal                                         10.7   13.6  100.0    100.0                3.                          1,755.9      2,8093.9         100.0          105,0             5.0
it   A--rgs growh rats oalnna-d by laa..o. ss
2/ Thin seriso doas not raflsno a0isg ohangs..              h Ins   ...ss Olnalio   ffo.ssona,Oollo.,  ntI7I "oli', shses  h.,r ths.s itP-rta                     ...t.ssd-rbly higher
3/   ofl.-o  lo-rs..li0  shot   a0 oil sonrs  o thetrO   snbo    srSo   olsrino   rn   Oo
Apeil 20, 1981






- 25 -
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT                                                    ANNEX I
(1US$ million at current prices)                                                          Page 3 of S
Preliminary
Actual                       Estimates             Projections
1970          1975           1977           1978           1979            1980           1982            1985
SUMMARY BATANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (including NFS)                              2,745.4       6,081.7        7,795.1       10,921.5        15,203.4       24,192.6       40,685.9        65,305.9
Imports (including NFS)                              3,416.9       8,636.7        7,845.1       11,561.0        17,129.7       26,732.8       44,506.8        71,176.9
A Resnorce Bal.n.e                                   - 671.5      -2,555.1          -50.0          -639.5      - 1,926,3       -2,540.3        -3,820.9       -5,871.0
Interest  net 1/                                     - 307.0      -1,266.5       -1,811.5       -2,292.2       - 3,199.2       -4,128.2       -4,990.2        -7,070.3
Direct Investment Income                             - 267.5       - 657.5         -401.4          -477.4         -587.0         -587.0          -587.0         -587.0
workers' Remittances                                   122.7         174.6           251.0          277.0          320.0          352.0           425.9          566.9
Current Transfers, net                                  55.3         123.4           168.5          197.9          218.0          239.8           290.2          386.2
Current Account Balance                             -1,068.0      -4,181.1       -1,843.4       -2,934.2        -5,174.5       -6,663.6        -8,682.0      -12,575.2
Private Direct Investment                              322.8         748.8          555.9           530.0          666.5          738.4           928.3        1,380.7
Public Med. and Long Tern Loans, net                   258.6       3,565.8        4,394.8        4,731.3         3,749.7        5,710.9        7,065.2         9,813.7
Disbursements                                       821.3       4,418.6        6,727.9        9,147.0        11,576.6        9,578.6       13,053.1        22,290.1
Repayments                                         -562.7        -852.8       -2,333.1       -4,415.7        -7,826.8       -3,867.7       -5,987.9       -12,476.4
other Capital                                          588.7          31.7       -2,603.1       -1,893.0         1,177.2        1,183.6        1,565.3           380.9
Change in Reserves (-- increese)                      -102.1        -165.2         -504.2          -434.1         -418.9         -969.3          -876.8         -999.8
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
PUBLIC MED. AND L. T. LOANS
IBRD                                                   146.8         310.0          162.0           494.5          527.0          747.0
IDA                                                     -             -              -               -              -              -
Other Multilateral                                     112.4         121.8          122.0           152.2-         268.4          336.0
Coveruments                                             78.8         265.2          223.3           407.8           21.2          250.0
Suppliers                                               69.7         158.6          105.3           133.4            2.0          300.0
banks and Financial Institutions                       443.5       3,360.7        8,250.5        8,817.8        12,240.3        4,437.8
DEBT AND DEBT SERViCE
Public Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                3,238.0      11,541.7       20,420.7       25,152.0        28,901.7       34,612.7       EXTERNAL DEBT
(end of period)
Interest on Public Debt                                218.0         850.4        1,327.2        1,822.8         2,901.2        3,589.4                        outstanding and Disbursed
Repayment on Public Debt                               475.6         762.6        2,333.1         4,415.7        7,826.8        3,867.7                              on Dec. 31. 1980
Public Debt Service (net)                              693.6       1,612.9        3,660.3        6,238.6        10,728.0        7,457.1
Burden on Erport Earnings 2/ (7.)                                                                                                                                   $Millions   Percent
a.  Public Debt Service                               24.2          25.8           45.5            55.7           69.1           30.4       Public M & L.T.
b.  Poblic Debt Service and Direct                    33.5          36.3           50.5            60.0           72.9           32.8             Loans
Investment Income
IBRD                   1,967.3        5.7
Average Terms of Public Debt                                                                                                                  Other Off.Sources    1,893.9            5.5
a.  Interest as % of prior year's                     7.4          10.2            8.3             8.9           11.5           12.4       Other private          30,751.5       88.8
D.O. and D.                                                                                                                            Sources
b.  Amortieatios as 7a of priar                      16.3           9.2           14.6            21.6           31.1           13.4
year's  D.O. and D.                                                                                                                  Total                 34j612.7       100.0
IBRD Exposure
a,  IBRD D.O. and D. as % of                         18.0           9-7            6.7             5.9            6.0            5.7
Public D.o. and D.
b.  IBRD Debt Service as 1 of                         7.7           7.2            4.2             2.9            2.1            3.2
Public Debt Service
-   ot applicable or available
1/ Includes interest on short-term private and publie debt                                                                                                 February 27, 1981
2/ Includes weilces rtmitteoces






- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO.
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of May 31, 1981)
Loan                                                      Amount less      Undis-
No.    Year          Borrower             Purpose        Cancellations    bursed
38 loans fully disbursed                       1,870.4
909      1973  NAFINSA                   Water Supply            79.5        8.4
968      1974  NAFINSA                   Roads                   90.0        2.9
970      1974  NAFINSA                    Irrigation             47.0       13.8
1022      1974  NAFINSA                   Airports                25.0        3.0
1053-5    1974  NAFINSA                    Integrated Rural
Development          38.0       20.3
1111      1975  NAFINSA                    Irrigation             50.0       30.2
1112      1975  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA       Industry               50.0        4.2
1186      1975  BANOBRAS                  Water Supply            40.0       17.8
1232      1976  Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico and NAFINSA    Railways               100.0         4.7
1420-5    1977  NAFINSA                   Tourism                 42.0       18.5
1462-5    1977  NAFINSA                    Integrated Rural
Development         120.0       51.9
1524-5    1978  NAFINSA                   Tourism                 50.0        4.3
1552      1978  NAFINSA                    Industry               47.0        9.9
1553-5    1978  NAFINSA                   Agriculture             56.0       44.0
1554      1978  BANOBRAS                  Urban Development       16.5       12.3
1560      1978  NAFINSA                    Industry              100.0       18.9
1569-5    1978  NAFINSA                   Agricultural Credit  200.0          4.3
969-1    1979  NAFINSA                    Irrigation             25.0        5.1
1643      1979  NAFINSA                    Small-scale Agri.      60.0       57.4
1671      1979  BANOBRAS                  Highways               120.0      106.5
1686      1979  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA       Industry               80.0       45.7
1706-5    1979  NAFINSA                    Irrigation             92.0       88.6
1712      1979  NAFINSA                    Industry              175.0      131.2
1820      1980  NAFINSA                   Small and Medium
Scale Mining        40.0        40.0
1858      1980  NAFINSA                    Irrigation            160.0      160.0
1881      1980  NAFINSA                    Small and Medium
Scale Industry      100.0       87.5
1891-5    1980  NAFINSA                   Agricultural Credit  325.0        325.0
1908      1981  NAFINSA 1/                 Irrigation             23.0       23.0
1913      1981  BANOBRAS 1/               Water Supply           125.0      125.0
1929      1981  BANOBRAS 1/               Railways               150.0      150.0
1945      1981  NAFINSA 17                Rainfed Agri.          280.0      280.0
1964      1981  BANPESCAl1/               Port Development        14.0       14.0
1990      1981  BANOBRAS T/               Urban Development II 164.0        164.0
TOTAL                                           4,954.4 2/
Of which has been repaid to the Bank              719.2
Total now outstanding                           4,235.2
Amount sold                    92.3
of which has been repaid       92.2                 0.1
Total now held by Bank 2/                       4,235.1
Total undisbursed                                           2,072.4
1/   Not yet effective.
T/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of May 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                                                  US$ Million
Year           Obligor                     Type of Business       Loan   Equity  Total
1958/59  Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/                Industrial Equipment    0.8        --      0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. 1/    A.C. Engine Overhaul    0.5            --      0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. 1/              Twist Drills              0.3      --      0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora
66/68    Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.                Steel                     2.3    21.4   23.7
1963     Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A. 1/                Steel                     0.9      0.1    1.0
1963     Quimica del Rey, S.A. 1/          Sodium Sulphate           0.7      --      0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hierro, S.A.1/  Construction Equipment  --             2.0    2.0
1970     Minera del Norte, S.A, 1/         Iron Ore Mining           1.5      --      1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A.           Textiles                 12.0      --    12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.V.1/   Pulp and Paper                2/       2/      2/
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.            Cement                   15.9      --    15.9
1974/81  Cancun Aristos Hotel              Tourism                   1.0      0.3    1.3
1975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                     Steel                    12.0      3.2   15.2
1978/81  Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.           Pulp and Paper            9.0      3.5   12.5
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals               19.0      --    19.0
1979     Cementos Tolteca, S.A. 3/         Cement                  100.0      --   100.0
1979/81  Hotel Camino Real
Ixtapa, S.A.                  Tourism                    --       3.1    3.1
1979     Conductores Monterrey,            Electrical Wire
S.A. 3/                          and Cable            18.0      --    18.0
1980      Industrias Resistol, S.A. 3/  Particleboard               25.0      --    25.0
1980     Vidrio Plano de Mexico S.A.3/ Flat Glass                  114.9      --   114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. 3/               Mining                   110.0      --   110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro S.A. 3/  Pulp and Paper               59.5      --    59.5
1981     Corporacion Agroindustrial,
S.A.                          Agri-Business             11.3      3.0   14.3
Total Gross Commitments                                  514.6    36.6  551.2
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
and Sales                                              379.1    22.1  401.2
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                        135.5    14.5  150.0
Total undisbursed (including participants)               150.2      3.0  153.2
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
2/   US$25,000.
3/   Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION: PROGRESS AND PROBLEMS 1/
Ln. No. 909    Mexico City Water Supply Project:  $90 Million Loan of
June 18, 1973; Subsequently reduced to US$79.5 million;
Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1974. Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Overall, the majority of the project works as originally
defined have been completed and the physical targets of the
project have been achieved. In December 1979, the Executive
Directors agreed to amend the Project Description to include
new works which would serve the same objective of increasing
bulk water supply to the Mexico City metropolitan area and
utilize a forecast loan surplus (R79-307). However, the
authorities reconsidered the need for some of the works
included in the new Project Description and requested that
$10.5 million of the loan be cancelled. This cancellation was
made as of March 6, 1981. It is expected that the remainder
of the loan will be fully utilized before the closing date.
Ln. No. 968    Seventh Highway Project:  $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Substantial initial delays have been encountered in project
works because of the shortage of budgetary allocations.
Substantial cost increases caused by price escalation were also
encountered. Taking this into account, a reduction in the scope
of the project was made in August 1977, from 16 roads (1,975
km) to ten roads and part of an eleventh road (1,216 km) which,
because of cost increases, have the same total cost as the
original project. The roads remaining in the project continue
to be well justified as benefits have kept pace with costs.
Completion is now expected in mid-1981, or about three years
behind schedule.
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  $47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project authorities have rephased construction; a substantial
reduction in project scope was approved by the Executive
Directors (R79-51 of March 13, 1979). Progress is now
satisfactory.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:  $25 Million Loan of
May 28, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Although behind schedule and still moving slowly, this project
is proceeding satisfactorily. Project components that have
been completed are achieving higher rates of utilization than
envisaged at time of appraisal because of greatly increased air
traffic in Mexico. Three of the six project airports are
complete. One more will be complete by the end of this year.
The last two will be finished next year.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  $50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Subsequently reduced to US$38 million;
Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1975. Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Project implementation is improving after delays due to
management difficulties and inadequate budget support.
Reprogramming of the project is underway to adjust for
these delays, and the project scope is likely to be reduced;
the Executive Directors will be asked to approve a new
project description shortly. At the borrower's request
US$12 million of the loan were cancelled on March 5, 1981.
An extension of the closing date is under consideration.
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: $150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; Subsequently
reduced to $50 Million; Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
In view of the project's size, complexity and high cost, the
Government and the Bank agreed to phase project development
over a longer period of time and substantially reduce the scope
of the project to be financed under the Bank loan (R77-305 of
December 13, 1977 and R79-56 of March 19, 1979). Progress on
most components of the revised project is satisfactory. However,
some difficulties have been encountered in the execution of
the land levelling component due to climatic problems and
procurement practices.
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer Project:  $50 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The Bajio Urea Plant is in operation but construction of the
Pajaritos Urea Plant has been delayed mainly because of material
shortages and difficulties with contractors. Construction is
now expected to be completed by the closing date, and no major
problems are expected. The estimated cost is about 35 percent
above the original budget, mainly due to increases in equipment
and civil works costs. However, the project is still considered
to be economically justified.



30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
Ln. No. 1186   Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  $40 million
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26, 1976.
Closing Date: January 14, 1982.
Subloan agreements have been signed with all cities included
in the project, fully commiting the loan. Works are progressing
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1232   Third Railway Project:  $100 Million Loan of April 30, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: June 16, 1976. Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The project had a slow start, traffic growth in 1976 was
less than anticipated, and funding in 1976-77 (the stabiliza-
tion period) was inadequate. Works are now being executed
according to a revised investment plan which has been agreed
upon with the Bank. Due to initial delays the project is
expected to be completed by mid-1981, about two-and-a-half
years behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1420   Baja California Tourism Project:  $42 Million Loan of
July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 28, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Construction of infrastructure at both project sites has begun.
The first 250-room hotel at Loreto was completed in August
1980. Project implementation is behind schedule due to short-
ages of building materials in the area. The marketing studies
of domestic as well as North American tourism and the economic
study of tourism have been completed. Overall, progress is
satisfactory, but difficulties in internal coordination
have caused disbursements to lag behind schedule. Although
bottlenecks are being eliminated, the closing date was recently
extended by one year to allow project completion.
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER [I:  $120 million
Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1977;
Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
The project is proceding satisfactorily; major efforts to
decentralize project planning and execution have been made.
The result is increased beneficiary participation and
better coordination between executing agencies at the field
level. However, decentralization, reprogramming of micro-
.region investment plans, and several changes in management
have resulted in delay in project execution; the closing
date will have to be extended.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Ln. No. 1524   Tourism Development Project:  $50 million Loan of March 21, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Progress of commitments is satisfactory and disbursements should
be completed before the closing date.
Ln. No. 1552   Small- and Medium-Scale Industrial Development Project;
US$47 million Loan of May 4, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
January 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
After some initial delays, the integrated program to assist
industrial enterprises is making rapid progress. Forty-eight
extension agents have now received full training and have been
assigned to 14 regional offices. Over 80 percent of the loan
has been committed.
Ln. No. 1553   Tropical Agricultural Development Project:  US$56 Million Loan
of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Five of the six pilot projects have been approved by the
Bank; the sixth is expected to be submitted shortly.  Project
authorities are making excellent progress in the agricultural
development program of each pilot project. The applied
research programs are proceeding on schedule.
Ln. No. 1554   Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project:  US$16.5
Million Loan of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The shelter-related component and the training centers are
progressing satisfactorily, but delays still remain in the
implementation of the productive credits, industrial premises
and river control components and the studies. Steps to speed
implementation in these areas have been recently discussed with
the Government. The possibility of reallocating funds to the
shelter-related components is being contemplated. Inadequacies
detected in the accounting procedures of FIDELAC for the
construction materials credit program have now been resolved.
Ln. No. 1560   FONEI III:  US$100 Million Loan of September 27, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Demand for industrial investment financing continues to be
strong. Over 97 percent of the loan has been committed.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Ln. No. 1569   Sixth Agricultural Credit:  US$200 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Implementation is proceeding rapidly. The loan is expected
to be fully disbursed one year ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 969-1  Rio Panuco Irrigation Project;  $25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979.
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Major project civil works are on schedule and expected to be
completed by the closing date. Progress in agricultural devel-
opment has been slower than infrastructure construction.
The technical assistance program is being strengthened and
will emphasize better water utilization and intensive
agriculture.
Ln. No. 1643   Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project:  US$60 Million
Loan of February 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Most livestock and irrigation subprojects to be included in
the Project have been approved by the Bank, and the Government
is accelerating preparation and presentation of the balance of
the program.
Ln. No. 1671   Highway Sector Project:  US$120 Million Loan of August 23,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Commitments are ahead of schedule but disbursements are behind
schedule because of budget cuts in 1979 and because of delays
in submitting reimbursement applications to the Bank. The
authorities have agreed to increase budget allocations and
speed up disbursement requests.
Ln. No. 1686   Second Fertilizer Project - Lazaro Cardenas:  US$80 Million
Loan of May 18, 1979; Effectiveness Date: September 21, 1979;
Closing Date: October 31, 1982.
Orders for most of the equipment have been placed and about
30 percent of the construction work is committed with about
22 percent completed. The project is now about 17 months
behind schedule and runs the risk of further delays unless
implementation arrangements are improved. FERTIMEX's manage-
ment is considering steps to improve implementation.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8,of 9
Ln. No. 1706   Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  US$92 Million Loan
of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1979;
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
Plans and bidding documents for the Sinaloa component are well
underway. Despite initial delays, the Fuerte program is
now gaining momentum.
Ln. No. 1712   FONEI IV:  US$175 Million Loan of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness
Date:  October 5, 1979; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984.
Demand for industrial financing continues to be strong;
US$125.4 million of the loan have been committed to subprojects
to date, and additional subprojects requiring US$31.6 million
are being considered.
Ln. No. 1820   Small and Medium Scale Mining Development Project:  US$40
Million Loan of August 18, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 4, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Project execution is being initiated.
Ln. No. 1858   Apatzingan Irrigation Project; US$160 Million Loan of
September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 19, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Contracting for the main civil works has been initiated and a
strengthened technical assistance program is underway.
Ln. No. 1881   Second Small and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project;
US$100 Million Loan of September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
December 22, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
About 14 percent of the loan has been committed (see previous
comment on Ln. 1552).
Ln. No. 1891   Seventh Agricultural Credit Project:  US$325 Million
Loan of August 15, 1980; Effectiveness Date: November 17, 1980:
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
No major problems in implementation are foreseen. Disbursements
are behind schedule because of difficulties in completing required
documentation and delays in submitting reimbursement applications
to the Bank.
Ln. No. 1908   Ocoroni Irrigation Project:  US$23 Million Loan of March 2, 1981;
Effectiveness Date:                 ; Closing Date:  June 30, 1986.
The loan is not yet effective.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Ln. No. 1913   Second Medium-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:
US$125 Million Loan of January 23, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
June 23, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Project implementation is on schedule. The loan is 74 percent
commited.
Ln. No. 1929   Fourth Railway Project:  US$150 Million Loan of February 12, 1981;
Effectiveness Date: June 9, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Project execution is proceding on schedule.
Ln. No. 1945   Rainfed Agricultural Development Project:  US$150 Million Loan
of March 2, 1981;  Effectiveness Date:                 ;  Closing
Date: June 30, 1986.
The loan is not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1964   Ports Development Preparation Project:  US$14.0 Million Loan
of May 7, 1981; Effectiveness Date:                        Closin
Date: December 31, 1984.
The loan is not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1990   Second Urban and Regional Development Project:  US$164 million
Loan of                   ; Effective Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
This Loan, approved by the Executive Directors on May 12, 1981,
has not yet been signed.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
MEXICO
TECHNICAL TRAINING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare project: about 12 months
(b) Project prepared by: CONALEP
(c) First preparation mission: July 1980
(d) Departure of appraisal mission: January 1981
(e)  Negotiations completed in:   June 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: October 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) The annual work programs for the instructor training center, the
instructional materials production center and the information and
documentation center would be sent to the Bank for review and
comment (para. 58);
(b) The expansion of existing training centers and the location of new
training centers financed under the project would be in accordance
with criteria satisfactory to the Bank (para. 63); and
(c) CONALEP's development plan to 1988 would be sent to the Bank
for review and comment (para 64).



