Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21871
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-30490)
ON A
CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 80 MILLION AND A GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 75 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
UGANDA
FOR AN
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
06/01/2001
Human Development Group 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Ugandan Shilling (UI Sh)
1720 = US$ 1
US$ =
FISCAL YEAR
July I   June 30
ABBREVIATIONS ANDI ACRONYMS
DANIDA                  Danish International Development Agency
DFID                    Department for International Development (United Kingdom)
EPRC                    Education Policy Review Commissiotn
EMIS                    Education Management Information System
ESAC                    Education Sector Adjustment Credit
ESIP                    Edacation Strategic Investment Plan
GDP                     Gross Domestic Product
GER                     Gross Enrollment Ratio
GOU                     Government of Uganda
GTZ                     Gernan Agency for Technical Cooperation
HIPC                    Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative
IDA                     Intemational Development Association
JICA                    Japar,ese International Development Agency
LSP                     Letter of Sector Policy
MTBF                    Medium Term Budget Framework
MOE                     Ministry of Education
MOFPED                  Ministry of Finance, Plami iig and Economic Development
MOLG                    Ministry of Local Govemnment
MOP                     Memorandum of thIe President
MPS                     Ministry of Public Service
NGO                     Nongovernmental Organization
NRM                     National Resistanice Movement
PEAP                    Poverty Eradication Action Plan
PETDP                   Primary Education and Teacher Development Project
PRSC                    Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PTA                     Parent-Teacher Association
SAC                     Structural Adjustrnent Credit
SMC                     School Management Committee
SSA                     Sub-Saharan Africa
SWAPs                   Sector-Wide Approaches
TDMS                    Teacher Development and Management System
UNDP                    United Nations Development Program
UNEB                    Uganda National Examinations Board
UNESCO                   United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNICEF                  United Nations Children's Education Fund
UPPAP                   Uganda Participatory Poverty Assessment Project
UPE                     Universal Primary Education
USAID                   United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    James W. Adams
Sector Manager/Director:      Dzingai B.Mutumnbuka
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Paud Murphy



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UGANDA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  16
6. Sustainability                                                                      19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       20
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                      22
9. Partner Comments                                                                    25
10. Additional Information                                                            25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  34
Annex 8. Primary Education Indicators                                                  36
Annex 9. Policy Matrix                                                                 37
Annex 10. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                                 41
Annex 11. Letter of Sector Policy                                                      47
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
(CREDIT NO. 30490-UG)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Education Sector Adjustment Credit
(ESAC) for the Republic of Uganda. The credit was approved by the Board of Directors on March 24,
1998 and the legal documents were signed on April 15, 1998. It became effective on June 12, 1998. The
total IDA financing is SDR 114.7 million, of which SDR 55.5 million is a grant in the context of the
Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Debt Initiative.
The ICR was prepared by Adriaan M. Verspoor (Consultant), Harriet Nannyonjo (Operations
Officer, AFMUG), and Carla Bertoncino (Economist AFTH 1), under the supervision of Paud Murphy
(Lead Education Specialist, AFTH 1), with contributions and support from Debbie Peterson (Team
Assistant). It was reviewed by Bruce Jones (Sr. Economist, AFTH1) and then at the formal review
meeting.
This report was prepared following an ICR mission in December 2000, comprising of Adriaan
Verspoor, Harriet Nannyonjo and Carla Bertoncino. The ICR is based on information collected during that
mission and on material from the projects files.






Project ID: P002972                                      Project Name: EDUC SECTOR ADJ CRED
Team Leader: Patrick D. Murphy                           TL Unit: AFrH1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date. June 1, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: EDUC SECTOR ADJ CRED                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-30490
CountryIDepartment: UGANDA                                              Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: EE - Education Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  06/23/97                               Effective: 04/30/98           06/12/98
Appraisal.  10/29/97                                 MTR:
Approval:  03/24/98                               Closing: 12/31/2000          12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOV/MOFPED AND MOES
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                       Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager:    James W. Adams                            James W. Adams
Sector Manager:      Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                     Ruth Kagia
Team Leader at ICR:   Paud Murphy                             Eduardo Velez Bustillo
ICR Primary Author:   Adriaan M. Verspoor; Harriet
Nannyonjo; Carla Bertoncino
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=Higb, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
BankPerformance. HS
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                     HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background
Reconstructing and reforming the education system was an early priority of the National Resistance
Movement (NRM) Government, which came to power in Uganda in 1986. During the turmoil of the 1970s
and the first half of the 1980s access to and quality of education had sharply deteriorated. The 1987
Education Policy Review Commission (EPRC) made an urgent call for democratization and



universalization of access to basic education. This policy priority was re-affirmed by the Government
White Paper Committee appointed in 1991, and enshrined in the Uganda Constitution which states that "all
persons have a right to education" and also reaffirms that the state shall promote free and compulsory basic
education. Governnent reiterated this goal in its poverty eradication action plan of 1997.
Efforts to reach UPE were thwarted, however, by the inability of many poor Ugandan households to pay
the private costs of schooling. A study in the mid-1990s found that parents financed about 60 percent of
the direct costs of school-level education. Annual fees and PTA (parent-teacher association) dues averaged
at that time $6-8 per child, a significant burden for many households in a country with a GDP per capita of
less than $300. By 1995 almost 60% of school age children remained out of school. Girls, poor children
and children living in remote areas were at a particular disadvantage. Poor quality of instruction reflected
in high repetition and drop-out rates exacerbated these inequities.
At the same time, public expenditure on education was inefficient. As much as 20 percent of the
government budget allocated for primary teachers' salaries was going to "ghost" teachers; only 28 percent
of funding for non-salary inputs in schools ever reached the schools- the rest was diverted at the national
or district level; a significant proportion of expenditures was for across the board untargeted subsidies and
28% of the education recurrent education budget was allocated to higher education.
It was against this background that President Museveni, in December 1996, announced a bold new
government initiative to achieve universal primary education in Uganda. Under this initiative, starting in
the 1997 school year, all PTA fees and school tuition fees for up to four children from each family (two of
whom should be girls) were abolished. Some exceptions were made: orphans would be exempt from the
payment of all fees and PTAs in urban areas were allowed to continue levying some fees.
The impact of the UPE initiative on enrollment was extraordinary. At the beginning of the 1997 academic
year, implementation of the UPE policy led to an almost doubling of enrollment from 3.1 million in 1996
academic year to 5.3 million in 1997, with the Gross Enrollment Ratio (GER) increasing from 73% in 1996
to 124 % in 1997. This increase in enrollment exceeded all expectations. The Government suddenly faced
an education emergency that required an immediate response. It was clear to all concerned that unless
action was taken to establish minimum conditions for effective instruction, the deterioration in quality
might cause a backlash to the UPE policy, resulting in a decline in primary school participation,
particularly by the poor.
At the time, several external financing agencies, including the Bank, were active in the sector and engaged
in discussions with the government on the design of an optimal policy framework. This work was designed
explicitly to strengthen the analytic foundations of sector policy and was proceeding rather slowly. It
resulted by the end of 1998 in an Education Sector Investment Program (ESIP) after the Government of
Uganda, in recognition of the challenges imposed by the UPE initiative, initiated broad consultations with
external donors and other major stakeholders on the development of an investment and policy framework
for education. At the same time it was clear that action to deal with the consequences of the declaration of
UPE could not be postponed to wait for the completion of ESIP.
The Bank was supporting the Primary Education and Teacher Development Project (PETDP). At the time
of the UPE declaration, procurement and management problems had bogged down implementation progress
and the project was rated unsatisfactory in the PSR system. It was clear that an operation with a much
broader focus and a different approach would be needed to effectively address the challenges the
government was facing. The Minister of Education was active in the Association for the Development of
Education in Africa (ADEA) and was aware of the rnove towards Sector Wide Approaches (SWAPs) and
the flexible way the Bank had been supporting education development in other countries. He argued for an
instrument that could provide rapid and flexible support for the government's program.
-2 -



The country director, the sector manager and the task manager all recognized the urgency of providing
support to UPE and the need to provide additional resources and do so rapidly. The result was an
innovative and quick response: the Education Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC) which was to provide (i)
an IDA grant of $75 million in the context of the HIPC Debt initiative; and (ii) an IDA credit of $80
million. The proceeds were to be disbursed as general budget support against an agreed action program.
After some hesitation several other donors also adopted the budget support approach. From the outset
implementation review and policy dialogue were seen as a joint responsibility of the government and the
external financing agencies. Thus Uganda became the first country in Africa to implement an education
SWAP, but without the lengthy and complex preparations and negotiations that have characterized SWAPs
in other African countries such as Zambia and Ethiopia.
The operation was prepared expeditiously. Negotiations took place within eight months of the
identification mission. GOU and the Bank agreed that time was of the essence. National teams prepared
virtually all the documents supporting the policy matrix and the guidelines for implementation. This built
ownership at the technical level for the implementation of the UPE program. Bank and Government staff
recognized that the quality of this documentation was uneven and would need further development. To
some extent this happened as part of the preparation of ESIP. But even ESIP was seen as a revolving
document in need of further development and elaboration.
Program Objectives
The ESAC was designed to assist the Government of Uganda to deal with the immediate challenges
resulting from the UPE policy, by providing core budget support to close the UPE financing gap within the
framework of a sustainable education policy framework and a sound financial and macroeconomic
program. Education policy priorities supported by ESAC were to improve resource allocation and
utilization in the sector, improve the quality and availability of education inputs, and to support overall
sector management, planning, budgeting and information systems. The Government described the main
elements of its education sector development strategy in a "Letter of Education Sector Policy". The broad
development objective of ESAC was to assure that resources existed to sustain the growth in enrollment
and achieve universal primary education with improved allocation of public resources, efficient use of
resources, and availability of quality education inputs, and strengthened sector management.
To reach this objective ESAC was designed as an adjustment operation providing general budget support to
be released in three tranches contingent upon the implementation of actions specified in a policy matrix
(Annex 9). The policy matrix also specified the outcomes that these actions were expected to produce by
December 31, 2000. The disbursements were not tied to specific expenditures in the education sector (not
even in a broad sense, like local purchases vs. imports, or development vs. recurrent), but to the
implementation of policies and actions designed to clarify and disseminate the UPE policy, increase the
availability of resources for UPE, increase the efficiency of resource use, protect the quality of teaching
and learning and strengthen sector management. It therefore made moot concerns about IDA funding of
recurrent cost -especially teachers salaries- and by integrating them into the broader public expenditure and
medium term budget framework budget discussions.
Other Initiatives in the sector
Over and above the ESAC agenda, Government carried out several reforms under ESIP which focused on
the medium term needs of the entire sector. The key goals include improved access, improved quality,
strengthening the role of central government in policy making, building effective partnership between the
public and private sector, and between the Ministry Headquarters and the districts in delivering quality
education services.
-3 -



Other programs
The Third Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC III) which was implemented at the same time as ESAC was
designed to improve management and efficiency of public expenditure, including introduction of
Outcome-Oriented Budgeting in the sector (condition of the second tranche release), strengthening the
poverty focus of public spending through the Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) and of expenditure
management under decentralization. Implementation of PETDP improved significantly after 1997. In
particular the development of the Teacher Development and Management System (TDMS) was essential to
ensure the training of untrained teachers recruited under UPE and provision of continuous professional
development of other teachers in the system.
Assessment of Development Objectives
The project objectives supported the national UPE Policy. They were fully in line with the Government
Poverty Eradication Action Plan, focused on the most critical issues facing the sector at the time, and well
understood by all partners. The need for a financially significant and quick response curtailed preparation
time and made the definition of specific timebound and measurable performance indicators even more
hazardous than usual in education development. Moreover the ESAC objectives were focused mainly on
the short term. This carried the risk of neglecting medium term issues and broader sectoral linkages,
although it was anticipated that ESIP would provide the opportunity for further analysis, medium-term goal
specification and policy dialogue. There were obvious risks associated with this approach. But in
retrospect, the view of the country team that analysis should not be an obstacle to action and that the strong
government commitment to the UPE program and the productive working relationship between financing
agencies and the government would ensure effective program implementation has tumed out to be correct.
3.2 Revised Objective:
n.a.
3.3 Original Components:
Improved allocation of resources. Ensuring adequate recurrent and development funding for primary
education was a key objective of ESAC. This implied the allocation of more resources to primary
education. Government proposed to allocate to the primary education recurrent budget at least 19.5% of
the total recurrent expenditure (excluding statutory and interest payments) in FY 98/99 and 17.5% in FY
99/00, compared to 16.4% in 1996/7 and 9% in 1995/6, before UPE. This was expected to make it
possible to hire additional teachers, clear the teacher salary arrears as well as cover the additional cost of
capitation grants . At the same time the Government planned to progressively phase out boarding subsidies
at university level, and reduce publicly financed enrollment in tertiary education. To ensure that active
parental support for primary would continue, clear explanations would be provided of the role of parents'
monetary and in-kind contribution in the context of the new UPE policy.
Increased efficiency in the use of resources. To ensure the financial viability of the UPE program,
measures to increase efficiency in teacher and classroom utilization were essential. Specifically,
Govemment planned to (i)introducing double-shift teaching in selected grades in a small number of schools
in 1999 under voluntary agreements; (ii) pilot multi-grade teaching in at least two schools in two districts;
(iii) implement an action plan to prevent excess supply of teachers, following a study on primary teacher
supply and demand; and (iv) expand classroom construction through piloting of different modalities
involving communities, private sector and Government.
Protecting Quality Inputs. It was recognized that to avoid a backlash to the UPE policy and decline in
primary school participation, particularly by the poor the quality of education provision should be protected
as much as possible. To this end the Governmnent planned to achieve a pupil: textbook ratio of 3:1 for
- 4 -



Math and English and to increase the share of trained teachers. The goal for textbooks was to be attained
by adopting new policies for the provision, distribution and utilization of textbooks and other instructional
materials that were allowed for choice of textbooks by schools and by including, for the first time,
textbooks and instructional materials as a specific recurrent expenditure item in the education budget (at
least 2.8% of the total recurrent budget). To improve the quality of the teaching force the Government
committed to strengthening teacher training by extending the Teacher Development and Management
System, TDMS, to cover all districts.
Strengthening sector management: To improve the operation and management capacity of the sector,
Government proposed to establish an Education Management Information System, eliminate ghost
teachers, reduce the hiring of untrained teachers and ensure the timely payment of all active teachers,
strengthen the management of the primary teachers' payroll, implement a system for monitoring the
accountability of public funds allocated to districts and schools, and ensure the preparation of district
development plans, including school maps.
The absence of an HIV/AIDS component is notable. In the context of ESAC it was not felt as a priority
although an HIV/AIDS strategy for the sector has subsequently been developed and recently finalized.
According to the official MOES statistics, in 1995 the teacher attrition rate attributable to mortality was
1.1% (against an average population death rate of 1.9%); in 1998 (the last year for which this information
is available), the same rate was 1%, virtually unchanged.
3.4 Revised Components:
n.a.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
A QAG review rated several aspects of the operation as exemplary: client focus, quick response, poverty
orientation and a financial commitment realistically commensurate with the problem at hand. The
government commitment and ownership was (and still is) remarkable: the UPE program is clearly seen as a
"homegrown" key element of Uganda's long term development strategy. Similarly the readiness of the
Bank to provide the needed budget support and combine available IDA grant and credit resources into a
flexible financing package and to do so quickly, was considered to epitomize the Bank at its best. Several
design features were considered best practice:
*   The emphasis on shifting resources to the school level, while ensuring increased transparency and
accountability;
*   The technical advice based on intemational experience with double shifting and multi-grade
teaching;
*   Linking tranche release to the level of resource allocation to the sector with special provision for
instructional materials and improved management of payroll, with a view to ensuring adequate
funding for the primary sub-sector.
But the review also pointed out significant weaknesses. First, the quality of the Bank documentation did
not adequately portray the strengths of the operation. In addition, several more substantive weaknesses
were identified: (i) overconfidence in the design of the operation and incomplete risk analysis; (ii)
insufficient provision to ensure that the program would reach the rural poor and that children that do enroll
actually stay in school; (iii) inadequate provision to move towards a strategy of long term quality
improvement; and (iv) too little emphasis on the monitoring and evaluation and the development of local
capacity for this purpose. The task team was not unaware of these weaknesses and the risks it was taking.
But the team was driven by the need to respond quickly to what was perceived as an emergency situation,
- 5 -



was confident that the government would deliver on its promises and that the demand by the poor for
affordable education would remain strong, thus obviating the immnediate need for targeted interventions.
The resolution of several key issues was thus postponed to the implementation phase. Moreover, virtually
all the preparation work was designed to meet the requirements of the preparation of the three-year policy
matrix and the conditions for tranche release. Longer-term strategic issues were not central in the dialogue
at that time.
In retrospect the judgment of the task team on the commitment and the ability of the government to deliver
and on the demand response of the poor turned out to be correct. But the consequences of the absence of a
well designed quality improvement strategy and the weakness of the monitoring and evaluation
arrangements became increasingly apparent as implementation proceeded. And, they were exacerbated by
the fact that the preparation work was based on only a rudimentary financial projection model,
underestimated enrollment levels, the resources required for instructional materials and the complexities of
the teacher recruitment, payroll management and teacher redeployment, while overestimating the
commitment to double shifting and neglecting to address issues related to deployment of teachers at the
school level. These issues would haunt the program during implementation.
The rating of the project at entry by the Quality Assurance group was Satisfactory. The ICR rates Quality
at Entry as Highly Satisfactory. While the weaknesses in documentation and design of the operation
cannot be contested, it is not clear that --especially given the absence of reliable data on key education
indicators-- further analysis and preparation work would have contributed significantly to implementation
effectiveness. The urgency of the situation made a rapid response imperative. At the same time it created
the challenge of continued analysis and policy development during implementation. And perhaps most
importantly, the expeditious and courageous response through ESAC to what was clearly the central
education development of the moment, established Bank leadership within the donor community, galvanized
donor support for UPE and provided the framework for the Bank's long term involvement in the sector as a
central thrust of the CAS.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective.
The support provided by IDA through ESAC has been central in helping GOU deal with the consequences
of the dramatic increase in enrollments in 1997 following the announcement of the UPE policy in 1996. It
did this by:
* Providing financial assistance totaling, on average, a 20% share of primary education expenditures in
the total recurrent discretionary budget during 1997-2000.
* Contributing to the development of a three-year policy framework designed to restore minimum
operational efficiency and quality to the system.
*  Establishing a framework for coordinated donor support for the UPE policy.
* Participating in the policy dialogue and development process that continued and broadened during the
implementation of ESAC.
Given the trend in official enrollment since 1997, Universal Primary Education is now within reach.
Implementation of the UPE Policy has significantly reduced the wealth and gender biases in access to
primary education. The Household Surveys of 1992 and 1999, show that primnary enrollment for the bottom
quintile which was slightly above 50 percent in 1992 as compared to 82 percent in the top quintile, had
increased to 84 percent in 1999 compared to 85 percent for the top quintile. These surveys also found that
by 1999 for the 9-12 age group in the bottom quintile, 89 percent of the girls and 91 percent of the boys
- 6 -



had been enrolled compared to 59 percent and 67 percent in 1992. The impact on poverty and gender is
therefore rated high.
The Universal Education Policy Primary education received an increased share of the budget during the
1997-2000 period, even exceeding the minimum level projected and agreed. Resource availability at the
school level has increased markedly, with about 20% of the primary education recurrent budget transferred
to schools through the capitation grant. The dramatic deterioration in key input (teachers, classrooms, and
books) ratios, which occurred in 1997, is gradually being reversed. About 8% of the total primary
education budget is available for the central purchase of instructional materials in FY 00/01 as opposed to
5% and 2% for FY 99/00 and 98/99 respectively.
Accountability and transparency in resource use has improved. In an increasing number of communities,
parents and other community members are involved in the operation of the schools through the
Parent-Teacher Association (PTA) or the School Management Commnittee (SMC). All teachers on the
payroll are now being paid regularly. All districts have prepared a school map and a district development
plan. The TDMS now has the capacity to provide training for teachers (in-service teacher training and
professional development programs) and communities nationwide. A sector wide approach to support
education development involving all major financing agencies is firmly in place, and is providing the
foundation for effective long term external support for the development of education in Uganda. The
achievements are even more remarkable given the fact that the expected dropout of overage students did not
occur and the 1998-00 level of enrollment significantly exceeded the 1997 appraisal projections.
Yet important challenges remain and several of the outcomes specified in the policy matrix have not been
achieved. Community support for and understanding of the UPE policy remains uneven. Enrollments in
public schools in 2000 are 6.1 million (including about 2 million overage and underage children), almost
20% above the 1997 level. The actual pupil/teacher ratio is 66:1. The pupil textbook ratio averages 6.7:1
in core subjects. The student-classroom ratio still stands at 120:1. The EMIS is not yet fully operational.
Monitoring and evaluation capacity remains inadequate. Annex I summarizes the current status of the
performance indicators of the policy matrix. There are at least two main reasons for falling short of the
performance goals: (i) enrollments remained much higher than expected; (ii) administrative obstacles and
complex inter-ministerial coordination delayed implementation of some of the key policy measures and
actions.
While falling short of the outcomes targeted for December 31, 2000, for some key performance indicators
of the policy matrix, the outcome of ESAC is on balance rated as highly satisfactory. This rating is
justified by the substantial development results of the operation -achieved in just two and a half years.
Though not perfect in its outcomes or its implementation, ESAC has been uniquely instrumental in moving
the complex transitional process forced upon the system by the 1996 UPE policy in a positive direction.
The "big bang" UPE strategy resulted in an enormous disruption of a system already uneven in terms of
output quality. Total primary enrollments increased by 70% from 3.1 million in 1996 to 5.3 million in
1997. Much of this increase was in the first grade, P1, and included underage and overage children. The
1998 P1 intake was more than twice the number of six years old. Children in the earliest grades suffered
most from the shortage of teachers. ESAC helped GOU cope with the daily challenges posed by this state
of things, while also introducing systemic changes (in monitoring and evaluation, in donor coordination, in
budgeting) that have inter alia set the stage for a promising Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC,
discussed further), addressing the gender issue and successfully experimenting with decentralized
classroom construction.
The actions taken since UPE was launched -with the support of the Bank (through ESAC and PETDP) and
other external financiers-have helped stabilize the system and created conditions where the central issues
of quality of instruction and learning achievement can be addressed successfully. Moreover, the
- 7 -



implementation experience contains important lessons for the design of follow-on operations and for other
countries that are contemplating accelerating progress towards Universal Primary Education.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Improved Allocation of Resources
The Government met and even surpassed the target to allocate to the primary education recurrent budget at
least 19.5% of the total recurrent expenditure (excluding statutory and interest payments) in FY 98/99 and
17.5% in FY 99/00. For the same years the allocation was 20.3% and 21% respectively and the latest
Medium Term Budget Framework (MTBF) provides for 22.6%, 21.9% and 22.2% in the next three fiscal
years respectively. Total expenditures on education between 1997/98 and 2000/01 increased from 2.9% to
4.5% of GDP. The share of primary education expenditure increased from 56% to 69% of the total
education recurrent budget in the same period, thus meeting the ESIP target.
This upward deviation from the original targets for spending on primary education reflects the fact that the
allocations in the ESAC policy matrix were based on financial projections that forecast a decrease in
enrollment of 345,000 students (6.5% of the 1997 enrollment) in 1998 and very modest increases
thereafter. As it turned out, enrollment in Government-aided schools was higher than projected by about
20% between 1997 and 2000, largely because the anticipated drop-out of older students did not occur (see
Table l). In order to try and meet the targets in terms of input per pupil that were specified in the policy
matix, the Government made additional provision in the budget in terms of teacher establishment,
instructional materials and capitation grants.
_    P1     _2          r3          P4         P_ P6                 P7       Total
1996       797.208    550,149    500,693         419,967    338,336    266,998    195,275   3,068,626
1997      1_951.718 _967266    708,661   551.248    436,768    327,341    227,444   5,170,446
1998       1655,126  1,312,593   863,148    704163    5451       428564    297,640   5,06,38
1999       1,500,288   1,104,097 71044,294   757,210    633,99i    516549    368,554   5,924,984
2000 est.)  1,270,181      74      41   616,001    392,020    328,929   6,086,44S
Uganda is spending even more on primary education than the current data show, because they do not
include as yet the amount Districts are allocating to education from their unconditional, or block, grants. In
fact, as part of the decentralization program, Districts are receiving an increasingly higher share of
unconditional grants in the total transfers from the Central Government. District Councils are then free to
allocate these unconditional grants to the different sectors and subsectors, and some of these resources are
likely to be spent on primary education.
The increase in the share of primary education in the recurrent budget was helped by the implementation of
a set of higher education policies that increased the efficiency of resource utilization (e.g. increased facility
utilization and teaching loads) and reduced the financial dependence on the state (e.g. demand driven
courses and privately sponsored students). Between 1995 and 2000 undergraduate enrollments almost
tripled while total higher education expenditures remained virtually constant. At the same time total public
spending on education almost doubled, thus bringing the share of higher education to about 14% from 25%
in 1995.
The structure of expenditure on primary education also improved considerably. A key factor was the
implementation of a monitoring system for transparency and accountability of public funds allocated to
districts and schools, which ensured that 90% of the capitation grant transferred to the districts would
- 8 -



actually reach the school level (up from about 28% in 1996). The share of teacher salaries in expenditures
on primary education is only 66%; about 22% of the recurrent budget, or about USh. 7500/pupil (about
US$4) is available for the purchase of textbooks and other instructional materials and the support of a wide
range of school level activities. This creates opportunities for the delivery of quality instruction that are not
available in many other African countries where the share of non-salary expenditures rarely exceeds 5% of
the budget. The current guidelines for utilization of capitation grants by schools allow for 50% of the
funds to be used for extra instructional/scholastic materials, 30 % for co-curricular activities, 15 % for
management and 5% for administration. A recent study on the allocation formula for capitation grants
established that 45.1% of the capitation funds were used for instructional materials.
Yet, in spite of these considerable financial efforts a severe shortage of teachers and textbooks persisted
throughout the 1997-2000 period. Initially, the teacher establishment was kept low due to underestimation
of the UPE enrollment and the tight fiscal framework, advised by the IMF and supported by the Bank.
Subsequently, as the fiscal space for teaching staff expanded, the shortage was caused by trained teachers
supply and recruitment capacity constraints. The early strict fiscal regirne seems to have been informed by
concems about the fiscal sustainability of big increases in recurrent cost given the uncertainty about the
extent of future external budget support. In view of the strong macroeconomic performance record of
Uganda in the 1990s the Bank and the IMF decided to bridge the gap between the original HlPC Initiative
(HIPC I) decision and completion points with an interim pool of resources. In other words at the time of
the decision point for HIPC I (April 1997) the Ugandan macroeconomic outlook constituted a virtual
guarantee of satisfaction of the completion point requirements, due in April 1998. This resulted in a $75
miillion grant immediately available for ESAC, but it also meant that Uganda was still under strict IMF
macroeconomic surveillance. To maintain the pupil:teacher ratio at the pre-UPE level of 40:1, the number
of teachers on the payroll would have to more than double.
This was clearly impossible and a major threat to fiscal sustainability assuming a conservative scenario,
i.e. that budget supportfor primary education would go back to pre-ESAC levels after the operation's
completion. In observance of this safeguard, the GOU Letter of Sector Policy for ESAC proposed not to
exceed an establishment of about 91,000 teachers in 1998, to implement measures to increase the efficiency
of teacher deployment between and within schools and to raise that ceiling in subsequent years only as the
funds became available. An establishment of 91,000 meant very little additional hiring for the 1998 school
year (in the 1997 headcount a total of 89,000 teachers were found working in government-aided schools,
though only 65,000 on payroll ) and an ex-post pupil:teacher ratio of about 65:1.
Undoubtedly part of the reason for setting the teacher establishment so low had to do with the projections
foreseeing a 6% drop in enrollment in 1998, but a major role was played by the uncertainty on future
external budgetary support to primary education. In addition to insufficient establishment numbers,
unexpected inefficiencies in the hiring and deployment of teachers, as discussed in the section on sector
management, created an acute teacher shortage in Uganda. Recently the Enhanced HIPC Initiative (also
known as HIPC II) has given Uganda the opportumity to set a new sustainable sequence of ceilings, starting
with 125,000 teachers in FY 00/01 and finishing with approximately 140,000 in FY 02/03, a number that
should provide schools with about one teacher for every 40 pupils.
Notwithstanding the important remaining challenges, additional resources for primary education have been
forthcoming and the structure of the resource allocations to primary education has significantly improved.
The achievement of this component is therefore rated highly satisfactory.
Increased Efficiency in the Use of Resources
(i) Double-shifting: As discussed above, financial constraints made it impossible to maintain the pre-UPE
pupil:teacher ratio of 40:1. Instead, the establishment was fixed so as to achieve a pupil:teacher ratio of
110:1 for PI-P2 and 55:1 for P3-P7, for a total payroll of 91,000. The intention in adopting this
-9-



establishment formula was to induce schools to implement double-shifting in PI-P2, the biggest classes at
the time, so that de facto a class size:teacher ratio of 55:1 would be achieved. At the same time the
Government planned to conduct a sensitization campaign and develop an implementation plan that was
going to facilitate the dissemination of the double-shifting practice, while making budget allocations for a
salary incentive to teachers of double-shift classes.
The Government and the Bank, focusing on the imperative of cost control through a technically
straightforward solution - the largest classes would be the ones being taught only half day, so that a shift in
the morning and one in the afternoon were perfectly possible - greatly underestimated the diffuse resistance
to double-shifting, within Government itself and from the parents and the teachers. An experiment with
double-shifting in secondary education in the past had negative results and the Government had declared
double-shifting an undesirable practice. This constituted a poor starting point for the promotion of
double-shifting in primary education.
In spite of the Government's bold declarations in the letter of sector policy for ESAC, the subsequent
signals sent to the schools in terms of adoption of double-shifting were mixed, and the Government may not
have been proactive and committed enough in offering solutions to the logistical problems parents perceive
in the implementation of double-shifting, as well as to the PI -P2 teachers' resistance to teaching two classes
a day. In 1999 a few schools in two districts conducted a pilot in double-shifting and the results reported
are not encouraging. Teachers are now being offered a 25% incentive for double-shifting but it is not clear
that they consider this amount attractive enough.
All this has so far resulted in four P1-P2 cohorts of students trying to learn in massively overcrowded
classrooms, with less instructional time available than in the higher grades. Even though the Government
continues promoting sensitization activities and several workshops in different districts were conducted in
2000 for the purpose, the experience so far suggests that in the future the problem is more likely to be
solved by hiring more teachers than by double-shifting. In this sense the current efforts of the Teacher
Education Department in the MOES to develop guidelines and training modules for multi-grade teaching in
large-classes may offer the best hope of improving learning in overcrowded enviromnents.
(ii) Multi-grade teaching. The plan for multi-grade was more modest. The model that was selected, in
fact, requires specific teacher training and instructional materials and is therefore relatively demanding to
introduce. Apart from formulating a policy and an implementation program, the plan contemplated
demonstration sites in at least two schools in two districts in 1999, and promotion of voluntary
participation. The pilot was targeted at small schools in remote areas. . Multi-grade learning guides were
prepared, teacher training workshops took place in 1999, and information activities carried out. But the
learning guides -essential tools for partial self instruction strategy adopted in these classes- were not yet
available by the end of 2000 in the classroom and teachers appointed within the last year had not yet been
trained. (The ICR mission visited two of the five schools piloting multi-grade in Kalangala and neither the
specific instructional materials nor the appropriately trained teachers were there). The Teacher Education
Department in MOES has now finalized the guidelines for multi-grade teaching and the modules for teacher
training and more effective pilots may be initiated in the 2001 school year.
Multi-grade can potentially address two issues: the one of schools in remote areas not having enough pupils
in any one class to meet the 55:1 ratio of the establishment, and that of reassigning teachers from the
relatively small upper grades classes to the huge lower grades ones. Within the context of UPE a simplified
multi-grade strategy might have helped to deal with the widespread imbalances in class size within schools
through the multi-grade deployment of teachers across student groups of roughly similar size. This would
- 10-



have resulted in the reassignment of teachers from the higher grades to the lower grades and reduced the
problems of overcrowding and double shifting in PI and P2.
(iii) Complete a study on primary teacher supply and demand, approve and implement an action plan to
prevent excess supply of teachers. The school-based determination of the teacher establishment revealed
great unevenness, across and within districts in the schools' need for teachers. Kamnpala had an excess
number of teachers that was reflected in severe shortages of teachers in schools in remote areas. The
solution to this problem entailed three steps: declaring and publicizing vacancies nationally, tenninating the
excess teachers and encouraging them to apply for a new position in the areas with vacant positions. The
first two steps took place in 1999, but filling the vacancies proved to be very difficult.
The preliminary results from the 2000 headcount (an on-site physical count by district staff) indicate a
persistent high variation among districts in terms of pupil:teacher ratio, with a minimum of 36:1 in
Kalangala and a maximum of 97:1 in Kotido (govemnment-aided schools). The Government has recently
taken a series of measures to redress this situation. The FY 00/01 primary education budget provides for a
20% hardship allowance for qualified teachers serving in difficult locations, and remote areas are carrying
out plans for construction of teacher housing. Furthermore, there is a plan for hiring 15,000 secondary
school graduates to teach in the shortage areas and be trained in service. The Teacher Education
Commission has plans ready to meet this training demand through TDMS.
(iv) Strengthen and consolidate the policy on classroom cons nuction. The technical paper on
cost-effective classroom construction, the only one -as part of the preparation for ESAC- by an
international consultant, proposed a conmnunity-based, decentralized construction method instead of the
central contracting approach that had been used in previous projects. The construction program started
slowly, but accelerated once the guidelines and procedures for the community construction strategy were
understood. Between 1997 and 2000 a total of about 25,000 classrooms were either completed or
constructed using both community managed and centrally contracted modalities. The central contracting
approach results in classrooms that are about twice the cost ($ 10,000) of those constructed by community
managed approach ($5000). But it can deliver quickly good quality construction, especially for large
schools in urban areas. The community-managed approach is less costly and can provide good quality
infrastructure across a wide range of sites provided technical support is available to communities.
Financial support to communities was made available through the school Facilities Grants (SFG) program.
Under this approach MOES sets policy, monitors performance and audits accounts, MOFPED provides
the budget, District governments supervise construction and communities and contractors implement
construction. It has now picked up speed and 2000 is the first year in which a total of at least 8,000
classrooms were completed and/or constructed - the capacity the technical paper had estimated. In fact
experience to date suggests that this approach is capable of delivering even more classrooms if increased
funding were to become available. The current pupil:classroom ratio is 120:1, the same as the pre-UPE
level, down from 205:1 of the first UPE year. Implementation of accelerated construction using mainly the
SFG approach should bring the pupil:classroom ratio down to about 70:1 by 2005.
The outcome of this component is at this point rated -on balance- satisfactory. The double-shifting and
multi-grade pilots have not yielded the anticipated results and teacher deployment remains uneven. But
considerable progress has been made with the development of a cost-effective classroom construction
strategy. In addition, measures have now been adopted to accelerate teacher recruitment (see above) and
tackle the problems of the unequal distribution of teachers between districts.
Protecting Quality Inputs
From the outset GOU recognized that, in the medium term, UPE would almost inevitably result in a
deterioration in the conditions of leaming and therefore in learning achievement for those already enrolled.
- 11 -



This can be evinced from the Letter of Sector Policy, which considers (par. 4) the UPE goal of providing
every child of school age with the minimum necessary input for entering and remaining in school reachable
by 2003, six years after the UPE introduction. GOU's awareness of the need to avail itself of external help
to achieve the UPE objective also appear in the LSP (par. 25).
Evidence on learning outcomes is scarce. But the data that are available suggest that the decline in learning
actually did take place. Tests administered to P3 pupils in 1996 and 1999 showed a decline in the
proportion of students with satisfactory results in mathematics from 48 to 31% and in English from 92 to
56% on the oral test. Promotion is supposed to be automatic but voluntary repetition was estimated at
about 8% in 1998, and drop in enrollments between P1 in 1997 and P3 in 1999 at more than 30%.
The government considers this a price worth paying for providing access to basic schooling for those that
had been previously excluded. ESAC was designed to help the government protect quality as much as was
possible under the circumstances. But, the goals set to ensure reasonable conditions of learning were
relatively modest- 55 students per teacher, one book to be shared by three students and about 90 students
per classrooms- although the share of the recurrent budget for primary education was projected to decline
from 19.5% to 17.5%.
(i) Textbooks. Textbook availability remains far below the targeted 3:1 ratio. The Project Implementation
Unit in MOES estimates a ratio ranging from 5:1 for English to 8:1 for Science. Cost and finance issues
were key contributing factors to the persistent shortage of textbooks: (i) budget allocations were based on
financial projection in local currency at the time of ESAC preparation, and no adjustment was made for
the substantial depreciation of the USh. even though all textbooks are imported; (ii) production
specifications were set at a level probably inconsistent with the US dollar price used for the projections;
(iii) the life span of the textbooks was overestimated; (iv) the 1998-2000 enrollment was underestimated;
and (v) the actual national budget allocations were lower than suggested in the relevant background paper.
As a result, the central allocation for the purchase of textbooks was insufficient. The average price of the
textbooks in the past three years has been almost $6, while in 1997 a unit cost of about $2.50 was assumed
for the projections. An annual expenditure of about $16 million ($2.50 per child) would be adequate to
ensure a textbook provision for four core subjects at the targeted 3:1 ratio after four years, at a price of
$6/book (including provision for loss and teachers guides). The central allocation for textbook purchase
was $8 million, $7 million and $14 million in 1997/98, 1998/99 and 1999/00 respectively. Even if the
schools had annually spent about 20% of their capitation grant (about $2.5 million) to buy textbooks, the
total budget allocations in the first two years were inadequate to meet even the modest 3:1 target ratio.
Procurement problems contributed to persisting textbook shortages, while the teachers' underutilization of
the available textbooks further reduces the impact of on learning achievement. Another important factor
slowing down the resolution of the textbook shortage was the priority that was given to a major -and in
many respects controversial- curriculum reform and the development of new syllabi and new textbooks. In
retrospect this was probably one challenge too many and it would have been wiser to postpone design
implementation of these reforms for a number of years until the system stabilized and the emergency issues
had been dealt with.
Yet all available research evidence confirms the critical importance of instructional materials. Ensuring an
adequate supply of textbooks -especially in the four core subjects-- and other instructional materials is
central to the efforts to enhance the quality of instruction in Ugandan classrooms. The problems are not
unsolvable provided clear priority is given to (i) solving the procurement issues, (ii) ensuring an adequate
supply of textbooks in the core subjects, (iii) reducing the cost per book and (iv) increasing the share of the
capitation grant allocated to textbooks. These measures could result in increases in pupil textbook ratios
in the core subjects to 2: 1 or even 1: 1.
- 12 -



The policy matrix condition to allocate at least 2.8% of the primary education recurrent budget to
instructional materials was symbolic compared to the actual needs. It had, however, an important
implication for the budget process as it created the space for an annual recurrent allocation for instructional
materials which have traditionally been funded by project aid and provided for in the development budget
only. The approach has been successful: the MTBF for the next three years contains increasing recurrent
allocations for instructional materials.
(ii) Teachers Salaries and Teacher Development. Teachers salaries were maintained in real terms at the
1997 levels. The management of the teacher payroll has improved significantly. Teachers who are on the
payroll are now being paid regularly. Arrears have been cleared. The time it takes for a teacher to get on
the payroll, after she has been hired and reported for duty in the school where she has been assigned, has
been recently reduced from 12 to 2 months, while an inter-ministerial working group is considering ways to
simplify the process further. This cannot but have a positive impact on the commitment and morale of the
teachers. Meanwhile all the district officers involved in teacher recruitment and deployment are being
trained by the Ministry of Public Service.
The Teacher Development and Management System (TDMS) initially supported under the PETDP has
established a delivery mechanism and developed a bank of training materials that can be used to provide
professional development and in-service upgrading programs to teachers, school and district level
administrators and community members involved in SMCs and PTAs. About 10,000 teachers have been
upgraded. Eighteen Primary Teacher Colleges (PTCs) support a network of 560 Coordinating Centers
staffed by an experienced resource teacher, each supporting a cluster of about 20 schools. Although the
infrastructure rehabilitation activities are still going on, the network is fully operational nationwide. The
challenge is to use it for the implementation of professional development, upgrading and training programs
that are well focused and explicitly designed to improve classroom instruction. Pre-service training has
been rationalized with the closure of 48 small PTCs, but the low completion rate (60%) in these colleges
suggests problems of instructional effectiveness that need to be addressed.
(iii) Classrooms and class size. The classroom-pupil ratio by the end of 2000 was 1:120. The resulting
overcrowding of classrooms and "teaching under the tree" cannot but adversely affect the effectiveness of
teaching and learning. The impact of this shortage of physical facilities is made worse by the very large
class size- caused by unexpectedly cumbersome teacher recruitment procedures and the failure of the
double shift policy. Student-teacher ratios were about 65:1 in 2000, much higher that the already high 55:1
target.
Notwithstanding the remarkable efforts to develop a system for large scale continuous teacher support
development and certification, and the real progress on the management of the payroll (see below), the
objective of protecting the quality inputs has not been -perhaps could not have been --achieved. Four years
after the declaration of UPE severe shortages of classrooms and teachers persist. Textbook ratios remain
unacceptably low. The deployment of teachers between districts and within schools remains inequitable
and inefficient. Informal reports suggest that in urban areas parents who can afford it withdraw their
children from governnent-aided schools to enroll them in private schools. The Uganda Participatory
Poverty Assessment Project (UPPAP), that in 1999 produced an extensive report including access to and
quality of public services, confirms the general perception of a decline in quality, and the poorer parents'
concem over their children making the effort to attend school but getting little out of it.
In sum, the outcome of this component can only be rated as marginally satisfactory at this point in timne.
It is, however, encouraging to see that promising steps have been taken to restore minimum conditions of
operational effectiveness in the schools through programs of emergency recruitment of teachers, and
accelerated construction of classrooms. This will allow teachers -who are now being paid on time- to apply
- 13-



the training and support available through TDMS, provided the issues concerning textbook financing and
procurement can be resolved expeditiously. Also heartening is the fact that GOU's strategic plan for
education addresses most of the communities' recommendations reported by UPPAP.
Strengthening Sector Management
To improve the operation and management of the sector the government was committed to establish a
Monitoring and Evaluation (EMIS), improve teacher payroll management and implement a monitoring
system for the accountability of public funds allocated to districts and schools. But equally important was
the implication of the provision of the proceeds of the credit and the grant as general budget support. This
placed the responsibility for the implementation of the ESAC supported investment program clearly in the
regular units of the Ministry of Education instead of in parallel project implementation units. This is
discussed in the section on the institutional impact of the project.
(i) Establishment of an Education Management Information System: Under ESAC, actions for the
establishment of (EMIS) were accomplished. A system was designed with the contribution of stakeholders
(including donors) on the inputs and outputs to be included, all districts were trained on use of the system
and production of reports. All districts completed education development planning, including school
mapping. These plans continue to guide the ongoing classroom construction. However, computerization of
the system was stalled due to delays in procuring computers for districts. The delays in operationalizing
the EMIS also made it difficult to establish an effective financial projection model for the sector. This
hampered policy discussion which often had to take place -and to a significant extent still are taking place
-- in the absence of sufficiently detailed or reliable data.
(ii) Improvement ofpayroll management: Considerable attention was given to imnproved coordination
between the Ministry of Public Service, Ministry of Education and Sports, Ministry of Finance, Planning
and Economic Development and Ministry of Local Govermment, as well as ensuring that active teachers are
on the payroll and are paid in a timely manner. This was achieved to a large extent through establishment
of an interministerial working group (see above). The working group prepared an action plan for
improvement of the primary teachers' payroll management.
During implementation of this action plan all teachers above the establishment ceiling were identified, their
services terminated, and the payroll updated. This, together with the measures adopted for monitoring
accountability and transparency, helped to eliminate ghosts from the payroll. Training and facilitation for
district officials together with simplification of the pay change report system has helped to reduce the
number of teachers in Government aided schools who are not on the payroll and to ensure that teachers are
paid in a timely manner.
However, ensuring that all primary school teachers were on the payroll and paid in a timely manner proved
more difficult than anticipated. For example, it was found that there were seventeen steps before a teacher
could be entered on the payroll after his appointment. This issue dominated much of the early
implementation discussion. The missing elements in the earlier action plan, and agreed during the course of
implementation, included a review of the pay change report system to avoid deletion of teachers from the
payroll on transfer from one school to the other. The staff establishment was also reviewed upwards, an
action that facilitated appointment of those teachers found to be employed by SMCs to teach in
Government aided schools.
(iii) Increased Accountability for Public Funds. Implementation of a system for monitoring accountability
and transparency was substantially achieved. MOES issued guidelines to ensure transparency and
accountability of public funds released to districts and schools. These guidelines among others included the
- 14 -



publication in the press by the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development of the conditional
grant transfers to the districts. Districts in turn notify the schools of the funds transferred and display
publicly the total amount received from the central Government for UPE, display at the district
administration office and sub-county notice board a full list of Government Aided schools and the amounts
given to each school. This list is updated whenever funds are released. Schools also display, in a place
accessible to the community, the amounts budgeted and received on a monthly basis, headteachers send
monthly accountability reports to the District Chief Administrative Officer and copies this to the
chairperson of the SMC. PTAs and SMSs are increasingly taking part in decisions about the use of
capitation grants and in the SFG supported classroom construction. A financial tracking study undertaken
in 2000 indicated that 90 percent of the funds allocated by the Ministry of Finance Planning and Economic
Development reached schools, up from 28 percent in 1996. An Integrity Survey undertaken in 1998
identified the education sector as one of the least corrupt. These actions also greatly enhanced community
involvement in schools.
While the EMIS is not yet operational and data management challenges persist both at the central and the
district level, real progress has been made especially in payroll management and the establishment of
transparency and accountability. On balance the outcome of this component to date is judged as
satisfactory.
In light of the preceding discussion the team rates high the impact on sector policies, and substantial that
on physical infrastructure and institutional development.
~~ wrs~~~Tble 2
Sumary  of Ratqga _
Component/ Allocation Efficient Protecting Strengthening Sector Physical Institutional Poverty Gender Overall
Impact        of    Use of  Quality    Sector    Policies
Resources Resources  Inputs  Management
Rating        HS       S       Ms        S         H       S        su su     H                S
Note: HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, MS=Marginally Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory; H=High, SU=Substantial,
M=Modest, N=Negligible.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Annex 3 summarizes the results of the economic analysis performed at the time of appraisal. A more
in-depth analysis of the same data set (the 1992/93 Household Survey, HS), recently published, confirms
the private rate of return reported in Annex 3 (18%) when the same assumptions on the opportunity and
direct costs of primary attendance is made. This recent work also decomposes the total effect of schooling
on productivity into increased earnings from labor reallocation and direct earnings increase. The result is
interesting in that as much as 40% of the rate of return might be due to switching from farm to non-farming
self-employment activities.
It would be useful to estimate the rate of return using the same assumptions but with a post-UPE
introduction data set. These estimations, in fact, calculate the marginal impact on earnings of additional
education, i.e. they are a partial equilibrium analysis. They do not consider the effect on the market value
of primary education that a massive event like UPE can have. Unfortunately the 1999/2000 HS does not
contain information on earnings other than formal sector wages. Even though a preliminary estimate using
wages suggests a 16% marginal return to primary education, it would be misleading to compare it with the
estimate from the previous HS use given that the formal sector in Uganda only involves about 16% of the
labor force. It is to be hoped that the next HS questionnaire will include the same income variables as the
1992/93 HS.
- 15 -



4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact is rated as substantial. The "learning by doing" capacity building
strategy adopted from the outset and the change from project aid to budget support made new demands on
the existing systems for planning implementation, financial management and procurement. Starting with
the technical papers prepared prior to the appraisal of ESAC most of the technical work has been done by
national staff. This continued during implementation and the six monthly report prepared for the October
2000 sector implementation progress review was fully prepared by staff of the MOES. There is no doubt
that this "learning by doing" process has resulted in considerable capacity building. Similarly, the training
of district and school level officials to help them deal with the new tasks of managing increased capitation
grants, SFGs and textbook selection at the school level have created new capacities and established a new
sense of responsibility and commitment to education. The start-up difficulties were considerable, the
progress to date is uneven, but there is no doubt that the changes that have occurred in the way education in
Uganda is financed and managed provide a much stronger institutional base than in 1996 for dealing with
the issues of education development.
At the same time challenges remain. The budget support strategy meant that national procedures would
govern procurement, accounting and auditing of program expenditures. Accounting and auditing were
central issues in the 1999 and 2000 implementation reviews. After a detailed study and review of policy an
agreement was reached on a set of procedures that satisfies both the government and the external financiers.
On the other hand procurement issues continue to slow down implementation. Procurement of textbooks
and computers suffered long delays during a review by the international firm advising GOU on
procurement (SWIPCO). Following a recent country procurement review by the Bank improvements in
this area are under consideration.
ESAC thus helped to change the way resources are channeled to the sector and within it. The impact of the
change in processes was reinforced by strong donor coordination, while the partnership with various
stakeholders has been strengthened particularly through the six-monthly Review process. Interministerial
coordination was introduced on teacher recruitment, deployment and payroll access, leading to more timely
payment of teachers. An institutional framework to deliver in-service teacher training on a large scale has
been put in place, to train untrained teachers as well as provide continuous professional development for
teaching staff.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Continued good macro-economic performance in the second half of the 1 990s and increased international
support for debt relief program created the financial space that allowed Uganda to allocate significant
additional resources to primary education. First the government budget in relation to GDP increased from
about 11% in 1997/98 to 20% in 1999/2000. Second the share of the primary education in the budget
increased from 15% to about 20%. Moreover international support -much of it allocated to poverty
reduction programs- tumed out to be significant, and primary education took a lions share of almost 70%
of the Poverty Action Fund in FY 1999/00.
This was especially important as the demand for education exceeded all expectations. Projections at the
time of ESAC appraisal in 1997 appear to assume that a large number of the overage children, and
possibly even school-age children, enrolled in schools with overcrowded classes, an extreme shortage of
classrooms and books, would soon drop-out. In fact the social demand for education which had been
- 16 -



constrained for a long time by high private cost, turned out to be much stronger than anybody had
expected. And that strong social demand has been sustained for several years in spite of the often limited
instructional effectiveness in schools deprived of even the barest minimum of quality inputs. This suggests
that from the perspective of many parents even a little bit of education is better than none at all. There are,
however, some indications that students and parents may be having second thoughts. Recent survey
evidence suggests that -with considerable seasonal variations-- actual attendance on any given school day
may be 20%-30% lower than the official enrollment. Moreover the cohort that is now reaching P3 has
been reduced in size from 1.9 million to 1.6 million, possibly suggesting significant drop-out.
Unfortunately reliable and systematic data on attendance, repetition and drop-out will not be available until
the EMIS is fully operational. But quite clearly improving the quality of instruction and continued efforts
to sustain social demand will be necessary to safeguard the progress that has been realized.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The achievements realized so far clearly reflect the deep and continuing commitment of Uganda's political
leaders to the UPE policy. This political leadership has sustained the commitment of communities, local
leaders and civil servants to UPE since 1997. At the same time there is a readiness to recognize the
problems created by the policy and tackle the implementation challenges - in pragmatic and innovative
ways. The commitment to UPE extends beyond the Ministry of Education and Sports. The Ministry of
Finance has been ready to allocate the budget resources necessary to support UPE and include them as a
key element in its poverty eradication action program. The Ministry of Public Service has played a key
role in the improvement of the management of the education payroll and is now making every effort to
streamline the teacher recruitment procedures.
Yet, in several instances cumbersome administrative procedures slowed the response to emerging
challenges and delayed on occasion the implementation of urgently needed action. The involvement of four
Ministries added considerable administrative complexities, as a result cleaning up of the payroll, the
clearance of arrears and recruiting new teachers, and adding them to the payroll took much longer than
anticipated. Delays in reaching agreement on suitable materials for the lower grades, slow release and
under allocation against the instructional materials budget delayed procurement of textbooks, while lengthy
bureaucratic procurement procedures delayed procurement of computers required to operationalize the
Education Management Infornation System.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
MOES took the lead in bringing together six major external financing agencies (DFID, Danida, EU,
Ireland, USAID and the World Bank) around a coherent sector program (ESIP) which has served as a
framework for the implementation of a sectorwide approach to education development as well as a shift
from project support to general or earmarked (to primary education) budget support. The six-monthly joint
review missions have provided a platform for the review of implementation progress of ESAC and other
externally supported programs, policy discussions and professional dialogue. This clearly created a form
of partnership for education development that is rare in Africa, but which has played an important role in
creating a much more coherent program of external assistance to education.
The success of this partnership was helped by the seriousness with which MOES accepted the undertakings
that were agreed and by the flexibility of the extemal partners who accepted that on occasion their demands
were unrealistic and impossible to implement in the agreed time frame.
On the other hand progress towards the UPE goals and the anticipated ESAC outcomes was adversely
affected by a perhaps too narrow initial focus on financial and management issues -especially those relating
to the teacher payroll and arrears clearance- and the relative neglect of the objective of protecting the level
- 17 -



of quality inputs (teachers, textbooks, classrooms). Moreover the absence of reliable baseline data, and the
delays in establishing the EMIS hampered the identification of emerging implementation issues, data based
policy dialogue and the design and expeditious implementation of remedial action. The absence of a long
term sector financial projection model and policy framework, meant that most policy discussion took place
in the context of the three year MTBF -with a much too short time perspective for education policy.
Finally preparing a far reaching and potentially costly reform of the primary curriculum -with controversial
aspects such a significant increase in the number of subjects and the introduction across the board of
practical activities - may have detracted attention from the more immediate -but perhaps less glamorous-
challenge of ensuring the availability of basic quality inputs.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
As explained earlier, ESAC was designed to disburse against the implementation of policy measures or the
achievement of output indicators rather than specific education expenditures (see Annex 9). It is not
possible, therefore, to allocate the credit/grant proceeds to the individual components of the operation. The
original disbursement plan provided for three tranches to be released in Fiscal Years 1997/98, 1998/99 and
1999/00 respectively. The first two tranches, although released with a slight delay, were still within the
expected FYs, whereas the third tranche was held up longer and released at the beginning of FY 00/01.
The third tranche required the World Bank's Board of Executive Directors to waive one of the nine
conditions for release (that all the primary teachers active in government-aided schools be on the payroll).
At the time of the expected release, May 2000, a survey found that 14% of the active primary teaching
staff were not on the Government payroll, out of which half were being paid by the School Management
Committees. After a further delay caused by questioning the Government's decision to purchase a
Presidential jet, the waiver was eventually approved by the Board, and the tranche disbursed in August
2000, on the basis of the Government's submission of a credible plan to resolve the issue.
The general budget support was provided with the understanding that the government would use the budget
space created by it to increase expenditure on primary education. Indeed, the resources allocated to
primary education have more than doubled since the UPE inception, and the primary education share of the
total discretionary recurrent allocation went from 16.4% in 1996/97 to 21% in 1999/2000 (see Annex 2).
In fact external support to education has been so large that GOU's additional expenditures (i.e. increase in
total expenditures on primary education minus increase in external resources more or less tightly earmarked
for primary education) in real terms declined during the ESAC implementation period.
MOES and MOFPED worked together to provide the teamn with budget figures revealing both the release
out-turns (approved budget allocations MOFPED transferred to MOES or the districts) and the expenditure
out-turns (MOES use of resources transferred by MOFPED) by level of education. GOU has been a
relatively efficient financial manager, making allocated funds generally available and minimizing the
allocation vs. expenditure gap (see Annex 2). A notable exception has been the teacher wage bill release
out-turn, that suffered from the Government's inability to recruit as many teachers as the establishment (on
which the budget allocation is based) allowed in both FY 98/99 and 99/00, as well as the fact that not all
the teachers recruited were on the payroll. The discrepancy has ranged around 7%. Furthermore in
1999/00 the release out-turn for the instructional materials recurrent allocation was 80%. Note that in
1998/99 the expenditure out-turn share of primary education in the total discretionary recurrent budget
(I 8.8% vs. the 19.5% stated by the policy matrix) is mainly due to higher than budgeted total discretionary
recurrent out-turn rather than to an underperformance in primary education spending. MOES' absorptive
capacity has been perfect in all the three years.
- 18-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The prospects for sustainability are high. Government remains as committed as ever to the goals of UPE.
Government and the external partners have developed a sectorwide approach to continue their support for
the UPE program and the development of the other parts of the system. The PRSC will be the vehicle
through which IDA will continue to provide budget support for the development of the sector. The joint
implementation review mechanism will provide a platform for continued policy dialogue. The institutional
reforms and the capacity building programs that have been started in the past three years are expected to be
continued and further build capacity and strengthen key sector institutions. Finally, GOU's commitment to
primary education is reflected in the share of Govermment's own resources in the total budget for the
subsector increasing from 20% in 1997/98 to about 65% in 2000/01 (see Annex 2).
While it is true that external aid in support of primary education has been about 70% of the allocated
primary education budget in the past four fiscal years, this may be more reflective of donor aid priorities
than of a lack of government commitment to primary education. About 80% of the external aid is in the
form of budget support, not disbursed against specific sector expenditures in the case of IDA and rather
generally earmarked in the case of other external financiers. As long as the level of total external aid to
Uganda remains at its current level this should not be a problem since the foreign exchange requirements of
the sector are relatively small and national resources can be easily reallocated as donor sector priorities
evolve. A significant reduction in aid levels would of course impact on the total budget situation including
the education sector.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
ESAC is completely embedded in the government budget and all funds are included in the MTBF. It is
already a regular operation. But there are major challenges that remain to be addressed, if input ratios
consistent with minimally effective operation at the school level are to be achieved. Ultimately the success
of ESAC will be determined by the extent which in the next five years:
*   key input ratios can be reduced and primary schooling can be delivered under reasonable
conditions;
* an effective long term financial and policy framework for the sector based on reliable data can be
developed as a guide towards short and medium term policy making;
* institutional constraints on program delivery, monitoring and evaluation can be overcome;
* partnerships with NGOs and the private sector can be strengthened.
This will require vigorous action to:
* ensure an adequate supply and effective utilization of teachers, instructional materials and
classrooms;
* operationalize EMIS and develop a financial projection model as a basis for long term policy
development and updating of ESIP;
* establish an effective mechanism for improved progress reporting, and performance monitoring;
* sustain capacity building effort especially in policy analysis and program monitoring and
evaluation;
* ensure that the TDMS to will be able to provide continuous support training and professional
development opportunities for all teachers, administrators and community members;
* rethink the approach to double shifting and multi-grade teaching to ensure optimal deployment of
teachers between and within schools;
* take full advantage of the very strong partnership that has been established with the external
financing agencies by developing mechanisms to enhance the professional inputs into the policy
dialogue and to deal with differences of opinion.
- 19 -



Much of this agenda is being addressed as part of the preparation for the follow-up support through PRSC
and the continuing sectorwide program implementation reviews. ESAC remains work in progress but the
prospects for eventual success are good.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Identification. Bank performance at identification is rated highly satisfactory. The Bank's expeditious
response to provide resources to enable Government to deal with the tremendous pressure created by the
unanticipated dramatic increase in enrollment, was commendable. The Credit was fully consistent with the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy of supporting the Government's poverty eradication efforts.
Preparation. Bank performance at preparation is rated highly satisfactory. The operation was designed
in close collaboration with the Govermment counterparts, allowing the Goverrnent to take the lead in
preparation of technical papers. This broadened support for and understanding of the reforns and
challenges involved in implementation of UPE within MOES and MOF. With support from the Social
Development Specialist at the Country Office, the Bank supported a Beneficiary Assessment, which helped
to focus the communication strategy for UPE policy. The choice of lending instrument was innovative,
effective in responding to the situation at hand, commensurate with the size of the challenge, helped to
provide resources in a timely manner, while allowing for Government the flexibility to use funds on all
priority areas, including recurrent costs. Donors also agree that budget support is the only way to
strengthen Government capacity to plan and manage such a policy with wide ranging reforms and to enable
the sector to be more focused on the priorities.
The deliberate and systematic consultation with other donors during preparation was exemplary, some even
participated in negotiations as observers. This helped to provide assurance to those donors who initially
feared that the Bank would try to impose an agenda of excessive fiscal restraint. Close collaboration with
the IMF (particularly the ESAF team) and the Bank's macro-economic team at the time of appraisal helped
to ensure that the program is anchored within a strong macro-economic framework and that resources
necessary to implement the agreed policies would be allocated to the sector. Negotiations in the field
helped to ensure that all stakeholders involved in implementing the actions in the matrix were involved.
This facilitated implementation. The underestimation of the implementation complexities in some of the
critical issues like payroll management and a rather limited view of the full range actions required to
achieve targets are not sufficient to detract from a highly satisfactory rating.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance at supervision was satisfactory. Bank staff at the Country Office regularly monitored
implementation progress through a National Committee for Management of the Primary Education Reform
Program, and later through the Education Sector Coordination Committee, ESCC, and made regular
reports. Over and above these mechanisms, joint Six Monthly Sector Reviews, were undertaken. This
joint review mechanism has provided an effective instrument to discuss implementation progress and policy
issues related to ESAC, the Primary Education Reform Program in the context of the UPE program,
support provided by other donors, as well as enhancing the skill mix. The presence of an experienced local
staff member enhanced the effectiveness of the Bank participation in the Education Funding Agencies
Group, and to assure quality and tiinely advice on agreed actions. It also made implementation less of a
bi-annual event and more of an on-going process. Bank managers took keen interest, helped reinforce the
- 20 -



efforts of Country Office staff and made available supervision budgets adequate to closely follow the
supervision plan laid out in the MOP. Yet, several issues especially related to the efficiency of resource
use (double-shifting), protection of quality inputs (textbooks, class size and teacher deployment), the
establishment of a data base for monitoring key performance indicators and the development of a longer
term financial and policy framework may have been focused on earlier and with more vigor.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
While not perfect, the Bank perfonnance can be rated as highly satisfactory. The Bank's expeditious
response to an emerging crisis in the sector, choice of innovative lending instrument, effective response to
the situation at hand, strong coordination with other donors and stakeholders, at all stages, quality policy
advice given as and when needed, were exemplary. On the other hand, the response to emerging quality
issues took time to develop, the data base for monitoring implementation remains weak, and progress in
developing a long term financial plan and updating ESIP has been less than anticipated. It is very
encouraging that these issues are now on the top of the agenda for policy discussions and that action plans
for addressing them have been agreed. This justifies an overall highly satisfactory rating.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
At preparation, Government teams prepared the technical papers supporting the policy matrix and
identified key issues requiring urgent attention. Government ownership of the ESAC agenda was
exemplary and the preparation process was highly collaborative. Its leadership in designing the necessary
policy reforms and its readiness to formally adopt those justifies a highly satisfactory rating, even though
their impact fell short of achieving the desired targets.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government in collaboration with all stakeholders continued to develop a sector program to address issues
in the medium term. Through preparation and implementation of the Credit, Government maintained an
open and constructive dialogue on the program, being proactive to address issues as they arose.
Throughout implementation Uganda's economy continued to perform well, with inflation remaining
subdued, extemal position strong, maintained the fiscal deficit target while substantially increasing
expenditures on social sectors. Government readiness to allocate resources above the projected and agreed
levels, a major factor in stemming the deterioration in key input indicators, was commendable.
Government implementation performance is therefore rated highly satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
All conditions for tranche release were met with the exception of the condition of all teachers in
Government-aided primary schools being on the payroll, for which a waiver was granted. Reforms started
under the Primary Education Reform Program like the Teacher Development and Management System
helped to put in place a credible system for teacher development, through which improved leaming methods
were introduced to enable teachers to cope with large numbers of children. Mobilizing parents and other
stakeholders to play their role was a critical component of the implementation strategy, which helped to
keep the enrollment on the rise and to contain drop out rates. Management of the ongoing World Bank
supported Primary Education and Teacher Development Project, PETDP, improved, bringing the
implementation progress back on track and leading to subsequent upgrading of the project from
Unsatisfactory to Satisfactory rating. However, clearing of teachers arrears took longer than envisaged,
partly arising out of unforeseen additional arrears that neither Govemment nor IDA were aware of at the
- 21 -



time of Credit approval, this reflecting the level of availability of data at the time of preparation. The
curriculum reform process detracted attention from urgent issues at hand and the outcome remains
controversial. Follow up on some other issues like doubleshift, multi-grade, ensuring an operational EMIS
is in place was also not adequate to achieve the results in these areas. The Implementing Agency
performance is therefore rated as satisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory, especially when viewed against the upsurge of enrollment
which imposed high demands on the scarce capacity for leading and managing the sector. Through
preparation and implementation of the Credit, Government maintained an open and constructive dialogue
on the program, being proactive to address issues as they arose. However, procurement issues slowed
down implementation of key components. Moreover, the distractions caused by the curriculum reform
could have been avoided, more and earlier attention may have been given to quality and long term
sustainability issues and more intensive efforts could have been made to ensure a solid data base for
remedial action and policy dialogue. But the responsibility for this omission is shared by the Bank and
should not detract from the recognition of the fully satisfactory level of the Borrower's performance.
_______         aink and H iorwe Pi      nce
Identification  Preparation  Supervision/   Overall
l  |         | Implement.
Bank              Highly      Highly    Satisfactory   Highly
____________  Satisfactory   Satisfactory  _________  Satisfactory
Borrower           n.a.       Highly    Satisfactory   Satisfactory
Satisfactory
8. Lessons Learned
The ESAC experience supporting the UPE programs contains several important lessons for the design of
follow-up operations in Uganda. There are also important lessons for other countries contemplating similar
reforms and for the design of Bank operations supporting such reforms. This is especially relevant as the
recently issued Africa education sector strategy paper proposes that the Bank's education sector assistance
be increasingly delivered though sectorwide approaches and budget support. It is important to realize,
however, that the transferability of the Uganda experience may be limited. Several unusually favorable
conditions were in place: a government with a deep and long term political commitment to the education
sector, an experienced Bank teamn that was ready to take risks and a donor community that was ready to
join forces around a national program. The main lessons are summarized below.
Budget support can be an effective instrument to support accelerated education development. It helps
overcome the recurrent cost - especially teacher's salary -constraints that can undermine the quality of
instruction when enrollment grows rapidly. In ESAC it moved the interaction between GOU and the Bank
away from disputes on details of technical decisions (such as the "thickness of the roofing sheets", to quote
a senior Bank official) to key issues of sector policy. At the same time it is important to ensure that
national procedures for financial management, auditing and procurement meet the usual standards of
economy and efficiency and are addressed early. But perhaps the most critical ingredient of effective use of
the budget support strategy is ensuring that tranche release conditions are explicitly linked to agreements
on sector policy that are (i) framed in a robust budget framework, in that allocations are credible, and hard
- 22 -



global budget constraint, dictated by the macro framework, that determines the kind of focus and discipline
ESAC benefited from, (ii) grounded in a long term sector policy and financial plan, (iii) consistent with the
PRSP performance targets, and (iv) incorporated in the medium-term budget framework.
Strong and broad government ownership is key. Strong top political commitment in Uganda translated
itself into commitment throughout government. The Ministry of Finance viewed UPE as the highest
priority in the Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) and protected the necessary budgetary allocations.
The Ministers of Finance and Education both signed-off on the Letter of Development Policy. The support
of Ministries of Public Service and Local government turned out to be crucial in resolving issues of teacher
recruitment, deployment ad payroll managemnent. The ESAC experience suggests that where a basic
national capacity for planning and implementation is in place, clear evidence of strong political and
technical support for the program can justify taking the risk to proceed with an operation that is not
prepared up to the usual Bank standards, especially when confronted with an "education emergency"
situation. National ownership will be enhanced when national staff rather than consultants take
responsibility for program preparation and policy development. Often this will result initially in slower
preparation progress or less polished documents and more uneven quality of analysis. But the ESAC
experience suggests that the resulting commitment to the program can make up for these gaps in
preparation. When there is agreement on the policy goals more detailed planning does not necessarily
result in better implementation. Responsiveness and flexibility maybe more important. But ownership
needs to be broad to be effective.
The sector wide approach (SWAP) holds considerable promise. The effectiveness of external
assistance will be improved when external financing agencies and governments work together within an
agreed sector policy framework and with joint mechanisms for program preparation and implementation
review. When combined with budget support a sector wide approach can greatly improve the coherence
and transparency of external assistance, reduce the management burden on the recipient government and
enhance the quality of the policy dialogue. The experience of ESAC where the donor community came
together around a national sector development program (ESIP) prepared by the government in a highly
participatory way and a process was established for joint progress review and policy dialogue is an
example of good practice that other countries should consider. This experience in the education sector in
Uganda confirms several of the findings of a recent review of SWAPs in Health and Education in the
Africa region.
Focus on key issues is essential. There are a limited number of issues that managers can deal with
simultaneously. Sequencing of reforms is of particular importance as external assistance and development
programs are increasingly developed through SWAPs. In Uganda, it was probably not wise to proceed
with a far-reaching curriculum reform at the same time as dealing with the implementation of the UPE
program. This affected the pace of textbook procurement and distracted the focus of policy dialogue from
other key issues. Similarly, it was probably unrealistic to expect much effort to experiment innovations
such as multi-grade- at a time when managing the UPE enrollment bulge was the top priority for the
MOES.
Policy development must be a continuous process. It should continue during implementation, since the
major policy reforms are always more difficult and take always more time to carry out than is anticipated.
Unexpected events are likely to happen. The four children per family limit for free schooling was
impossible to implement. Enrollment projections prepared for ESAC appraisal in 1997 assumed that a
large number of the overage students who had enrolled would drop out before the start of the next school
year. That did not happen. Clearing teachers salary arrears, recruitment of teachers and ensuring their
timely payment turned out to be much more complex than had been anticipated. Cumbersome procedures
in the national procurement agency caused delays in the purchase of textbooks and computers for the
- 23 -



EMIS. Unexpected depreciation of the Ugandan currency curtailed the available resources for textbooks.
ESAC experience in this regard is consistent with that of many other operations in the Africa region and
beyond: the most demanding reforms in the education sector are those that concern (i) human resource and
staffing issues; and (ii) textbooks and instructional materials. Yet these are often critical and successful
implementation will usually require extra management attention, resources and time.
The SWAP that was developed during the implementation of ESAC established the mechanisms for a
continuous policy discussions between involving all partners involved in the UPE program. But the paucity
of reliable and timely data made the process more cumbersome and less effective than it could have been.
A well-designed long term (10 year) financial projection model, providing a basis for medium term
expenditure estimates and annual budget allocations, is essential to formulate and make progress towards
realistic policy goals. In ESAC the absence of reliable baseline data and a coherent longer-term financially
sustainable policy framework has hampered the policy dialogue and delayed policy responses. Moreover,
establishing a credible set of baseline data to measure progress against must be a priority during
preparation. Similarly a strategy and an action plan for developing a national capacity for monitoring and
evaluation should be agreed during appraisal. Continuous policy dialogue and flexible implementation
should be "evidence driven" and can only be done effectively when credible information is available without
much delay.
Decentralization, community involvement and communication are key elements of large-scale
education reforms. Inplementation of large-scale reforms requires usually the decentralization (more
accurately described as deconcentration) of a large number of tasks and responsibilities that were
previously carried out at the national level to districts and schools. This, in turn, requires reorganizing
financial flows through the system as well as a redefinition of accountabilities. In addition major efforts
are required to inform individual stakeholders - parents, community leaders, local and national politicians
and education administrators at all levels- as well as NGOs, including teachers unions and charitable
organizations. Decentralization and public information were essential elements for the success of the
Ugandan UPE program. Increased school level autonomy and measures to protect the resource flows to the
schools helped create a cost structure that has the potential to ensure adequate funding for instructional
materials and priority activities identified by school personnel and parents. A successful communication
strategy helped stimulate enrollment beyond expectations and later helped clarify the role and responsibility
of the state and parents for primary schooling. Conversely, the efforts to inform and educate teachers and
parents on the double-shift strategy were inadequate and contributed to its tacit rejection.
An important lesson from ESAC is that communities can effectively take responsibility for school
development when adequate support and training is available. But clearly, this is a learning process for all
parties involved. The community managed classroom construction program resulted in the construction of
more classrooms in rural areas than would have been feasible through contractor led strategies and at half
the cost. Technical support and training were essential in this process. In other areas progress has been
slower. The school based selection of textbooks has not yet resulted in significant improvements in
textbook availability. It is not clear that the decisions of SMCs on resource allocation were always
educationally optimal. This suggests that it is important to (i) keep policies and procedures simple and
transparent so that they can be easily understood at the school level; (ii) establish a gradual process of
increased involvement and responsibility; and (iii) ensure the availability of adequate technical support and
training.
"Big Bang" policies for Universal Primary Education will almost inevitably result in severe
disruptions of the functioning of the system and are likely to jeopardize the quality of instructionL The
Ugandan system will take many years to recover from the impact of the UPE decision. A more gradual
approach -e.g declaring free primary education beginning with 6 and 7 years old enrolling for the first time
- 24 -



in grade one- may have avoided some of the most serious problems. In particular it would have allowed
more time to make available the basic instructional inputs -knowledgeable teachers, books and classrooms-
and strengthen the capacity of local administrators and communities to take on new responsibilities.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Annex 10 contains the executive summary of the Borrower's evaluation report. The following is a
summary of the ratings it contains:
Overal Outcome: Satisfactory
Components
Increase Resources Available to UPE: Highly Satisfactory
Increase Efficiency in the Use of Resources: Modest
Protect Quality of Teaching and Learning: Modest
Strengthen Sector Management: Satisfactory
Project at Risk at any time: No
Quality at entry: Highly Satisfactory
Sustainability: Sustainable (risk rating not given)
Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory
Borrower Performance: Satisfactory
Impact on:
Sector Policies: Substantial
Public Sector Management: Substantial
Physical: Modest
Gender: Substantial
(b) Cofinanciers:
Donor support for ESAC was widespread and uniform. The operation was risky, but was successful in
helping the govemment effectively address several key issues. The Bank's leadership and readiness to
work in partnership encouraged several agencies to increase budget support to the sector. All major donors
are now consistently moving the same way as the Bank by providing non-earmarked budget support.
Budget support is appreciated as the best way of providing support to the sector, and as a way of
strengthening Government capacity to plan. With the institutional architecture now in place, donor
coordination has considerably improved and Government transaction costs greatly reduced from the past
levels. All donors recognize the value of the joint review mechanism which has allowed to focus dialogue
and support on critical challenges: teachers, classrooms, instructional materials. This kind of partnership
would have been difficult to establish and operate in an environment dominated by project aid. The ICR
team met with the donors actively engaged in Education in Uganda. They seem to perceive the World Bank
as being at the forefront of education reform as well as an equal player, though at times with a louder
voice.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n.a.
10. Additional Information
- 25 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
tefleatxorlM.t4                    0Proc4 in last PSR                    ActuaLaftet Ettmst,
la. Allocate at least 19.5% of the recurrent  la. In the current financial year, and for the  la. The FY99/00 budget estimates approved
budget, excluding statutory and interest  next three years, more than 20% of the total  by MOFPED indicate that primary educabon
payments, to primary educabon in FY98/99, discretionary recurrent budget has been  received 21% of the total discrebonary
and 17.5% in FY99100.                 allocated to primary education.       govemment recurrent expenditures. This
exceeds the minimum target set at 17.5%.
1b. Maintain 1997 enrollment levels (5.3 m. 1b. 6.0 m. of children enrolled in govt-aided  lb. 6.1 m. of children enrolled in govt-aided
in govemment-aided schools)           schools .                             schools.
2. Increase efficiency in use of resources:  2. Implementaton of double-shifting remains 2. Beside the evaluation report on the
better ublization of teachers (double-shiftng  slow due to a limited number of schools  double-shifting pilots (indicating widespread
implemented and multigrade policy     being willing to paricipate in the pilot and the dissatisfaction with this mode), new
developed) and elimination of excess supply  initial resistance within the MPS to offer    informaton on the households attitude to this
of teachers.                         incentives for teachers. A plan and    teaching method is now available (indicating
comprehensive guidelines for the expansion  a narrow majority in favor of double-shifting).
of double-shift acivities during the 2001  Govemment is devising a double-shifting
school year is being prepared. Piloting of    strategy on the basis of this new input. A
multi-grade is on-going in the districts of    25% incentive for sequental teaching has
Kalangala and in Sembabule. To improve    been budgeted for in the next three years'
efficient production of teachers, the number  allocations for primary education.
of teachers' colleges has been reduced from  Mulgrade teaching pilots will be expanded
over 94 to 45.                        geographically and extended to large
Teachers in excess of their school's  classes. The Teacher Development
establishment were terminated in 1999.  Management System is fully operative
nationwide for both in-service upgrading and
training.
3. Protect Quality of Inputs.         3a. The information on PITB ratios was not  3a. The latest estimate is of a P/TB rato of
yet available.                        5:1 for English and 8:1 for Science. In spite
3a. 90% of schools reaching pupil/textbook                                  of the target shortfall, the prospects are
(PITB) ratio 1:3 for math and English                                       good: at the current exchange rate, the
textbooks by December 31, 2000.                                             allocations for instructional materials in the
next three years amount to about US$ 40
million, almost four times the allocations of
the past two FYs.
3b. Pupil/teacher (P/T) ratio to 1:55 by 2000. 3b. P/T ratio higher than 60:1.  3b. If the number of teachers on the payroll
is considered, the P/T ratio in 2000 is about
65:1. The number of teachers in service in
govemment-aided schools reported in the
latest Quick counts though, is higher and
would amount to a P/T ratio of about 60:1 in
the 2000 academic year. There are still
significant delays in filling vacant teacher
positions. The Head of the Public Service is
coordinating efforts by the 4 Ministries
(Education, Finance and Local Govemment)
to speed up the process. A plan for
recruitment of 15,000 secondary school
graduates to teach and be trained in service
has been formulated.
-26 -



3c. Ensure effective and sustainable  3c. MOES is implementing nationwide the   3c. Provided funds flow steadily and
classroom construction.               community based School Facilites Grant    guidelines are clear (both an inital obstade,
(SFG) approach for classroom constructon. now solved), the SFG approach to classroom
construction can deliver speedy construction,
high community involvement, an infusion of
money to local areas, and the greater
likelihood of regular maintenance in the
future. In FY1999/2000, 8,000 classrooms
were either completed or constructed, and
estimates of absorptive capacity (based on
the experience in eight poor districts in the
pilot phase ) indicate that up to 50 percent
more classrooms per year could be built
were financing available. If these additional
allocations were provided, this could be used
to build and/or complete about 40,000
additional classrooms by 2005, bringing the
pupil-classroom ratio down from 120:1 in
2000 to approximately 70:1.
4. Strengthen Sector Management.      4a. No mention.                       4a. Inter-ministerial coordination greatly
4a. Inter-ministerial coordination (Ministries                              improved.
of Education, Finance, Public Service and
Local Govemment).
4b. Transparency in use of funds.     4b. Updated information not available yet.  4b. From the survey carried out in 2000, it
appears 90% of the conditional (capitation)
grants transferred to the districts by
MOFPED are reaching the schools, as
opposed to 28% in 1996. There is still some
concem over the management of funds at
the school level, but the accountability
guidelines are followed in the great majority
of the districts.
4c. School mapping.                   4c. No mention.                       4c. School mapping and educaton
development planning completed nationwide.
4d. EMIS in place.                    4d. EMIS being installed and training  4d. EMIS not operational yet.
provided in more than 40 districts. Delays in
operationalizing nationwide are expected.
4e. All actve teachers on payroll and pald   4e. 86% of active teachers on payroll. Some 4e. About 95% of active teachers on payroll.
tmely.                                of them not paid timely.              Some of them not paid timely.
Output Indicators:
lndlc#torMatrtx                    Prodced In last PSR                   ActualLatest Estimat
End of project
- 27 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
PRIMARY EDUCATION BUDGET, ALLOCATIONS VS. EXPENDITURE OUT-TURNS AND EXTERNAL AID
(U Sh bill.)
96/97         97/98              98/99             99/00             00/01
Allocation Allocation Out-turn Allocation Out-turn Allocation Out-turn Allocation
I    (draft)
Total Recurrent Budget                95.7      108.7    120.36    144.95   143.04    172.72    159.54    213.7
olw
Teachers Salabes   67.1     81.5    89.32       100     96.18    114.31     103.1      141.9
Teachers Salaries Arrears    0      0         0        0       14.24      0        7.6         0
Instructional Materials   n.a.   0        0       4.32      4.32     4.97      3.78        11
Transfers to Districts   28.6   22      26.22      30      31.45    38.41     38.53      40.6
Total Development Budget              35.1      10.5    10.41      19.16    42.75    63.06      58.65      87.5
Instructional Materials   n.a.  5.4      5.4      1.76      9.88     10.25     10.25      13.6
Classroom Construction/Rehab.   n.a.    1.72     1.54      9.69     25.05    35.24     33.67      50.2
Total Primary Education Budget (1)   130.8      118.67    130.77    164.11    185.8    235.78    218.19    301.2
Total Donor Aid to Primary Education            45A7              145.48             176.05               96.23
Project Aid   n.a.    36.27     n.a.     38.45     n.a.     30.54      n.a.      33.23
Budgetsupport   n.a.       9.2    T86.25    107.03    101.05    145.51    57.66       63
Memorandum Items
Prmary Enrollment (mill.)(3)   4.2            5.55               5.85                 6      6.3 (est)
Prim. Recurrent Expend./Student, real(4)  22,786  17,255   19,112   23,688    23,375    27,776    25,659  32,337
Prim. Recurrent Expend./GDP (%)   1.59    1.53     1.69      1.84     1.81      2.01      1.86       2.2
Prm. Recurrent Expend./  16.4     16.5      17.9     20.3      18.8     20.9      19.7       21.3
Total GOU Recurr. (%)I
(1) Includes External Aid
(2) Project Aid data source: ESAC MOP, Education Sector Review Report, October 2000, and Medium Term Expenditure Framework,
1999/00-2002/03. Budget Support data source: Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development. For 2000/01 total budget support
data were not available. The amount indicated is ESAC's delayed third tranche.
(3) Average of the overlapping school years
(4) Using the GDP deflator
- 28 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
The economic analysis for this operation considered the returns to education from two points of view:
1) Social and Private Direct Economic Retums.
These returns were computed using the 1992 Integrated Household Survey. The private rate of
return for completing primary education was found to be 18.3% (slightly higher for females than males),
while the social rate of return was 15.7%.
Recent studies at the time of appraisal had reported on the effects of female education on fertility,
maternal and child mortality rates. The estimate magnitude of these positives externalities was used to
assess the impact of ESAC through its support of UPE. The exercise revealed that one additional year of
schooling for a girl is approximately associated with a 1:4 cost-benefit ratio. The ratio falls to 1:2 if the
benefits materialize with a 15-years lag.
A more in-depth analysis of the same data set (the 1992/93 Household Survey, HS), recently published,
confirms the private rate of return reported in Annex 3 (18%) when the same assumption on the
opportunity and direct costs of primary attendance is made. This recent work also decomposes the total
effect of schooling on productivity into increased earnings from labor reallocation and direct earnings
increase. The result is interesting in that as much as 40% of the rate of return might be due to switching
fiom farm to non-farming self-employment acfivities.
There does not seem to be updated information of the longer-term effects of education (on the children of
more educated females).
- 29 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count            Specialty                      Progress        Objective
Identification/Preparation
07/1997                     4   1 Education Specialist (TM), I
Operations Officer, I Social
Development Specialist, I (Abel
Ojoo, Financial Management
Specialist)
Appraisal/Negotiation
11/1997                    5   2 Education Specialists (of
(Appraisal)                     which I TM), I Economist,
1 Operations Officer, I
(Abel Ojoo, Financial
Management Specialist)
02/1998                     1   1 Education Specialist (TM)
(Negotiation)
Supervision
11/1998                     4   2 Education Specialists (of         S              HS
which I TM), I Economist,
I Operations Officer
04/1999                     4   1 Education Specialist (TM), I      S              HS
Economist, I Operations Officer,
I Research Analyst
10/1999                     5   2 Education Specialists (of which   S              HS
I TTL), 1 Economist, 1 Research
Analyst, I Budget Analyst
04/2000                     3   1 Education Specialist (TTL), 1     S              HS
Economist, I Operations Officer
10/2000                     2   1 Education Specialist (TTL), 1     S               S
Operations Officer
ICR
12/2000                    3    1 Education Specialist, I           S              HS
Economist, 1 Operations
Officer
- 30 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               58.6                       214.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                     5.8                        21.9
Supervision                              65.7                       190.7
ICR                                      15.4                        31.5
Total                                   145.5                       558.6
- 31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
M Macro policies                           OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
OSector Policies                           OH    OSU O M  ON  O NA
X Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Institutional Development                0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction                  * H  OSUOM  ON  O NA
El Gender                            *H OSUOM ON ONA
O Other (Please specify)             O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)                   O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Development Objective                                            HS
Components:
Improved Allocation of Resources                                 HS
Increased Efficiency in the Use ofResources                      S
Protecting Quality Inputs                                        MS
Strengthening Sector Man 2gement                                 S
HS=Highly Satisfactory; S=Satisfactory; MS=Marginally Satisfactory; U=Unsatisfactory; HU=Highly
Unsatisfactory.
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
Z Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
Z Supervision                                         OHS OS  OU  OHU
 Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
Z Preparation                                         OHS OS   O  U  O HU
X Government implementation performance               O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
X Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS  O u   O HU
E Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Title                                                                                 Date
issued
National Plan for the Expansion of TDMS Countrywide                                   n.a.
Regional Workshops, Mbarara, Mbale, Mityana, Lira:
Ministry of Education Proposal to Start an Information System Using the Available UPE Data  n.a.
Training Manual and Teaching Materials:                                                n.a./97
School Mapping and Education Micro Planning
Intensive Training Course-Report on Pilot in Kumi District:                         n.a./97
School Mapping and Education Micro Planning
Interim Review of UPE Implementation                                                  07/97
Dissemination Plan No. I in support of the Policy Matrix                              09/97
Accountancy Procedures for UPE Disbursements
Headcount of Educational Institutions in Uganda                                        10/97
Ministry of Education Circular:                                                        10/97
Guidelines for Transparency and Accountability for the Distribution of Conditional Grant
Funds for the UPE Programme to Grant-Aided Schools
Staff Establishment for Government Aided Primary Schools by District, County and Subcounty  12/97
Appraisal Mission: Aide-Memoire                                                    12/97
Textbook Policy for Establishing a Sustainable System of Textbook Production, Distribution  n.a./98
and Utilization
Technical Paper No. 2 in support of the Policy Matrix:                                01/98
Cost Effective Strategy for Classroom Construction
Technical Paper No. 3 in support of the Policy Matrix:                             01/98
Strategies for Increased Efficiency
Technical Paper No. 4 in support of the Policy Matrix:                             01/98
The Role of the Inspection
Technical Paper No. 5 in support of the Policy Matrix:                             01/98
Minimum National Standards
Technical Paper No. 6 in support of the Policy Matrix:                             01/98
UPE Policy
Technical Paper No. 8 in support of the Policy Matrix:                             01/98
Strategies to Increase Enrollment and Address Gender Inequalities
Guidelines No. 1 in support of the Policy Matrix:                                  01/98
Recruiting and Hiring Additional Teachers for UPE
Guidelines No. 2 in support of the Policy Matrix:                                  01/98
Roles and Responsibilities in Dealing with UPE
Guidelines No. 3 in support of the Policy Matrix:                                     01/98
Cost Effective Provision of Basic Learning Materials
02/98
Technical Paper No. I in support of the Policy Matrix:
Financial Implications of UPE
Dissemination Plan No. 2 in support of the Policy Matrix                              02/98
Dissemination of UPE Policy and Increasing Parental/Community Participation
Policy Paper (draft):                                                                 02/98
Measures to Increase Efficiency in the Primary Teaching Service
Terms of Reference:                                                                02/98
Education Development Planning in Uganda
ESAC - Memorandum of the President                                                     02/98
Negotiation Minutes                                                                    02/98
- 34 -



Report:                                                                             04/98
Stakeholders Consultation and Analysis on UPE
PSR                                                                                    06/98
Report:                                                                                08/98
Monitoring and Evaluating Accountability & Transparency of Schools and Districts for UPE
Funds
Aide-Memoire:                                                                          08/98
National Conference on UPE
Minutes:                                                                            08/98
Stakeholders Meeting on UPE
Minutes:                                                                            09/98
National Conference on UPE
PSR and Joint PETDP-ESAC Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire                               12/98
Joint PETDP-ESAC Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire                                   04/99
First Education Sector Joint Review, Report and Aide-Memoire                           04/99
PSR                                                                                 06/99
Recommendation for 2nd Tranche Release                                              06/99
Second Education Joint Review, Report and Aide-Memoire                              10/99
Uganda Participatory Poverty Assessment, first phase report                             10/99
PSR                                                                                 11/99
Third Education Sector Joint Review, Report and Aide-Memoire                            04/00
PSR                                                                                 05/00
Recommendation for 3rd Tranche Release                                                  08/00
Fourth Education Sector Joint Review, Report and Aide-Memoire                       10/00
PSR                                                                                     11/00
- 35 -



Additional Annex 8. Basic Primary Education Indicators
BASIC PRI MARY EDUCATION IN !CATORS
1997                1998                1999          .     2000
Enrollment (millions)*  5.3             5.8                 6.5                 6.8
a/w in Gov.-aided   5.3                 5.8                 5.9*                6.1
Schools                                           .
GER**               124%                134%                145%                147%
NER                 87%                 95%                 100%                n.a.
P1 ouoils           1.95                1.66           -   1.67                 1.41
Teachers            99.000              108.235             114.118             120.000
Teachers in Gov.-    84,150             99,000              97,000              102000
aided Schools
(Count)
Teacher             90,000              92,000              110,000             125,000
Establishment
Teachers On Payroll  73.357             85.451              87.245              94.255
Average annual      868,032             954,840             USh 1,002,576       USh 1,102,836
teacher salary (USh)
Teachers trained                               About 10,000 upgraded so far
under TDMS
Textbooks purchased  2.1                1.5                 1.2                 2.1
f4 core subj.). mill. ,
Average book price    $ 4.5             $ 5.5               $ 6                 $ 6
Stock of permanent,   25,400            28,400              34,000              51,000
complete
Classrooms.
Average Classroom    It is difficult to estimate what the average cost has been since the beginning of
Cost                UPE. For the future a common construction modality will be followed that
should lead to an average dassroom cost of $ 5,000 (including fumiture and
latrines),
TeachedPupit Ratio   56                 53                  60                  60
Teachers on         72                                                          65
Payroll/Pupil Ratio
Textbook/Pupil      9                   14                   5                   7
Ratio*...
Classroom/Pupil     184                 184                 172                 120
Ratio               _                   ___I_              I
Number of Schools                                           20                  4
piloting double-
shIfdna
Number of Schools                                                               5
Iilotina multiarade    __
% FducationlGDP     2.9%                3.3%                4.1%                4.3%
%                                                           30%                 31%
Education/Recurrent
Budget
% Primary/Tot.                          64%                 70%                 72%
Recurrent Education
% Primary/Recurrent                     20%                 21%                 22%
Budget
'These are the MOES official statistics from Censuses and Headcounts. Estimates derived from the 199912000
Household Survey indicate a substantially lower enrollment,
- Approximately 15% of the teachers and 10% of the pupils are in private schools. This is applied starting in 1999 as it
appears that before 1999 private schools were not accounted for,
- The GER in 1996 was 0.77 and the NER 0.54 without private schools, using the age distribution from the 1994
Monitoring Survey (assuming steady state pre-UPE conditions). The NERs in 1997-98 were calculated using 6-12 years
olds enrolment figures in the respective MOES Censuses. The 1999 NER was estimated using total enrollment figures
from the MOES Headcount and the age distribution of primary pupils estimated from the Household Survey.
Until 1999 the ratio was computed assuming a negligible stock at the beginning of UPE, and textbook life of three
.years. For 2000 the PIU provided the ratio.
The dsrooms are courted at the   l beinning of the year, exCept for 2D00.
- 36 -



Additional Annex 9. Policy Matrix
Uganda ESAC Policy Matrix
Objective         Action Taken           Actions to be Taken    Actions to be Taken    Outcomes by
Prior to Board Presentation    Prior to the Release of   Prior to the Release of   December 31,
February - 1998       Second Tranche - May   Third Tranche - May         2009
1999                   2000
1. Clarify   1. Education Strategic
UPE Policy   Investment Plan (ESIP)
approved by MOE following
consulation with donor
community
2. Design UPE dissemination  Dissemination activities   Continue dissemination  Wide
strategy with different    targeted at each group    effort and monitoring of understanding of
products aimed at districts    underway nationwide    results             respective roles
offices, head teachers,                                                   by parents,
teachers, and parents, with a  Provide IDA with copies  Provide IDA with copies schools,
plan for implementation    of dissemination        of dissemination       communities,
from March 1998            materials               materials              districts, Central
incorporating current                                                     Government, and
activities, and a budget                                                  donor
______________    __    community
II. Increase   1. The borrower has       Allocate to primary     Allocate to primary   Maintain 1997
Resources    included in the education   education recurrent     education recurrent   enrollment levels
Available to  sector financial projections a  budget at least 19.5  budget at least 17.5%
UPE          finance plan for the support  percent of the total  of total government
of UPE policy for FY97/98,   government recurrent    recurrent budget
FY98199, and FY99/00       budget (excluding       (excluding statutory
statutory and interest    and interest payments)
payments) in FY 98/99   in FY 99/00
2. Clarify in writing the role  Launch public campaign  Continue public   Sustained
of parents' monetary and   to encourage parent     campaign to encourage  parents
in-kind contribution in    participation as part of   parent participation as  understanding of
support of UPE as part of the  overall dissemination  part of overall     their role in
dissemination efforts      effort                  dissemination effort    supporting
primary
education
III. Increase  1. Complete draft policy  As a temporary         Implement policy for    Pupil teacher
Efficiency in  paper on options for double   measure, adopt double   1999 academic year    ratio of 1:55
the Use of    shifting including voluntary   shifting policy and  and furnish IDA with a
Public       participation and incentives  implement a           progress report on
Resources                                dissemination campaign  schools participating in
with an implementation   double shifting
plan, products and a
budget to promote it for
the 1999 school year
- 37 -



Complete policy on      Implement              Pupil teacher
multi-grade teaching    demonstrations sites for ratio of 1:55
with an implementation   multi-grade teaching in
plan for demonstration    at least two school in
sites in at least two   two districts and
districts              promote voluntary
participation
Complete a study on     Implement the action    Excess supply of
primary teacher supply   plan to prevent excess  teachers will be
and demand and          supply of teachers     reduced
approve an action plan
Government to decide on  Release progress report Ensure effective
best construction       on classroom           and sustainable
modality and pilot.     construction           classroom
Strengthen and                                 construction
consolidate the policy on
classroom construction
in which government,
local communities,
parents and donors
participate
IV. Protecting 1. Adopt policy           Allocate at least 2.8   Furnish to IDA         90 percent of
Quality of    recommendations on         percent of total primary  evidence that schools   schools reaching
Teaching and  provision, distribution, and    education recurrent  have received shipment at 1:3 ratio for
Learning     utilization of textbooks and    budget in FY98/99 to  of instructional      Math and
other instructional materials  instructional materials   materials based on a    English
that assures adequate choice                        random sample of total  textbooks
by schools                                          of at least 350 schools
selected from at least   70 percent of
four districts and in  schools reaching
FY99/00 allocate at    at 1:3 ratio for
least 2.8 percent of total social studies
primary education      and science
recurrent budget to    textbooks
instructional materials
2. Develop and approve a    Commence                                       Percent of
plan for the expansion of  implementation of the                           untrained
in-service teacher training to  expansion of phases IV                    teachers not
cover all districts         and V of TDMS                                  undergoing
training, on
payroll will be
lower than
pre-UPE levels
Increased supply
of refresher
course
-38 -



V.           1. Improve management of                                                  Improved
Strengthening teacher payroll through                                                  coordination
Sector       inter-ministerial working                                                 between Ministry
Management group by:                                                                   of Public Service,
Ministry of
a) Prepare financing plan to                                              Finance, and
clear teachers' arrears                                                  Ministry
Planning and
Economic
Development
b) Design and issue guidelines Action plan for updating  Provide evidence to  All active
to all districts and schools for the payroll implemented. IDA that all active  teachers on
recruitment, deployment and  All salary arrears paid   teachers on payroll are  payroll paid in a
payment of teachers in                             paid in a timely manner timely manner
academic year 1998 including
a staff establishment formula
and within the total allocation
for the wage bill for teachers
c) Finalize action plan to
update teacher payroll
including:
(i) the exclusion of ghost
teachers,
(ii) minimizing the number
of teachers added to the
payroll that are untrained;
and
(iii) giving priority to
experienced teachers (pre
UPE) for inclusion in the
payroll
- 39 -



2. Issue guidelines to districts  Implement a monitoring  Implement a monitoring Transparency in
and schools for accounting for system for the       system for the          use of resources
public funds consistent with   accountability of public  accountability of public
Government Accounting       funds allocated to      funds allocated to
Manual and Regulations and  districts and schools   districts and schools
prepare procedures          following the guidelines  following the guidelines
for transparency and    for transparency and
accountability already    accountability already
issued to schools      issued to schools
Furnish to IDA evidence  Furnish to IDA evidence
that the system is being   that the system is being
implemented based on    implemented based on
random sample of a total random sample of a
of at least 350 schools    total of at least 350
selected from at least    schools selected from at
four districts         least four districts
3. Design terms of reference   12 districts complete  Further 20 districts  Identification of
for educational development  educational development complete educational    physical
planning, including school    plans (including school   development plans   infrastructure
mapping, exercise to be     maps)                   (including school maps)  and human
completed by districts and                                                  resource needs
develop training manuals    Furnish to IDA
evaluative forms from
district staff trained
Design EMIS to include  Implementation of      EMIS in place
essential inputs and    EMIS in at least 20
outputs                 districts
Furnish to IDA sample
reports from EMIS
____________                                                  from each district
- 40 -



Additional Annex 10. Borrower's Evaluation. Executive Summary
Universal Primary Education (UPE)
0.    As a post -1996 Presidential Elections promise, the Government of Uganda (GOU) decided (in
1997) to introduce free primary school education (in Uganda) for up to four (4) Children per household.
1.    This far-sighted policy, eventually to lead to Universal Primary Education (UPE) as well as free
secondary education, had far-reaching immediate impact. The biggest of them was on enrolment which
instantly doubled, giving rise to a list of supply problems, including;
*      Teachers
*      Classrooms
*      Instructional materials
*      Quality assurance.
Education Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC)
2.    The Education Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC) (a multi-donor arrangement spearheaded by the
World Bank) was put in place, in 1998, to address the above "crisis". The ESAC was made up of a grant
of US$75 million and a credit of US$80 million.
3.    For the World Bank, roles under ESAC were two-fold;
Role                                  Performance Rating/Remarks
* Timely and effective disbursement of funds   *   Done through Budget Support
* HIGHLY SATISFACTORY
3 Monitoring implementation and progress of   *   Done through missions/reviews
ESAC                                  *   SATISFACTORY
4.    The Government of Uganda was supposed to implement the ESAC, broadly within the agreed
ESAC Policy Framework, with the following policy entry points.
-41 -



Policy Item                                      Performance/Rating/Remarks
*   Clarify UPE Policy                            *  SATISFACTORY
*    Increase resources available to UPE          *  HIGHLY SATISFACTORY
*   Increase efficiency in the use of public resources.   *  MODEST
*    Protect the quality of teaching and learning  *  MODEST
*    Strengthen sector management                 *  SATISFACTORY
*    Overall Rating                               *  SATISFACTORY
5.    The above policies are judged as generally sound and low-risk (despite the actual performance of
the GOU) as below:
Factor                  Judgement
3      Clarity                     YES
*      Realistic                   YES
*      Important                   YES
o      Demanding                   NO*
*      Complex                     NO
*      Risky                       NO
*      Responsive                  YES
Government of Uganda Achievement of Objectives and Output
6.    Policy clarification has generally been achieved, but is an on-going process. A significant area
that remains is dissemination of UPE strategies to all key stakeholders including: teachers, pupils, parents,
School Management Committees.
7.     On increasing funds available for UPE, GOU performance has been consistently good, viz over
20% of the total GOU Recurrent Expenditure was allocated to Primary School Education throughout, well
above the minimum target of 17.5%.
8.     Some utilization efficiencies were supposed to be realized through introduction of (a) double shift
teaching (b) multi-grade teaching Primary Schools in some districts in Uganda.
- 42 -



9.     However, after a needs assessment, the exercise was restricted to piloting double shift teaching in
forty-six (46) primary schools drawn from six (6) districts. Due to a number of difficulties mainly to do
with (a) adequacy of flows of extra funds (b) preference for early morning learning, at the time of reporting
the number of participating schools had dropped to four (4) only.
10.   Multi-grade teaching has been successfully tried in five (5) schools in one district (Kalangala) and
is to be extended to another four (4) schools in another district (Sembabule) and to be extended to
Karamoia region (districts of Moroto and Kotido) over the years 2002-2005.
11.   Both double shift teaching and multi-grade teaching were rather hurriedly piloted (as part of
ESAC). Overall, in the next phase, there will be need for:
(a)    detailed study of each scheme
(b)    proper participatory sensitization and planning
(c)    costed and structured implementation
(d)    close monitoring and evaluation
12.    Two of the facilitative objective of ESAC were;
(a)   to increase supply of teachers
(b)   to increase number of primary school classrooms
13.   At the beginning of ESAC (in 1998) the total number of teachers, in GOU grant- aided primary
schools, was estimated at about 89,000. The 2000 figure stood at an estimated about 117,000 against an
ESAC target of $125,000. This is a reasonably highly satisfactory performance indicator. However, the
'down-side' is that about 25% of these teachers are untrained. The challenge of the next 4-5 years will be
(a) train this back-log, (b) while maintaining a steady growth rate in the supply of teachers (to match
expected increases in enrolment of pupils).
14.   Over the ESAC period, the number of completed Primary Schools classrooms rose from about
25,000 (1997) to about 50,000 (at the end of 2000). This is a generally high growth rate, but the
classroom pupil ratio is very high (1:100). The entire construction programme was offto a slow start due
to (a) initial logistical problems (b) slow contracting processes for construction projects, (c) start up inertia.
15.   Towards the end of the ESAC, the growth rate picked up significantly, e.g. in the 1999/2000 F/Y
(alone), fresh contracts for a total number of 18,000 classrooms were successfully negotiated and executed.
16.   It is hoped that this momentum can be maintained in order (a) to raise the number of completed
classrooms to about 150,000 by 2005/6 and (b) raise the PCR to about 1:50 (c) standardize the cost of
construction to about US$5,000.00 per classroom.
Instructional Materials
17.   At the onset of the ESAC, the text-book to pupil ratio was about 1: 10. The ESAC target was raise
this to 1:3 by 2000 (and subsequently 1:1 in 2003).
18.   At the time of this ICR, the ratio was 1:7 (and the 2003 target is unlikely to be met). The main
reasons for this gross under performance include (a) slow procurement procedures and (b) procurement
stoppage due to curriculum revision in the mid-stream of the ESAC.
-43-



Payroll Management
19.   One of the areas for strengthening the Education Sector Management under the ESAC, was to
clean-up and consolidate the Primary School Teachers GOU Payroll.
20.   The main problem was that a large number of teachers were not featured on the Payroll.
21.   Despite problems of co-ordination, between four centres of ministerial interest in the subject, viz
Finance/Education/Public Service/Local Government, a recent survey (by the MOES) indicated that,
currently, just over 85% of all Primary School Teachers were now on the Payroll.
Monitoring System for Accountability of Public Funds
22.   Following a Study on Tracking the Flow of and Accountability of UPE Funds (in Uganda),
recently concluded by the MOES, in which a number of shortcomings on accountability of UPE funds were
identified and a number of innovative recommendations made, a number of remedial measures have been
positioned (within the Monitoring Section of the MOES) to monitor and audit all PAF funds (under which
UPE funds will now be managed).
23.   However, full functionalization of the MOES management handle will require enhanced and full
funding.
Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Output
24.   Major factors affecting the implementation and outcomes of ESAC were:
(a)   lengthy procurement procedures
(b)   change of curriculum (mid-way)
(c)   freeze on recruitment of civil servants
(d)    non-positioning of the EMIS
(e)    unresponsive public expenditure systems
Sustainability
25.   The GOU is committed to providing free Universal Primary Education to all children of school
going age (6-12) years.
26.   Consequently, UPE is among government priority programs as identified in the PEAP (Poverty
Education Action Plan).
27.   Expenditure on the priority areas identified in the PEAP are protected against any budget cuts and
primary education is among the beneficiaries of the finances that support the PEAP.
28.   It therefore, follows that primary education is a major beneficiary of PAF funds and these funds
are projected to increase, progressively every year, up to the year 2003.
29.   As the economy grows, the tax base is also expected to expand and so are GOU revenues. This is
supported by immediate historical (1991-1999) and current revenue figures. So, if government sources are
supplemented by funding from development partners, sustainability can be assured for the short to mediurn
term.
-44 -



Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank Performance
30.   The key indicators here such as disbursement of funds and supervision are rated as highly
satisfactory.
31.    Channelling ODA through Budget Support, rather that Projects, has been significantly successful
and is commendable.
Borrower Performance
32.    Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.
33.   There was active participation by all stakeholders from the stage of negotiations up to project
completion. However, some problems effected borrower performance as already indicated earlier in para
24.
34.   Correspondence on record in the MOES indicates that key officers in the Ministry of Education
and Sports were always keen on ensuring that the bottlenecks affecting implementation of ESAC were
promptly dealt with.
35.   The Chart below summarizes the performance of the Bank and the Borrower by factor.
CHART: Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank performance
Factor                  Rating
1. Lending              Satisfactory
2. Supervision          Highly Satisfactory
3. Overall              Highly Satisfactory
Borrower performance
Factor                                       Rating
1. Preparation                               Satisfactory
2. Government implementation performance*     Satisfactory
3. Implementation agency performance         Highly Satisfactory
4. Overall*                                   Satisfactory
* Major shortcomings are (a) records and data management, especially on construction (b) poor recording and
unstructured systems for data/information on inflows & final use of funds. All to be addressed in the course of
design and development of the EMIS.
- 45 -



Lessons Learned
36.   Most lessons learned were to do with implementation.
37.   Among them there are the live need for (a) proper study (b) planning (c) piloting (d) monitoring
and evaluation of all initiatives as well as activities within the UPE Programme.
38.   There is also a need to attend to some of the implementation obstacles identified in para. 24 above.
Reform of procurement processes is under way.
39.   Finally, World Bank funding through Budget Support (rather than through Projects) has been
exemplary and successful and ought to be (a) assessed in detail (b) institionalized (c) applied (in future) as
a more effective mode for development intervention in Uganda (and similar developing countries).
- 46 -



Additional Annex 11. Letter of Education Sector Policy
Ministry of Finance
PO Box8147
Kampala
Uganda
12 February, 1998
Mr Callisto Madavo
Vice President, Africa Region
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Madavo:
RE: Letter of Education Sector Policy
1.    The purpose of this letter is to describe the education sector policies that we plan to follow during
the implementation of the proposed Education Sector Adjustment Credit. Specific actions are included in
the attached Policy Matrix, and have to do with disseminating the Universal Primary Education Policy
(UPE), increasing resources available to UPE, increasing efficiency in the use of public resources,
protecting quality of teaching and learning, and strengthening sector management. The letter discusses
each of these actions in further detail.
Overail Development Strategy
2.    The Government of Uganda has been implementing a solid program of stabilization, economic
recovery, and structural adjustment. As indicated in the most recent Policy Framework Paper distributed to
World Bank's Board in November 1997 and as reflected in the most recent Country Assistance Strategy,
the public expenditure strategy concentrates on those activities in which government must play a leading
role. In particular it concentrates on those, such as education, which are a priority for the government as
reflected in the recent Poverty Eradication Action Plan of 1977.
Education Sector Policy
3.    Uganda's education sector suffered substantially in the 1970s and 1980s. Following the restoration
of peace in 1986, the government initiated the process of reforming and reconstructing the education sector
by establishing an Education Policy Review Commission (EPRC). Following the recommendations issued
in 1989 by EPRC, a detailed government White Paper identified improved access to education as one of the
priorities for the sector. One central goal is to universalize primary education in Uganda. In February
1997 the Ministry of Education introduced the Universal Primary Education Policy (UPE) to ensure that
educational access, quality, equity, and relevance are affordable to the majority of children of school-going
age (6-12). Since the initial implementation of the policy in the 1997 school year, more than 2.5 million
additional pupils enrolled in primary education and remained in the system during the whole academic year.
-47 -



The proposed Education Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC) will provide support to the government as it
addresses certain essential policy issues. As part of the ESAC, the Ministry of Education (MoE) will
finalize the Education Strategic Investment Plan (ESIP), following consultation with the donor community
and other stakeholders, creating the underpinning for investment in the sector in the mid-term. The
following issues are to be addressed by ESAC.
1.     Clarification of the UPE Policy
4.     The main objective of the UPE is to provide the minimum necessary inputs and resources to enable
every Uganda child of school-going age to enter and remain at school to complete the primary education
cycle. This goal should be accomplished by 2003.
5.     The policy objectives of providing UPE include: (i) establishing, providing and maintaining quality
of education to promote national human resource development; (ii) transforming society in fundamental
ways; (iii) facilitating the entry, retention, and completion of the primary education cycle for all children;
(iv) making basic education equitable, accessible and relevant to the nation; and (v) ensuring that education
is affordable to the majority of Ugandans. The rapid implementation of UPE has caused some
misunderstanding concerning the actual details of the policy.
6.     Under the programme, the Govemnment's responsibilities are to: (i) pay statutory fees for four
children per family and all orphans; (ii) provide instructional materials, teachers guides, syllabus, and
curriculum; (iii) provide pre-and in-service training for teachers; (iv) provide teachers' salaries in
government grant-aided schools; and (v) assist with construction of school buildings. Districts should
provide: (i) furniture; (ii) clean and safe water within reach of school; (iii) land or premises where teaching
and learning can take place; (iv) assistance in the construction of school buildings; and (v) supervision and
inspection of schools. Parents are responsible for: (i) exercise books, pencils (ii) meals; (iii) clothing for
their children (iv) transport to and from school; and (v) assistance in the construction of the school
buildings. These responsibilities will be clarified to all parties involved. The Ministries of Education,
Public Service, Local Govenmment, Planning and Economic Development, and Finance will work closely to
agree on the content ot the dissemination campaign and will ensure that the campaign is carried out
smoothly, starting in 1998 and continuing during the next two years.
7.     A national dissemination strategy is intended to make sure that all district staff, teachers and
head-teachers, communities and parents understand the policy and their roles in relationship to the policy.
The strategy, incorporating all efforts to date, will be prepared with an implementation plan and budget.
This dissemination exercise will require MoE to conduct a national public campaign using multiple
channels of communication. It will involve the media, including radio and newspapers, posters, as well as
other materials designed to reach those in remote areas and those who lack literacy skills. As part of its
dissemination effort, the Government will spccifically create materials to be publicly displayed at all
private community schools to inform both parents and teachers that govemment resources for these schools
at this time extend only to capitation grants, and that full grant-aiding (paying of teachers' salaries) will
only take place as resources allow and following assessment of all criteria for acceptance. The MoE has
established a committee, the UPE Implementation Committee, expressly for defining and implementing the
UPE Policy. Policy decision taken by this committee will be communicated in a variety of ways.
Specifically the methods to be used will include: (i) circular and guidelines sent from the MoE to Local
Council 5 chairpersons, Chief Administrative Officers (CAOs), District Education Officers (DEOs),
District Inspectors of Schools (DISs) and Resident District Commissioners (RDCs) in all districts; (ii)
seminars and workshops with headteachers, teachers, parents at the district (including LCI) level, and the
national level; (iii) intersectoral briefs; (iv) policy statements to parliament and cabinet; and (v) use of
- 48 -



Co-ordinating Centre Tutors to assist in sensitizing the teachers and the community.
2.     Increasing Resources Available to UPE
8.     The GOU will pursue these objectives by reforming the pattern of resource mobilization and
resource allocation in the sector, and through appropriate institutional reform and strengthening, and this
trend will continue. The elimination of primary tuition fees for four children per family and the elimination
of Parents and Teachers Association (PTA) fees in rural primary schools, and the ceilings imposed in
municipal schools, have already relieved the household financial constraints on enrolment especially for low
income families.
9.     Education subsidies are greatest at the university level, relatively less for secondary and primary
teacher training, and least at the primary education level. This structure is inequitable, since post-primary
education pupils, especially at the university level, tend to come mainly from relatively better-off
households. At the primary level, the burden of fees traditionally led to school dropout and low enrolment,
mainly among poor households. With the UPE policy, and within the charge for education service at post
primary levels, this traditional inequity of education subsidies will recede. Untargeted across-the-board
subsidization will be substantially reduced. Boarding subsidies at the secondary level have already been
discontinued, and boarding subsidies at the university level will be progressively phased out. The increased
mobilization of resources from pupils and their parents at post-primary levels will allow a greater share of
Central Government expenditure to be devoted to primary education as reflected in the budget of FY 97/98
and subsequent years. The government will allocate to the primary education recurrent budget at least
19.5% of total government recurrent expenditure (excluding statutory and interest payments) in FY 98/99
and 17.5% in FY 99/00.
10.    The public campaign (see Par 7) will also address how parents can support primary education.
Although the policy eliminates all school fees, the policy does permit parents' support in other essential
areas such as school construction. Specific programs will be developed to help parents better understand
the role they can play in supporting primary education, as part of the dissemination effort.
3.     Increasing Efficiency in the Use of Resources
II.    The Government's policy is designed to increase efficiency in the use of public resources.
Efficiency measures at the primary education levels will include: (i) introduction of a revised Staff
Establishment formula for primary schools; (ii) double shift teaching; (iii) multi-grade teaching strategies in
schools with small classes; and (iv) rationalizing of teacher training programs.
Revised Staff Establishment Fornula
12.    Prior to the introduction of UPE, the provision of teachers to schools was based on one teacher for
forty pupils per class plus one teacher. With the great increase in enrolments, the number of teachers
required would have been 155,178 in 1977. This figure was revised to one teacher for 55 pupils (or per
class) - the staff establishment under this ratio would be 114,267, an efficiency saving of nearly 41,000
teacher places. The ratio will be revised, as fimds become available, to increase the numbers of teachers,
with regard to the number of pupils in the system and the level of teacher salaries.
Double Shifting
13.    As a further efficiency measure, double shift classes have been built into the staff establishment
ratio for all primary schools, by providing one teacher position for 110 pupils in Primary 1 and 2 classes.
Double shifting involves using physical and human resources twice in one day to accommodate two cohorts
- 49 -



of pupils and the staff establishment assumes that tZhis will take place. Effectively this means that no
school has any staffing advantage by not introducing double shift teaching. This reduced the staff
establishment from 114, 267 to approximately 91,000, a further saving of 23,000 places. With the
introduction of the amended Staff Establishment Ratio in 1998, there are limited further efficiency gains to
be made for these classes. As the majority of upper primary classes have less than 55 pupils (the current
pupil:teacher ratio) little can be gained in efficiency by splitting classes with more than 55 pupils. Some
further gains could be made by considering other options such as the one teacher teaching P3 in the
morning and P4 in the aftemoon. Provision of teachers' salaries to districts will now be based on the
revised establishment and districts are being informed of this with lists of establishments for all government
grant-aided schools. As the large cohort of pupils which enrolled in P1 in 1997 moves through the system
it will be important to consider the class of this cohort (e.g. P3 in 1999) for further double shifting.
Multi-grade Teaching
14.   Multi-grade schools combine pupils of different ages and abilities (enrolled in different grades) in
one classroom under the direction of one teacher. 'Multi-grade schooling can be a cost-effective means of
expanding access and increasing learning achievement. In the case of Uganda, a number of schools operate
with very small classes that could be combined if teachers were properly trained in multi-grade teaching.
The first step in Uganda will be to explore the concept and relevance to the current needs in the country.
By April 30, 1999, a policy paper will be completed that examines the issue and addresses how a national
pilot project could be launched. The paper will address how to pilot at least two multi-grade schools in
each of at least two districts and how these schools could serve as an experimental training program for
others that might be willing to implement the policy voluntarily. The paper will also include a strategy for
marketing the policy to be implemented in the 1999 school year.
Teacher Supply
15.   The MoE will complete a study on primary teacher supply and demand and approve an action plan
by April 30, 1999. The current system does not take into account the number of teachers that are needed or
can be afforded. This study will define the respective roles and responsibilities of pre-service and
in-service teacher education, identify responsible authorities, and determine the number of Teachers
Training Colleges required to meet the demand for primary teacher education during the next five years.
The MoE will address the potential closure of Teacher Training College based on cost-effectiveness
criteria. By April 30, 2000 there will be complete implementation of the recommendations of the report,
including closure of colleges.
4.     Protecting Quality Inputs
Ongoing-Teacher Support
16.   Teachers are one of the most cost-effective education inputs in Uganda. In order to improve the
quality of teaching, Government has been supporting in-service training. Teachers' salaries have improved
over the last few years and the Government is conmmitted to maintaining the current levels. The
Government will continue giving priority to teacher training, providing a balanced program of pre-service
training, upgrading untrained teachers, and expanding in-service training, by extending the scheme
supported by the Teacher Development and Management System (TDMS) to cover the whole country.
Double Shift Teaching
17.   Double Shift teaching for P1 and P2 has been built into the staff establishment of all primary
schools. However, the physical arrangements of how individual teachers will be allocated to individual
classes will be a matter for schools. The quality of teaching may suffer if schools choose to place one
teacher with 110 pupils in a single shift arrangement. Double shifting will be selectively applied as a
- 50 -



temporary measure by schools in consultation with district administrators. The policy could allow for
participating teachers to receive a monetary incentive to teach a morning and afternoon session with
different pupils. The policy, where appropriate, is appealing in that it provides a mechanism by which to
reduce class size without needing more physical space or additional teaching staff. The policy will be
further explored in a draft policy paper to be completed by February 28, 1998. The paper will examine
how double shifting might be an appropriate policy to accommodate enrolment growth across all grades of
primary education. The paper will also include an implementation plan that presents a strategy to market
the policy, together with a budget for implementation. The marketing plan will address how to make the
policy appeal to pupils, parents, and teachers as it changes the notion of schooling that is currently
practiced. Marketing will begin at least three months before the 1999 school year to assure implementation
in 1999 school year. The MoE will monitor the implementation to see how many schools respond and what
effect the policy has on reducing class size and improving school quality.
Instructional Materials
18.    The protection of the provision of textbooks and other instructional materials is also essential to
achieve quality of education. In order to achieve the goal of 90% of schools reaching a 1:3 ratio for
Mathematics and English textbooks and 70% of schools reaching a 1:3 ratio for Social Studies and Science
textbooks, the Govermment will continue its policy of encouraging private sector development in the
production and distribution of these materials. The role of the public sector will be policy oriented (setting
policies, formulating guidelines and monitoring standards), and to facilitate a working market in
instructional materials. A committee has been reviewing government policy in this area and will issue
recommendations by 28 February 1998. The recommendations will guide the next procurement of
instructional materials. Policy guidelines will ensure that schools have adequate choice of instructional
materials. The government will allocate at least 2.8% of total primary education recurrent budget to
instructional materials in FY98/99 and FY99/00. It will ensure that schools have received shipments of
instructional materials in the 1999 school year, based on a random sample survey of at least 350 schools in
each of at least four districts.
Provision of Physical Infrastructure
19.    The expansion of primary education has created an enormous demand for more schools and
classrooms. MoE will pilot at least two models for school construction starting in the 1998 academic years
and final report assessing the experience will be ready by April 30, 1999. Information on the number and
location of schools, their status and their infrastructure is incomplete and just beginning to be
systematically mapped by district. Implementation of the pilot phase in one district (i.e. Kumi) has been
completed and launched. Plans are now under way to design a program for countrywide district level
educational development plans, which will include school mapping (collection of data on school human
resources, educational facilities and location). Funding has been secured for the first nine districts. An
inventory of school buildings and classes was taken during the headcount of August 1997 and an
investment fund for school construction (including classrooms, latrines and teacher housing) is being set up
to systematically provide the necessary infrastructure.
Teacher Workforce
20.    A headcount of teachers on August 1997 identified about 102,300 teachers in the system, including
government grant-aided and some private and community schools with UPE children. About three percent
were identified as ghosts (i.e. not present at their schools) so about 99,000 were physically in schools. Of
these, 65,000 were included on the payroll, and about 33,700 were working without being on the payroll.
Among these, more than 14,000 had been working before the introduction of UPE policy, and 19,700 were
hired as a result of the policy. The number working in identified government schools was 89,000.
Revisions to the payroll on the basis of the headcount give a total, including all districts, of 74,139 teachers
- 51 -



on the govemment primary teacher payroll as of January 31, 1998. The staff establishment for government
schools distributed on February 10 for the 1998 school year is 90,031. The government comnmits itself not
to exceed the agreed primary teacher wage bill of 90.1 billion for FY97/98. The budget estimate for this
ceiling for the 1998 academic year is equivalent to approximately 92,000 teachers, though this number may
vary, resources permitting. This allows for some schools not contained in the headcount data set such as
those in Bundibugyo, and may allow for the acceptance of some private community schools. Ceilings will
be established for each financial year for the number of primary education teachers whose salaries will be
fmanced by the Central Government budget (see Par 12). The government is committed to solving the issue
of teacher arrears by paying these salaries quickly and efficiently. Appropriate mechanisms for hiring
teachers and placing them on the payroll will be completed by January 31, 2000. The government will
design and implement a system that increases the control of central government over primary teacher wage
costs and limits its liability to only pay teachers within the system.
5.    Strengthening Sector Management
Recruitment, Deployment and Payment of Teachers
21.   The Ministry of Education is committed to working with other ministries to improve the overall
management of the payroll system. As a part of strengthening the sector management, the MoE is also
working on designing guidelines for all districts and schools related to the recruitment, deployment, and
payment of teachers. Two sets of guidelines have been circulated. By March 1, 1998 all teachers in excess
of the district staff establishment will have been identified and notified in writing of the termination of their
services. By March 6 CAOs will inform MoE, MoPS, MoF and MoLG of the names and number of
teachers terminated. As of April 28, 1998 schools will receive salary payments for a number of teachers
not exceeding the staff establishment distributed February 10, 1998. Chief Administrator Officers and
District Education Service Committees will be responsible for the implementation of this policy. The
Ministry has developed and will implement a financing plan to clear teachers' arrears by May 31, 1999.
The updating of the payroll will also assure the exclusion of ghosts. As new teachers are hired and added
to the payroll all efforts will be made to minimize the number of teachers that are untrained. Priority will
be given to those experienced teachers that were previously supported by PTA funds.
Management Information System
22.   The Ministry of Education will also design an education management information system (EMIS)
to include essential inputs and outputs. A planning process that includes representatives from other
ministries as well as practitioners will contribute to deciding what inputs and outputs should be gathered.
The Education Planning Department will be responsible for overseeing this effort. An essential part of this
EMIS will be a school mapping exercise, whose terms of reference will be ready by February 29, 1998. By
April 30, 2000 the system will be operational in at least 20 districts.
Implementation of Accountability System
23.   The Ministry will issue guidelines to districts and schools for accounting for public funds
consistent with the government accounting manual and regulations. The monitoring system that is
implemented will follow the Guidelines for Transparency and Accountability already issued to schools.
Responsibilities for MoE, districts and schools are as follows:
(a) MoE will: (i) issue conditions for the UPE conditional grants and seek the consensus of local
government; these conditions will be circulated to all levels of local govemment and UPE beneficiary
schools; (ii) submit requests for release of funds to Ministry of Finance. The requests will include a
schedule of districts and urban authorities and the respective number of schools, number of teachers, total
enrolment; and funds allocated, with copies of the requisition to Auditor General, IGG, Ministry of Local
- 52 -



Government. The Ministry of Finance will release the funds to the CAOs with a schedule of enrolment for
the respective districts. MoF will transfer the money to CAOs specifically for the UPE program and MoF
will publish monthly conditional transfers.
(b) Districts will: (i) notify each government-aided primary school in the district the total amount
budgeted for salary and non-salary expenses for the school year; (ii) display publicly the total amount
received from the Central Government in conditional grants for salary and non-salary primary school
expenditure for UPE; and (iii) display publicly the full list of government-aided primary schools receiving
the non-salary capitation grants from these conditional grants and the amounts given to each school. The
list will be by sub-country, city, and municipal/urban authority, and will be displayed at the district
administration office and sub-country notice board, and the list will be updated monthly at the time of the
distribution of conditional grants.
(c) Schools will: (i) display the total amount budgeted by the district for salary and non-salary
expenses for the school year; (ii) display the monthly amount received from the district for salary and
non-salary expenses for the school year, updated monthly; (iii) these amounts will be displayed publicly at
the school, accessible to any parent and community member; (iv) have meetings between headteachers and
staff to agree on priority items/activities on which expenditures is to be incurred and in line with MoE
guidelines; and (v) make sure the headteachers send monthly accountability reports to the CAO through the
DEO and copies of accountability reports will be sent to the chairperson of the School Management
Committee and sub-country chief. Failure to account for releases in a term will lead to disciplinary action
against the responsible officer.
24.    The government will monitor the implementation of this accountability system for public funds
using a random sample of 350 schools in at least four districts.
25.    Finally, with the help of the donor community, Uganda can succeed in delivering primary education
to almost double the number of pupils previously enrolled at the same level of quality. This will require
further investment in teachers, instructional materials, and construction of school infrastructure. We are
hopeful that the actions outlined in this letter and in the policy matrix can be achieved. We are looking
forward to continued collaboration with IDA to achieve these objectives.
Yours sincerely,
J.S. Mayanja Nkangi                                Amanya Mushega
Minister of Finance                                Minister of Education
- 53 -






MAP SECTION






r___________               _________       r          ,          -         ______                            IBRD 25052Rl
[   33<                                           32                                                 34/                                                3O
SUDAN
DyOMY'/4 *I~ -'               '       > A  " n                  Km,g                     U G A N D A
KITGUM
- 4             e       ""ug        F)ttlaa.-s5F2ner R                    jrhnlF;/r          >                 , l,) ; t, 2-  . . RIVERS
/  *ARUA              i                             ORTHER               - > KOTI5O   /                              .    FALLS
DEMOCRATIC  A4 GJ
PRIMARY BITUMEN ROADS
REPUBLIC
OF CONGO                   NEB/ f                                                                                      MOROTO  N                    PRIMARY GRAVEL ROADS
N                                                             r.Mnho9,andeLn,<. ( ,.d' ALIRA An_A,C,h,d._ ~"Kong    ole (44444444  UNSURFACED ROADS
4' 4544 4446444.R  MumTha4"                     04 -fi   q   <if  t (                                          RAILROADS
-2                        _                       X   T  ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~APAcHCO     ..,                   ul,h     
SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
I N D.[DB >pQROTI s0h)u                                                                               DISTRICT CAPITALS
-   --  -~~~~~~  KUMI    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~                NATIONAL CAPITAL
HOIMA.,                                                                                H s .  H O I M  d FCHO  -  DISTRiCT BOUNDARiES
.9  kdo~~~4sq4a  -  P~~~~ALUSA ~REGION BOUNDARIES
Naaasaoel     M~~~~~~A{E ~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
LUWER                                                          --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,rc,nmsc,,,cida  Da433 rc Capita(a, -,tha
KIBALEa -5S74thh@    >   >    <   - tLUWERO<MDL 49mOSC9Ol                    S                            capti Fart Port sthe Dmtrrct Cpital fa Kbar-Ia Dimmd
) T5 B44                              MUBENDE                     tOLL}ttB   -i  K.                           > K                  E '          50          33         154
- b asaal                                               KLMIETES 0               50                4o
/ FPOR~~~RTTA MUBENDE B  s|_
E                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~KENYA                 -
o.  Kaa              Ls                  -                                   33       ,      ,    '- 
Lake     0:       , ,                                                                                                                                                          7
en$;f_ TEdward                                           XI. .                                                       (                                                         W7 >;t
:<UGAND41
540,J S   k04492e    *    >    0      nanalseil t0tl'  i 
TANZANIA
30                                                                                                   31 u' uny endoem   32'  {.TJU
fL  f o1  uaewh,lse  ol  .Sch , 'i z z , ,, , ,,, ,, F __2_e_____3 3Jq \ 360 JUNE 1 998~~~JUNE 199



