Document of
the International Development Association
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7185-UG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 59.2 MILLION
AND
A PROPOSED GRANT IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 55.5 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR AN
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
February 27, 1998
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30 (FY98 = July 1, 1997 to June 30, 1998)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Ugandan shilling (U Sh)
Interbank Market mid-rate: US$1.00 = U Sh 1,025
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB               African Development Bank
DANIDA             Danish International Development Agency
DFID               Department for International Development (United Kingdom)
EFMP               Economic and Financial Management Project
ESIP               Education Strategic Investment Plan
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GER                Gross Enrollment Ratio
GOU                Government of Uganda
GTZ                German Agency for Technical Cooperation
HIPC               Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative
IDA                International Development Association
JICA               Japanese International Development Agency
MOE                Ministry of Education
MOF                Ministry of Finance
MOLG               Ministry of Local Government
MPS                Ministry of Public Service
NGO                Nongovernmental Organization
PETDP              Primary Education and Teacher Development Project
SAC                Structural Adjustment Credit
SSA                Sub-Saharan Africa
TDMS               Teacher Development and Management System
UNDP               United Nations Development Program
UNEB               Uganda National Examinations Board
UNESCO             United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNICEF             United Nations Children's Education Fund
UPE                Universal Primary Education
USAID              United States Agency for International Development
Vice President     Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director    James W. Adams
Sector Manager     Ruth Kagia
Task Team Leader   Eduardo Velez



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY  ................................................................................................................i
I. INTRODUCTION .1
II. THE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT AND THE RATIONALE FOR
THE PROPOSED OPERATION                           .2
A. Economic Performance                   .2
B. Project Rationale                    .2
III. THE EDUCATION SECTOR                           .3
A. Issues .............      ,.3
B. Bank Strategy in Education               .5
C. Policy Framework                     .6
IV. THE PROPOSED OPERATION                           .8
A. Objectives of the Proposed Credit           .8
B. Conditions of Tranche Release .10
C. Supervision Plan. .11
Borrower's Leading Role
IDA Supervision
D. Credit Administration .13
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
E. Environmental Aspects .14
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS                            .15
VI. RECOMMENDATION .16
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: LETTER OF EDUCATION SECTOR POLICY
ANNEX 2: POLICY MATRIX
ANNEX 3: STATISTICAL APPENDIX
UGANDA AT A GLANCE
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UGANDA
STATEMENT OF IFC'S COMMITTED AND DISBURSED PORTFOLIO
ANNEX 4: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF UGANDA-ESAC
ANNEX 5: TECHNICAL NOTES
NOTE 1: PROJECTIONS FOR PUBLIC FUNDING OF THE
EDUCATION SECTOR
NOTE 2: FINANCING OF PRIMARY EDUCATION AND
ACCOUNTABILITY IN UGANDA
The project preparation team includes E. Velez, C. Abelmann (AFTH1); R.
Reinikka (AFTM2); H. Nannyonjo (AFMUG); A. Ojoo (Consultant). Peer Reviewers: R.
Prouty (AFTH2); G. Psacharopoulos (HDD). Project Quality Review Team includes S.
Agarwal (AFTSI); A. Zerabruk (LEGAF); P. Wijesinghe (LOAAF), and N. Burnett
(AFTH2). Sector Manager is R. Kagia (AFTH1) and Country Director is James Adams
(AFC04).



THE R1EPUBLIC OF UGANDA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
Summary
Beneficiary:            The Republic of Uganda
Project Task ID:        UG-PE-2972
Implementing Agency:    Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Education
Amount:                  SDR 59.2 million (US$75 million equivalent), IDA Grant
in the context of the HIPC Debt Initiative, and SDR 55.5
million (US$80 million equivalent) IDA Credit.
Terms:                  IDA Grant - Is not repayable.
The IDA Credit, standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Disbursement:           The proposed operation will be disbursed through the Bank
of Uganda. The initial tranche of US$75 million
equivalent, 100 % of the IDA Development Grant, will be
available upon the effectiveness of the IDA Development
Grant Agreement. The Second and Third tranches will be
released out of the IDA Development Credit upon
fulfillment of the relevant tranche release conditions.
Background:             The Education Sector Adjustment Operation will provide
budget support for the implementation of the Government's
Universal Primary Education Policy (UPE) which started
during the 1997 academic year. This policy aims at
supporting universal primary education by opening up
access to education to all children of primary education age,
but specially to those of poor families who traditionally
have not been able to attend school. Although UPE
addresses a very critical education issue, it is highly
unlikely that without substantial external assistance the
policy intent can be achieved.
Description:            The proposed program will support UPE. In addition to
providing the budgetary support required for the
Government to implement its education program, the
operation will work to improve the allocation of resources,
the efficiency in the use of resources, the provision of key



ii
educational inputs, and the strengthening of overall sector
management.
Rational for IDA
Involvement:            A primary objective of the Bank's assistance strategy to
Uganda is to reduce poverty by generating employment and
income opportunities through accelerated economic growth
and by increasing the provision and effectiveness of public
services, especially health and education. Primary
education enrollment had stagnated in the 1990s. The
implementation of the UPE policy is a major effort
undertaken by the Government to improve primary
education achievement. IDA's budget support will be key
to allow initial implementation of the policy.
Government Commitment: During the 1 990s the Government has established a record
of solid economic reform and sustained growth. As a result
of this achievement and because Uganda still remains in
the lower tier of low income developing countries and
carries a debt above sustainable levels, Uganda has been
recommended to be the first country to benefit from the
Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative (HIPC). The
Government has given priority to primary education with
the implementation of the UPE policy, and families have
responded with a strong enthusiasm by increasing
enrollment in primary education, from about 2.7 million to
about 5.3 million students.
Benefits:               Because the policy is expanding access to children who
traditionally did not have the opportunity to enroll, the
poor are now benefiting. Because social rates of return for
primary education are about 16 percent, this investment
will be beneficial to the society at large. But more
importantly, primary education is strongly associated with
agricultural productivity. Farmers with complete primary
education have crop output 13 percent higher than farmers
without education.
Risks:                  The main risk lies in the Central Government's ability to
allocate the resources for the education sector. To minimize
this risk, budget monitoring will be carried out in
cooperation with IDA to guarantee that resources provided
are in fact allocated to the education sector and spent on the
agreed inputs.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT AND A PROPOSED GRANT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA FOR AN EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
OPERATION
L INTRODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
proposed development credit to the Republic of Uganda in the amount of SDR 59.2
million (US$ 80 million equivalent), and a proposed development grant in the amount of
SDR 55.5 million (US$75 million equivalent), to help finance an Education Sector
Adjustment Operation (ESAC). IDA resources under the proposed operation would be
disbursed over a three-year period. The operation would help provide support for the
Government's Universal Primary Education Policy (UPE) which started during the 1997
academic year. This policy aims at supporting universal primary education by offering all
families free access to primary education for up to four children. Although UPE addresses
a very critical education issue, it is highly unlikely that without substantial external
assistance the policy intent can be achieved. This operation is consistent with the Bank's
assistance strategy and its main goal, poverty reduction, as spelled out in the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) that was discussed by the Board on May 20, 1997, and with
the Policy Framework Paper (PFP) distributed to the Board on October 31, 1997. The
policy supported by this operation also follows the recommendations of the recent Poverty
Eradication Action Plan prepared by the Government of Uganda last year.
2.    The operation, whose timing and agenda were fully determined by the Ugandan
authorities, would have two parts. One would be an IDA grant of US$75 million
authorized by the Board when Uganda was declared eligible to benefit under the Heavily
Indebted Poor Countries Initiative (HIPC); and, the second, an IDA credit of US$80
million, would be on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years. Part II of the
document discusses the Borrower's recent economic performance and the rationale for
using adjustment lending in the education sector. Part III describes issues of importance
within the sector. Part IV discusses the proposed operation. Part V discusses benefits
and risks and, finally, Part VI provides the recommendation.



2
II. THE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT AND THE RATIONALE FOR THE
PROPOSED OPERATION
A. Economic Performance
3.    During the 1990s the Government of Uganda (GOU) has established a record of
solid economic reform and sustained growth. GDP growth has averaged 6.4 percent
during President Museveni's tenure and 8.1 percent over the past three years. Inflation
has declined and the annual average inflation is in single digits. Economic policy has
been disciplined and the impact on most performance indicators has been positive. The
most important structural and institutional reforms include import, export and foreign
exchange liberalization, privatization, public enterprises, tax administration, the financial
sector, and the civil service. As a result of these achievements and because Uganda still
remains in the lower tier of low income developing countries and carries a debt above
sustainable levels, the country has been the first to qualify as a recipient of the HIPC
Initiative.
4.    Social indicators, however, show a poor picture. In the case of education, much
ground was lost during the political turmoil and economic decline of the 1970s and early
1980s. Although significant improvements have been recorded recently, stagnation in
enrollment and decline in quality continued during the 1990s. Because of the need for
continued progress and because the GOU believes that community financial support for
primary education can only increase over time, there is a strong basis for IDA support to
the education sector.
B. Project Rationale
5.    A primary objective of IDA's assistance strategy to Uganda is to reduce poverty
by generating employment and income opportunities through accelerated economic
growth and by increasing the provision and effectiveness of public services, especially
health and education. The proposed operation is linked with the following reform
objectives supported by the CAS: (i) poverty reduction (the main aim of the operation is
to improve the education status of the population, particularly in high poverty areas); (ii)
strengthen budgetary process (the operation will coordinate with the actions underway
through the recently approved Third Structural Adjustment Credit, SACIII, and the
forthcoming Second Economic and Financial Management project, EFMPII); (iii)
accelerated human development by improving access and quality of education; and (iv)
revitalization of rural development by improving public investment in infrastructure
(rural schools) and reducing regional disparities. The use of adjustment lending in the
sector represents IDA's interest in removing structural constraints for the efficient use of
sector resources.
6.    The implementation of the UPE policy is a major effort of the GOU to improve
primary education achievement. IDA's budget support will be key to allow initial
implementation of the policy. The GOU has produced the Education Strategic



3
Investment Plan spelling out the most important policy implications as reflected in the
Policy Letter (Annex 1). The policy reform to be supported by the operation is a clear
example of a policy designed to improve education in the country, one of the clear
objectives of the HIPC Initiative. Since the initial implementation of the policy, in the
1997 academic year, about 2.5 million additional students enrolled in primary education.
III. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A. Issues
7.    Access. Although education statistics are limited and, sometimes, unreliable, key
indicators reveal a sector in distress. Primary education enrollment had stagnated in the
early 1990s. Up to 1996, before the implementation of the UPE policy, total enrollment
was equivalent to a net primary enrollment ratio of about 63 percent (Integrated
Household Survey 1992/93) and a gross primary enrollment ratio of 93 percent. These
ratios compare unfavorably with the ones of comparable low-income countries like
Ghana, Madagascar, Lesotho, and Kenya. Secondary enrollment is extremely low. Net
enrollment and gross enrollment rates are about 12 and 19 percent respectively. These
rates also compare unfavorably with African averages, especially with comparable low-
income countries like Togo, Nigeria, Ghana, Zambia, Lesotho, and Kenya. Only a small
proportion of secondary school graduates continue to higher education, with net and gross
enrollment rates of about 3 percent.
8.    Equity. Access to education continues to favor the better-off, males, and those in
the urban areas. Until recently, the net enrollment rate for primary education varied
among income groups from 46 percent for the poorest quintile to 81 percent for the
richest quintile. The pattern is more dramatic for secondary and higher education: the net
enrollment rate for secondary education varies from 2 percent for the poorest quintile to
27 percent for the richest quintile, and the net enrollment rate for higher education varies
from 1 percent for the poorest quintile to 5 percent for the richest quintile. Net
enrollment in Uganda has been inequitable not only between income groups but also
between males and females and between regions. Nationwide, 45 percent of primary
school students were girls. However, considerable variation exists in gender equity
among districts. There were eight districts where girls constituted less than 40 percent of
enrollment, and eleven districts where girls represented at least 49 percent of enrollment.
Household survey data also illustraLted that girls' enrollment in primary education has
been lower than boys, mainly among the poorest families. In fact, for the richer families
there are no gender differences in enrollment. Although enrollments at secondary
education are low, the ratio of girls to boys decreases by grade from 0.67 for first grade
(Primary 1) to 0.34 for the sixth grade (Primary 6). The higher education female
enrollment of about 30 percent is similar to the average for the African Region. The
intent of the UPE policy is to change these trends to assure better access for the poor,
girls, and those in rural areas.



4
9.   Internal Efficiency. Repetition. In primary government-aided schools in 1995,
repeaters accounted for 19 percent of the total primary education enrollment. However,
there are clear variations by regions. For example, in Kampala only 4 percent of primary
students repeated a grade, while in Kumi 32 percent of primary students repeated a grade.
The repetition rate in secondary education is much less, about 2 percent, due to a liberal
promotion policy. At the tertiary level, failure rates for undergraduates can be very high;
for example 40 percent in Law and 56 percent in Commerce. Dropout rates for primary
education at the national level are about 10 percent. The highest dropout rate (14 percent)
is in the transition from first grade (Primary 1) to second grade (Primary 2). Thereafter,
the annual dropout rates are in the range of 9-11 percent. For Primary 1 through Primary
4, girls' dropout rates do not differ from boys'. The average of cohort survival rates to
Primary 7 for the past three years is only 30 percent (boys 32 percent and girls 28
percent). Dropout in lower secondary schools is high. Between Secondary 1 and
Secondary 4, it is about a third; and about 15 percent of those who enter Secondary 1 go
on to 'A' Level in Secondary 5 and Secondary 6.
10.   Quality. Academic Achievement. The high dropout and repetition rates point to
general low quality of education, which is also reflected in low learning achievement.
Recent results from a study by the Uganda National Examinations Board (UNEB) on
numeracy and literacy of Primary 4 students show that in math, six out of ten problems
were correctly answered by 50 percent or fewer students. Regarding literacy, the results
also show low achievement. The low achievement of the system is more dramatic when
considering that by P4 half of the original cohort has dropped out, and presumably the
learning accomplishments of the dropouts are below those of the students who remain in
school. Results from the Primary Leaving Examination also show that almost I out of 3
students do not pass the exam. The problems of wastage are also found in the secondary
education level, where few students progress on time. In secondary schools, overall
grades in 'O' and 'A' level examinations show a failure rate of 50 percent of candidates,
indicating poor performance. Teacher Quality. Almost 25 percent of primary education
teachers are unqualified. In spite of recent improvements, teachers' salaries only remain
close to the living wage and are often paid late. As a consequence of this financial strain,
many teachers pursue other income generating activities. With this outside pressure and
little formal accountability, teachers often follow no common timetable and ignore the
need to develop lesson plans. Teaching Materials. In primary schools, the student book
ratio for math, English and science is about 6:1 and for social sciences about 10:1.
Although the student book ratio has improved, there is evidence that books are not being
consistently used as a part of classroom practice. Pedagogical Issues. Students generally
take a passive approach. There is little active teaching where the teacher facilitates the
students own learning. At the primary level, there is little group work or cooperative
education. School Facilities. The number of primary schools across the country has
expanded. Between 1980 and 1990, for example, the number of primary schools
increased by 89 percent. However, these primary schools often lack libraries and basic
equipment such as desks and chairs. As a result of the UPE, there is a critical shortage of
classroom space. Over 70 percent of schools have no water supply and no effective



5
drainage system. Poverty, low teacher quality, inadequate educational inputs (software
and hardware) and pedagogical problems help to explain the low level of internal
efficiency.
11.   External Efficiency. The low human capital level of the labor force is reflected
even in the urban areas where the majority of both women and men have not completed
primary education. In fact, Uganda has one of the lowest levels of human development in
the world. It ranks 158 out of 174 countries in the UNDP Human Development Index.
However, cost-benefit analysis of investment in different education levels in Uganda
reports high social rates of return -- 16 percent and 8 percent for primary and secondary
education respectively.
12.   Overall the Government has made some progress in addressing the major issues
facing education; in particular, the implementation of the UPE policy starting in the 1997
academic year. Although the financial implications are a major constraint, the GOU is
committed to increase public expenditure for basic education. It is expected that the
GOU will continue the trend observed in the reduction in its budgetary support for
tertiary education, so that more resources are available for basic education. Central
govemment expenditure on primary education has increased from .8 percent of GDP in
1992/93 to about 2.3 percent in 1997/98. Even with these increases, central government
expenditure on primary education remains lower than most comparable low income
countries. Reflecting this situation the GOU continues to seek additional international
support to facilitate higher levels of spending on education.
B. Bank Strategy in Education
13.  IDA has supported five projects in the education sector: (i) for improvement of
coverage of general secondary education (Education I, for US$9.38 million, signed in
1967 and closed in 1973); (ii) for curriculum development for technical and vocational
secondary education (Education II, for US$7.3 million, signed in 1971 and closed in
1981); (iii) for improvement of quality of education and management of the system
(Education III, for US$32.1 million, signed in 1983 and closed in 1988); (iv) for
improved coverage and quality of primary education (Education IV, for US$22 million,
which was signed in 1989 and closed in 1994); and (v) for the improvement of preservice
and inservice teacher training with the ongoing Primary Education and Teacher
Development, PETD, for US$52.6 million, signed in 1993. With the ESAC, IDA will
provide needed budget support to improve the implementation of UPE. Parallel to the
implementation of this ESAC, IDA and other donors will assess the need for further
investments to further improve quality of basic education, including secondary education.
14.   Other Donors' Involvement in Education. The education sector also benefits
from broad support from the donor community. USAID has provided important support
for primary education. DANIDA is supporting special education; Irish Aid is supporting
community education; JICA is supporting rehabilitation of primary schools; the



6
Netherlands are supporting teacher training; the Department for International
Development (DFID-United Kingdom) is supporting inservice secondary teacher
education and is providing direct support to the UPE policy as well; EU/OPEC is
supporting rehabilitation of technical colleges, colleges of commerce and national college
of business studies; UNICEF is supporting adult education; and UNDP/GTZ/AFDB are
supporting re-equipping and furnishing of Makerere University. Regular donor
consultations are organized periodically by the MOE, and there is close cooperation in
working with MOE on UPE.
15.   Since 1993, the achievement of the policy goals for primary education has
depended significantly on the current Primary Education Reform Programme (PERP)
supported by the World Bank Primary Education and Teacher Development Project and
by USAID. Although the educational inputs provided by PERP are sound and changes in
school management and teaching practices are observed, the program is not enough to
support the needs created by UPE.
16.   Lessons Learned. The contribution of IDA in education investment dates back to
1967, making Uganda one of the first countries that received financial assistance for
education from the World Bank. Implementation of the IDA-financed education projects
suggests the following key lessons: (i) the need for a detailed analysis of the magnitude of
project recurrent costs burden on the Borrower and of sources for its financing to take
place at appraisal, in particular for learning materials and teachers' salaries; (ii) the need
to thoroughly appraise risks and take appropriate precautions during disturbed country
conditions; and (iii) the importance of informing and involving local communities in
design and implementation of education investment interventions. The experience of
expanding access to primary education in Tanzania and Malawi indicates the need to
guarantee financial support to cover a minimum number of education inputs, specifically
teachers, classrooms and textbooks.
17.   Value Added. The most important source of value added by Bank support is its
comparative worldwide experience in the sector, which would help to provide technical
advice in education and financing issues, facilitating donor support for the sector and
contributing to develop consensus around acceptable policies.
C. Policy Framework
18.   Borrower Commitment. One of the most important recommendations of the
Ugandan Government's policy for education, fully described in its White Paper on
education (Education for National Integration and Development, 1992), is the
universalization of primary education. Starting in 1997, the GOU has initiated
implementation of the policy by abolishing tuition fees for the majority of students
attending primary education. To support UPE, the Government's strategy, as
characterized in the Background to the Budget document, is to shift government
resources from secondary and tertiary institutions, particularly where they are being used



7
for non-instructional subsidies. The Ugandan government is also committed to
improving teacher salaries. In 1996/97 the government increased the minimum pay for
trained teachers from Sh 49,000 to Sh 72,000 per month. This raise helps assure a living
wage, as estimated by the Ministry of Public Service (MPS) for the first time.
19.   Within the GOU's curre:nt plan for the reduction of poverty, there is a strong
emphasis on education, based on the correlation between higher education levels,
particularly for women, and improved social indicators and productive capacity. The
Government's strategy of reducing poverty by increasing primary school enrollment
triggered the shifting of Government expenditure noted above, toward primary education
and away from non-instructional subsidies at higher levels. As a result of this strategy,
there has been a reduction in parents' private contributions for primary education and an
increase in cost-sharing for those attending higher education levels.
20.   The recommendations in the White Paper chart an ambitious and appropriate
course of action. Support for primary education as reflected in the UPE policy is
admirable and is fully supported by the Bank. Assistance to the Government to achieve
and sustain quality provisions of universal primary education is an important next step for
the World Bank. However, it is essential to find a growth rate toward UPE that is
financially and administratively sustainable. Sustaining UPE requires programmatic cost
sharing which builds on demonstrated willingness to pay local taxes, strong community
ownership, decentralization, accountability to parents, and also targeting subsidies to the
poorest. UPE has clearly benefited the poorest families.
21.   It is important to note that education spending in Uganda cannot continue to be so
low if human capital levels are to be raised sufficiently to have an economic impact. The
question of whether the Government be able to increase expenditures for primary
education to around 4.0 percent of GDP (the level of expenditure necessary to finance the
UPE policy in the near future) is a central focus of this operation. At the same time,
efforts to improve efficiency and equity within the education sector should not await
improved revenue performance nor international support. It is however clear that the
sustainability of any coverage increase will be jeopardized without substantial inter
sectoral allocations.
22.   Finally, public sector reforms are a crucial prerequisite for successful reform of
the education sector. The MOE needs to catch up with the recent changes in the public
sector. The role of the MOE should increasingly be focused on equalizing the
opportunity for schooling among richer and poorer regions and in making schooling
accessible to presently excluded groups. UPE is a significant effort to support some of
these policies.



8
V.   THE PROPOSED OPERATION
A. Objectives of the Proposed Operation
23.   The policy of providing free primary education for up to four children per family,
the UPE policy, has led to a registration of about 5.3 million children for this academic
year, almost twice the enrollment for the previous year. This dramatic increase was not
fully expected and the Government is under significant pressure to develop short term
strategies to deal with it. There is concern that unless some actions are taken, the quality
of education provision will deteriorate, causing a backlash to the UPE policy and
subsequent declines in primary school participation, particularly by the poor.
24.   The purpose of this sector adjustment operation is to provide core budget support
to promote and further develop the UPE policy. Consistent with this policy, DFID has
recently announced a grant of UK pounds 20 million to support UPE. Other coordinated
donor activity will focus on the accompanying reforms that are urgently needed to
improve the performance and organization of the education system in the context of the
UPE policy. This operation is designed to support the Government's own priority in
achieving UPE while also complementing other donors' interventions. In addition to
providing the budgetary support required for the Government to implement its education
program, the operation will work to improve the allocation of resources, the efficiency in
the use of resources, and the quality and availability of education inputs. Attention will
also be given to overall sector management, planning, budgeting and information
systems. The adjustment operation will be critical in assuring that the resources exist to
sustain the growth in enrollment by assuring proper financial disbursements and
distribution of education inputs.
25. Policy Objectives. The proposed IDA operation would finance about 25 percent of
the total budget for primary education for the FY97-00. There are four measures
underlying this operation which support the implementation of UPE, as follows:
A. Improved Allocation of Resources
It will be critical to maintain measures promoting the increased priority in
resource allocation to primary education. The implementation of the UPE policy
itself is the first step to improve allocation of resources. The second step is the
reduction of public financed enrollment in tertiary education. The Government is
already doing this. For example, for the 1993 academic year, 10 percent of total
enrollment at Makerere were private students, paying full fees and by the 1996
academic year, only two years later, private enrollment increased to 24 percent.
The Government needs to ensure sufficient financial resources to implement the
UPE policy, in particular to pay additional teachers, (mostly retired teachers hired



9
on a temporary contract basis at the district level), including teacher salaries
arrears. Training for new teachers will be mostly provided by the PETDP project,
and provisions have been made to provide for this training using the available
infrastructure. Primary education spending is expected to be about two fold in
FY98/99 compared to FY95/96 in real terms. As a percent of total government
budget, public primary education allocation will move from about 13 percent in
the FY96/97 to about 18 percent in the FY99/00.
With the abolition of tuition fees some have argued that the communities will not
be as active in school matters as before, when private financing was needed.
Traditionally, private contributions were about 50 percent of total financing for
primary education. As it is critical to keep the community involved in school
activities, both to increase the total resources available and to support quality, it
will continue to be necessary to encourage the mobilization of parents and
community involvement to increase resources for investment and recurrent cost
financing of primary education. According to the policy, parents can contribute to
some inputs, like food and educational materials, but many officials and parents
remain confused as to what parental contribution may be. At appraisal the
preparation team discussed and agreed with the Government the need to clarify its
policy regarding parental financing and involvement in school activities.
B. Increased Efficiency in the Use of Resources
Measures promoting the efficient use of resources are required to increase access
at marginal cost. In order to increase efficiency in teacher and classroom
utilization, the Government will introduce double shift teaching in selected grades
in a small number of schools in 1999 and under voluntary agreements. The use of
double shifting will be a necessary temporary transition policy as it would be
financially impossible to build all the classrooms the country needs in the short-
run. Multigrade teaching will be piloted as a way to provide education services
to children in remote areas and in schools with small numbers of students per
class. The excess supply of teachers will be avoided. Also, as an additional
quality and efficiency measure, classroom construction will be expanded through
parallel investments of communities, private sector and Government.
C. Protecting Quality Inputs
There are important measures which need to be adopted to maintain the quality of
education. To increase the supply and quality of textbooks and instructional
materials for primary level, budget support will be provided to get textbooks,
based on a ratio of 1:3 for math and English textbooks. Teacher training will be
strengthened by extending the Teacher Development and Management System,
TDMS.



10
D. Strengthening Sector Management
To improve the operation and management capacity of the sector, the GOU has
been discussing the establishment of an Education Management Information
System (EMIS) as a tool to develop indicators to monitor school progress by the
education authorities. The EMIS will set clear and attainable objectives relating
to key outputs of the Ministry of Education and measuring the performance of the
sector in achieving those objectives. Other actions supported by IDA will also
help with the strengthening of the management in the sector. For example,
SACIII will improve the management and efficiency of public expenditure,
including introduction of an outcome-oriented budgetary process (including the
education sector), the strengthening of the poverty focus of public spending and of
the expenditure management under decentralization, and accountability and
transparency. The introduction of an outcome oriented budget is a condition of
second tranche release of SACIII and will be monitored in the context of SACIII.
Improvement of management of teacher payroll is expected to be achieved at the
end of the operation. Teacher payroll management will be strengthened. Finally,
a system for monitoring the accountability of public funds allocated to districts
and schools will be implemented.
B. Conditions of Tranche Release
26.   Agreements and Understandings Reached and Monitorable Actions. The
Government's policy has been set out in the Letter of Education Sector Policy and in the
Policy Matrix presented in Annexes 1 and 2. The Government has fulfilled the following
conditions: (i) an UPE dissemination strategy with different products aimed at district
offices, headteachers, teachers, and with a plan for implementation from March 1988
incorporating current activities and a budget (this includes the clarification of parental
contribution to support UPE); (ii) a finance plan satisfactory to IDA for UPE; (iii) a draft
policy paper on options for double shifting including voluntary participation and
incentives; (iv) formalized policy on provision, distribution and utilization of textbooks
and instructional materials; (v) a plan for the expansion of in-service teacher training to
cover all districts; (vi) guidelines to all districts and schools for recruitment, deployment
and payment of teachers, finalize action plan to update teachers payroll, and prepare
financing plan to clear teachers' salary arrears; (vii) guidelines issued to districts and
schools for accounting for public funds; and (viii) design an exercise for districts to
conduct educational development planning, including school mapping. The first tranche
of US$ 75 million under the Grant will be released upon signing and effectiveness of the
IDA Development Grant Agreement. Conditions of effectiveness requires that by April
28th, 1998 the aggregate amount of teachers' salary payment made to primary school
teachers does not exceed Shs 75 billion (the salary estimate for primary teachers wage bill
for ten months for FY 97/98) and the number of primary school teachers on the payroll
does not exceed that determined by the formula specified in the staff establishment policy



11
by district; and issuing of letter of termination to all redundant primary school teachers.
The second and third tranches will be disbursed under the IDA Development Credit
Agreement for US$ 45 million and US$ 35 million respectively.
27.   The following conditions would need to be fulfilled prior to second tranche
release: (i) UPE dissemination activities targeted at district offices, headteachers,
teachers, and parents underway with particular attention to encourage parental and
community participation; (ii) allocate to primary education at least 19.5% of total
government recurrent budget (excluding statutory and interest payments) in FY98/99;
(iii) adopt a voluntary double shifting policy and implement a campaign to promote it for
the 1999 academic year; (iv) complete policy paper on multigrade teaching with
implementation plan for demonstration sites in at least two districts; (v) complete a study
on primary teacher supply and demand and approve an action plan to implement the
recommendations of the study; (vi) adopt a plan on classroom construction in which
government, communities, and parents participate by piloting alternative modalities; (vii)
allocate at least 2.8 percent of total primary education recurrent budget to textbooks and
instructional materials in the FY98/99 budget; (viii) commence implementation of the
expansion of phases IV and V of the TDMS; (ix) implement an action plan to update
teachers' payroll and assure all arrears are paid; (x) furnish to IDA evidence that a
monitoring system for the accountability of public funds allocated to districts and schools
is operational based on a random sample of 350 schools in at least four districts; (xi)
complete educational development plans (including school maps) in at least 12 districts
and furnish to IDA evaluation forms from districts officials; and, (xii) design an
Education Management Information System.
28.   The following additional conditions would need to be fulfilled prior to third
tranche release: (i) allocate to primary education recurrent budget at least 17.5% of total
government recurrent budget (excluding statutory and interest payments) for FY99/00;
(ii) report on the experience of the implementation of the double shifting in the 1999
academic year; (iii) pilot in at least two schools in each of two districts the introduction of
multigrade teaching; (iv) implement the action plan to prevent excess supply of teachers,
including the closure of teacher colleges not deemed to be cost effective; (v) assess
different modalities of classroom construction; (vi) provide to IDA the actual expenditure
of budgetary item for textbooks and instructional materials for the 1998 academic year,
and keep same allocation for textbooks and instructional materials in FY99/00 budget;
(vii) assure all active teachers should be on payroll and paid in a timely manner; and (viii)
complete educational development plans (including school maps) in an additional 20
districts and furnish to IDA evaluation forms from districts officials; and, (ix) furnish
evidence to IDA of EMIS implementation.
29.   The following five impacts are expected from ESAC:
* wide understanding of respective roles within UPE by parents, school, communities,
districts, and central government;
* increased resources available to primary education;



12
* increased efficiency in the use of public resources;
* protecting the quality of teaching and learning;
* strengthening education sector management.
C. Supervision Plan
30.   Borrower's Leading Role. The overall coordination and implementation of ESAC
will be the responsibility of MOE and MOF. These ministries and others involved in
implementation, including the Ministries of Planning and Economic Development, Public
Service and Local Government, will work jointly with IDA in-country supervision
missions. They will continue to coordinate and support provision of other donors in the
education sector. In addition, MOE would be responsible for preparing the groundwork
for supervision missions as well as organizing quarterly project reviews with various
stakeholders and submitting regular progress reports to IDA. A completion report will be
compiled by the Government for IDA within six months of Credit closing.
31.  IDA Supervision. Given the nature of the proposed operation, adequate
supervision resources would need to be provided by IDA. The Bank will monitor
implementation of the agreements and will integrate lessons learned in future operations.
The project will be monitored by professional staff based in the Kampala office as well as
by regular supervision missions. Monitoring of the planned actions include the
following: (i) review of draft budget and statement on education sector expenditure
prepared by the MOF; (ii) provision of teachers, textbooks and classrooms; (iii) double
shift will be reviewed through statistics and sampled visits to schools; (iv) designing and
implementing of an accountability mechanism for the conditional grants; and (v)
establishing of the Education Management Information System, including school
mapping exercise conducted by the MOE and the districts. Requirements for supervision
are estimated at about 60 staff weeks, including consultants, over three fiscal years. The
supervision resources will be financed out of IDA's administrative budget.
SUPERVISION PLAN (in staff weeks)
Fiscal Year              FY98              FY99               FYOO
HQ Supervision            2                  6                  2
RM Supervision             4                 6                  4
Missions                  4                  12                 20
TOTAL                     10                 24                 26
Note: FY refers to WB fiscal years.



13
32.   The detailed plan for supervision is presented in the following table:
TIMETABLE FOR IN-COUNTRY SUPERVISION
Planned Date              Activity           Expected Skills (Staff weeks)
February/March 1998  Supervision mission to assess   Task Manager (1)
compliance for Board        Education Specialist (1)
presentation and agree on next  Economist (1)
steps
September 1998      Supervision mission to assess   Task Manager (2)
progress in implementation of   Education Specialist (2)
the program                 Operation Officer (2)
March 1999          Supervision mission to evaluate Task Manager (2)
whether second tranche actions  Education Specialist (2)
have been met and assess    Economist (2)
progress towards meeting third
tranche actions
September 1999      Supervision mission to assess   Task Manager (2)
progress in implementation of   Education Specialist (2)
the program                 Economist (2)
March 2000          Supervision mission to evaluate Task Manager (2)
whether third tranche release    Education Specialist (2)
actions have been met       Economist (2)
June 2000           Final supervision mission and   Task Manager (2)
implementation completion   Education Specialist (2)
report                      Country Economist (2)
Operation Officer (2)
D. Credit Administration
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements:
33.   Amount of IDA Financing, Use of Funds, and Tranching. The proposed IDA
financing credit/grant would be SDR 114.7 million (US$155 million equivalent). The
borrower/recipient would be the Republic of Uganda. The Operation would be disbursed
in three tranches of US$75 million, US$45 million, and US$35 million for FY97/98,
FY98/99 and FY99/00 respectively. These tranches would help Uganda fill its budgetary
financing gap for the primary education sector, essential to maintain a sound
implementation of the UPE policy, within the framework of a sound financial and
macroeconomic program. The first tranche would be released upon Board approval and
effectiveness of the IDA Development Grant and the IDA Development Credit



14
Agreements. The other two tranches would be subject to satisfactory implementation of
the reform program; and the applicable relevant conditions of tranche release; they are
scheduled to be disbursed in May 1999 and in May 2000 at the end of the fiscal year.
The final draft policy matrix specifying the content and timing of tranche release
conditions, and performance targets was developed and agreed with the GOU during
appraisal.
34.   Disbursement. Disbursement arrangements will follow the simplified procedures
approved by the Board on February 1, 1996. The Government of Uganda will open an
account in the Bank of Uganda. Upon IDA notification of tranche release, proceeds of
the IDA Credit and the IDA Grant will be deposited by IDA in this account at the request
of the Government of Uganda. Although a routine audit of the account will not be
required, IDA reserves the right to require it.
35.   Management, Monitoring and Accounts. The MOF will be the Governmental
agency responsible for overall coordination of the proposed program, while the MOE is
responsible for the implementation of the education sector reform. IDA will work closely
with MOF and MOE staff for the supervision of the program, which will be mainly
conducted from the Resident Mission. The MOF has been successfully managing several
structural adjustment credits as well as the Economic and Financial Management Project.
Bank staff would continue to coordinate internally and with IMF staff to ensure adequate
monitoring of key sectoral and macroeconomic policy indicators.
E. Environmental Aspects
36.   None of the activities foreseen by the project are anticipated to have any negative
impact on environment. In accordance with IDA policies for adjustment operations, no
environmental rating has been assigned.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
37.   The operation will assist the Government to improve the comparatively low and
stagnant level of primary education and, indirectly, improve secondary education
coverage by opening up opportunities for access to secondary education in places where
enrollment levels have been low.
38.   Economic Benefits. Social rates of return for primary and secondary education in
Uganda are about 16 percent and 8 percent respectively. As a result, this investment will
be beneficial to the society at large. Other benefits would be the following: (a) increased
equity of educational opportunities for the disadvantaged (mainly rural and poor and in
particular girls); (b) reduced illiteracy due to greater participation in primary education;
and (c) increased efficiency of all education levels, resulting in resource savings that



15
would contribute to system expansion and improvements. Finally, estimates of the
welfare gain arising from externalities on women's health (improvements in female
fertility, child and maternal mortality rates) shows a positive benefit-cost ratio of
investing in girls' education; the ratio is about 1:4 (1:2 assuming that the benefits
materialize 15 years after the girls' additional year of schooling). In Uganda, providing
1,000 girls with an extra year of primary schooling would cost about US$25,000 to the
Government, and even after discounting to take account of the time lag between when
girls are educated and when they grow up and have children, the social benefits of
educating girls are enough (about US$94,000) to cover the cost without taking any
account of the market return. For a more detailed presentation of the rate of return and
the cost-benefit analyses see Annex 4.
39.   Target Population. The expansion of the system will benefit primarily children
from the poorest families, especially girls, who traditionally have had less access to
education. As girls and boys have registered this year in similar proportions, the
operation will support greater equality of educational opportunities. The re-introduction
of double shift teaching will decrease unit cost by covering more students with the same
capital investment. By supporting UPE, the proposed project will address the issue
related to lower and inequitable access in primary and secondary education. It will also
ensure that financial constraints do not lead to declines in educational quality and a
subsequent fall in participatory rates.
40.   Risks. The project would support education inputs that normally are
implemented on a regular basis (i.e., hiring of teachers, provision of textbooks,
educational materials and classrooms), as well as the recently introduced conditional
grants to cover for non-wage expenditures at the school level, as part of the
decentralization policy. During the design and initial implementation of the UPE policy,
MOE officials have had ample opportunity to internalize the reforms to be supported.
One main risk lies in the Central Government's ability to continue to allocate increased
resources for the education sector within the context of the overall budget. In addition
funds allocated may not reach the intended beneficiaries because of weaknesses in the
current accountability system. For these, budget monitoring will be carried out in close
cooperation with IDA to guarantee that resources provided are in fact allocated to the
education sector and spent on the agreed inputs. A final risk is the one of capacity for
classroom construction. To deal with this it has been agreed that the MOE will use
several cost-effective approaches.
41.   Poverty Category. Because the program supports the expansion of primary
education, it is mainly targeted at rural communities in poor areas of the country and
where the education indicators are the lowest in the country. It falls 100 percent within
the category of Poverty Reduction and Human Resources Development.



16
VI. RECOMMENDATION
42.   Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed Credit and Grant would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve them.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By: Sven Sandstrom
Managing Director
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 27, 1998



Telephone:   234700/9 (10 lines) Kampala              Ministry of Finance       Pae   of8
PO Box 8147PaeIo 
Fax:        230163                                          Kampala
Telegrams   Finsec"                                         Uganda
Email: finance@imul.com
In any correspondence cn        nTH RELc OF OGCANfA
this subject please quote No.
12 February, 1998
Mr CalListo Madavo
Vice President, Africa Region
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Madavo:
Re: Letter of Education Sector Policy
1.   The purpose of this letter is to describe the education sector policies that we plan to
folLow during the implementation of the proposed Education Sector Adjustnent
Credit. Specific actions are included in the attached Policy Matrix, and have to do
with disseminating the Universal Primary Education Policy (UPE), increasing
resources available to UPE, increasing efficiency in the use of public resources,
protecting quality of teaching and learning, and strengthening sector management.
The letter discusses each of these actions in further detail.
Overall Development Strategy
2.   The Government of Uganda has been implementing a solid program of stabilisation,
economic recovery, and structural adjustment. As indicated in the most recent
Policy Framework Paper distributed to World Banlks Board in November 1997 and
as reflected in the most recent Country Assistance Strategy, the public expenditurc
strategr concentrates on those activities in which goverment must play a leading
funding role. ln particular it concentrates on those, such as education, which are a
priority for the government as reflected in the recent Poverty Eradication Action
Plan of 1997.
Education Sector Policy
3.   Uganda's education sector suffered substantially in the 1970s and 1980s. Following
the restoration of peace in 1986, the government initiated the process of reforming
and reconstructing the education sector by establishing an Education Policy Review
Commission (EPRC). Following the recornmendations issued in 1989 by EPRC, a
detailed government White Paper identified improved access to education as one of
the priorities for the sector. One central goal is to universalise primary education in
Uganda. In February 1997 the Ministry of Education introduced the Universal
Primary Education Policy (UPE) to ensure that educational access, quality, equity,
and relevance are affordable to the majority of children of school-going age (6 - 12).
Since the initial implemnentation of the policy in the 1997 school year, more than
2.5 million additional pupils enrolled in primaxy education and remained in the
system  during the whole academic year. The proposed Education  Sector
Adjustment Credit (ESAC) will provide support to the government as it addresses
certain essential policy issues. As part of the ESAC, the Ministry of Education (MoE)
will finalise the Education Strategic lnvestnent Plan (ESIP), following consultation
with the donor co=munity and other stakeholders, creating the underpinming for
investaent in the sector in the mid-term. The following issues are to be addressed
by the ESAC:



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 8
1.    Clarification of the UPE Policy
4.   The main objective of the UPE is to provide the minimum necessary inputs and
resources to enable every Ugandan child of school-going age to enter and remain at
school to complete the primary education cycle. This goal should be accomplished
by 2003.
5.   The policy objectives of providing UPE include: (i) establishing, providing and
maintaining quality of educatiorn to promote national human resource development;
(ii) transforming society in fundamental ways; (iii) facilitating the entry, retention,
and completion of the primary education cycle for all children; (iv) making basic
education equitable, accessible and relevant to the nation; and (v) ensuring that
education is affordable to the majority of Ugandans. The rapid implementation of
UPE has caused some misunderstanding concerning the actual details of the policy.
6.    Under the programme, the Government's responsibilities are to: (i) pay statutory
fees for four children per family and all orphans; (ii) provide instructional materials,
teachers guides, syllabus, and curriculum (iii) provide pre-and in-service training
for teachers; (iv) provide teachers' salaries in government grant-aided schools; and
(v) assist with construction of school buildings. Districts should provide: (i)
ftrniture; (ii) clean and safe water within reach of school; (iii) land or premises
where teaching and leaming can take place; (iv) assistance in the construction of
school buildings; and (v) supervision and inspection of schools. Parents are
responsible for: (i) exercise books, pencils (ii) meals; (iii) clothing for their children;
(iv) transport to and from school; and (v) assistance in the construction of the
school buildings. These responsibilities will be clarified to all parties involved. The
Ministries of Education, Public Service, Local Government, Planning and Economic
Development, and Finance will work closely to agree on the content of the
dissemination campaign and will ensure that the campaign is carried out smoothly,
starting in 1998 and continuing during the next two years.
7.   A national dissemination strategy is intended to make sure that all district staff,
teachers and head-teachers, communities and parents understand the policy and
their roles in relationship to the policy. The strategr, incorporating al efforts to
date, will be prepared with an implementation plan and budget. This disseination
exercise will require MoE to conduct a national public campaign using multiple
channels of communication. It will involve the media, including radio and
newspapers, posters, as well as other materials designed to reach those in remote
areas and those who lack literacy skills. As part of its dissemination effort, the
Government will specifically create materials to be publicly displayed at all private
community schools to inform both parents and teachers that government resources
for these schools at this time extend only to capitation grants, and that full grant-
aiding (paying of teachers' salaries) will only take place as resources allow and
following assessment of all criteria for acceptance. The MoE has established a
committee, the UPE Implementation Committee, expressly for defining and
implementing the UPE Policy. Policy decision taken by this committee will be
communicated in a variety of ways. Specifically the methods to be used will include:
(i) circular and guidelines sent from the MoE to Local Council 5 chairpersons, Chief
Admirnistrative Officers (CAOs), District Education Officers (DEOs), District
Inspectors of Schools (ISs) and Resident District Commissioners (RDCs) in all
districts; (ii) seminars and workshops with headteachers, teachers, parents at the
district (including LC 1) level, and the national level; (iii) intersectoral briefs; (iv)
policy statements to parliament and cabinet; and (v) use of Co-ordinating Centre
Tutors to assist in sensitising the teachers and the community.



ANNEX I
Page 3of8
2.   Increasing Resources Available to UPE
8.    The GOU will pursue these objectives by reforming the pattem  of resource
mobilisation and resource allocation in the sector, and through appropriate
institutional reform and strengthening, and this trend will continue. The
elimination of primary tuition fees for four children per family and the elimination of
Parents and Teachers Association (PTA) fees in rural primary schools, and the
ceilings imposed in municipal schools, have already relieved the household
financial constraints on enrolment especially for low income fnmilies.
9.    Education subsidies are greatest at the university level, relatively less for secondary
and primary teacher training, and least at the primary education level. This
structure is inequitable, since post-primary education pupils, especially at the
university level, tend to come mainly from relatively better-off households. At the
primary level, the burden of fees traditionally led to school dropout and low
enrolment, mainly among poor households. With the UPE policy, and with the
charge for education service at post primary levels, this traditional inequity of
education subsidies will recede. Untargeted across-the-board subsidisation will be
substantially reduced. Boarding subsidies at the secondary level have already been
discontinued, and boarding subsidies at the university level will be progressively
phased out. The increased mobilisation of resources from pupils and their parents
at post-primary levels will allow a greater share of Central Government expenditure
to be devoted to primary education as reflected in the budget of FY 97/98 and
subsequent years. The government wi allocate to the primary education recurrent
budget at least 19.5 % of total government recurrent expenditure (excluding
statutory and interest payments) in FY98/99 and 17.5 % in FY99/00.
10.  The public campaign (see Par 7) will also address how parents can support primary
education. Although the policy eliminates all school fees, the policy does permit
parents' support in other essential areas such as school construction. Specific
programs will be developed to help parents better understand the role they can play
in supporting primary education, as part of the dissemination effort.
3.   Increasing Efficiency in the Use of Resources
11.  The Government!s policy is designed to increase efficiency in the use of public
resources. Efficiency measures at the primary education levels will include: (i)
introduction of a revised Staff Establishment formula for primary schools; (ii)
double shift teaching; (iii) multigrade teaching strategies in schools with small
classes; and (iv) rationalising of teacher training programs.
Revised Staff Estabrishment Formula
12.  Prior to the introduction of UPE, the provision of teachers.to schools was based on
one teacher for forty pupils per class plus one teacher. With the great increase in
enrolments, the number of teachers required would have been 155,178 in 1997.
This figure was revised to one teacher for 55 pupils (or per class) - the staff
establishment under this ratio would be 114,267, an efficiency saving of nearly
41,000 teacher places. The ratio will be revised, as funds become available, to
increase the numbers of teachers, with regard to the number of pupils in the
system and the level of teacher salaries.
Double Shifting
13.  As a further efficiency measure, double shift classes have been built into the stiff
establishment ratio for all primary schools, by providing one teacher position for
110 pupils in Primary 1 and 2 classes. Double shifting involves using physical and
human resources twice in one day to accommodate two cohorts of pupils and the
staff establishment assumes that this will take place. Effectively this means that no
school has any stnffing advantage by not introducing double shift teaching. This



ANNEX I
Page 40f8
reduced the staff establishment from 114,267 to approximately 91,000, a further
saving of 23,000 places. With the introduction of the amended Staff Establishment
Ratio in 1998, there are limited further efficiency gains to be made for these classes.
As the majority of upper primary classes have less than 55 pupils (the current
pupil:teacher ratio) little can be gained in efficiency by splitting classes with more
than 55 pupils. Some further gains could be made by considering other options
such as the one teacher teaching P3 in the morning and P4 in the afternoon.
Provision of teachers' salaries to districts will now be based on the revised
establishment and districts are being informed of this with lists of establishments
for all government grant-aided schools. As the large cohort of pupils which enrolled
in P1 in 1997 moves through the system it will be important to consider the class of
this cohort (e.g. P3 in 1999) for fiurther double shifting.
Multigrade Teaching
14.  Multigrade schools combine pupils of different ages and abilities (enrolled in
different grades) in one classroom under the direction of one teacher. Multigrade
schooling can be a cost-effective means of expanding access and increasing learning
achievement. In the case of Uganda, a number of schools operate with very smal
classes that could be combined if teachers were properly trained in multigrade
teaching. The first step in Uganda will be to explore the concept and relevance to
the current needs in the country. By April 30, 1999, a policy paper will be
completed that examines the issue and addresses how a national pilot project could
be launched. The paper will address how to pilot at least two multigrade schools in
each of at least two districts and how these schools could serve as an experimental
training program for others that might be willing to implement the policy
voluntarily. The paper will also include a strategy for marketing the policy to be
implemented in the 1999 school year.
Teacher Supply
15.  The MoE will complete a study on primary teacher supply and demand and approve
an action plan by April 30, 1999. The current system does not take into account the
number of teachers that are needed or can be afforded. This study will define the
respective roles and responsibilities of pre-service and in-service teacher education,
identify responsible authorities, and determine the number of Teachers Trnining
Colleges required to meet the demand for primary teacher education during the
next five years. The MoE will address the potential closure of Teacher Training
Colleges based on cost-effectiveness criteria. By April 30, 2000 there will be
complete implementation of the recommendations of the report, including closure of
colleges.
4.    Protecting Quality Inputs
On-going Teacher Support
16   Teachers are one of the most cost-effective education inputs in Uganda. In order to
improve the quality of teaching, Government has been supporting inservice
trnining. Teachers' salaries have improved over the last few years and the
Government is committed to maintaining the current levels. The Government wMl
continue giving priority to teacher training, providing a balanced program of pre-
service training, upgrading untrained teachers, and expanding in-service training,
by extending the scheme supported by the Teacher Development and Management
System (TDMS) to cover the whole country.
Double Shitt Teaching
17   Double shift teaching for P1 and P2 has been built into the staff establishment of all
primary schools. However, the physical arrangements of how individual teachers
will be allocated to individual classes will be a matter for schools. The quality of
teaching may suffer if schools choose to place one teacher with 110 pupils in a



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 8
single shift arrangement. Double shifting will be selectively applied as a temporary
measure by schools in consultation with district administrators. The policy could
allow for participating teachers to receive a monetary incentive to teach a morning
and aftemoon session with different pupils. The policy, where appropriate, is
appealing in that it provides a mechanism by which to reduce class size without
needing more physical space or additional teaching staff. The policy will be further
explored in a draft policy paper to be completed by February 28,1998. The paper
will examine how double shifting might be an appropriate policy to accommodate
enrolment growth across all grades of primary education. The paper will also
include an implementation plan that presents a strategy to market the policy,
together with a budget for implementation. The marketing plan will address how to
make the policy appeal to pupils, parents, and teachers as it changes the notion of
schooling that is currently practised. Marketing will begin at least three months
before the 1999 school year to assure implementation in 1999 school year. The
MoE will monitor the implementation to see how many schools respond and what
effect the policy has on reducing class size and improving school quality.
Instructional Materials
18.  The protection of the provision of textbooks and other instructional materials is also
essential to achieve quality of education. In order to achieve the goal of 90% of
schools reaching a 1:3 ratio for Mathematics and English textbooks and 70% of
schools reaching a 1:3 ratio for Social Studies and Science textbooks, the
Government will continue its policy of encouraging private sector development in
the production and distribution of these materials. The role of the public sector witl
be policy oriented (setting policies, formulating guidelines and monitoring
standards), and to facilitate a worling market in instructional materials. A
committee has been reviewing goverrnment policy in this area and will issue
recommendations by 28 February 1998. The recommendations will guide the next
procurement of instructional materials. Policy guidelines will ensure that schools
have adequate choice of instructional materials. The government will allocate. at
least 2.8% of total primary education recurrent budget to instructional materials in
FY98/99 and FY99/00. It will ensure that schools have received shipments of
instructional materials in the 1999 school year, based on a random sample survey
of at least 350 schools in each of at least four districts.
Provision of Physical Infrastructure
19.  The expansion of primary education has created an enormous demand for more
schools and classrooms. MoE will pilot at least two models for school construction
starting in the 1998 academic year and a final report assessing the experience wi
be ready by April 30, 1999. Information on the number and location of schools,
their status and their infrastructure is incomplete and just beg-nning to be
systematically mapped by district. Implementation of the pilot phase in one district
(i.e. Kumi) has been completed and launched. Plans are now under way to design a
program for countywide district level educational development plans, which will
include school mapping (collection of data on school hum an resources, educational
facilities and location). Funding has been secured for the first nine districts. An
inventory of school buildings and classes was taken during the headcount of
August 1997 and an investment fund for school construction (including
classrooms, latrines and teacher housing) is being set up to systematically provide
the necessary infrastructure.
Teacher Workforce
20   A headcount of teachers on August 1997 identified about 102,300 teachers in the
system, including gove.=ient grant-aided and some private and community
schools with UPE children. AbGut three percent were identified as ghosts (i.e. not



ANNEX I
Page 6of8
present at their schools) so about 99,000 were physically in schools. Of these,
65,000 were included on the payroll, and about 33,700 were working without being
on the payroll. Among these, more than 14,000 had been worldng before the
introduction of UPE policy, and 19,700 were hired as a result of the policy. The
number worldng in identified governzmaent schools was 89,000. Revisions to the
payroll on the basis of the headcount give a total, including all districts, of 74,139
teachers on the government primary teacher payroll as of January 31, 1998. The
staff establishment for government schools distributed on February 10 for the 1998
school year is 90,031. The government commits itself not to exceed the agreed
prmary teacher wage bill of 90.1 billion for FY 97/98. The budget estimate for this
ceiling for the 1998 academic year is equivalent to approximately 92,000 teachers,
though this number may vary, resources permitting. This allows for some schools
not contained in the headcount data set such as those in Bundibugo, and may
allow for the acceptance of some private community schools. Ceilings will be
established for each fsnancial year for the number of primary education teachers
'whose salaries will be financed by the Central Government budget (see Para 12).
The government is committed to solving the issue of teacher arrears by paying these
salaries quickly and efficiently. Appropriate mechanisms for hiring teachers and
placing them on the payroll will be completed by January 31, 2000. The
government wiMl design and implement a system that increases the control of
central government over primary teacher wage costs and limits its liability to only
pay teachers within the system.
5S.   Strengthening Sector Management
Recrultment, Deployment, and Payment of Teachers
21.  The Ministy of Education is committed to worlkig with other ministries to improve
the overall management of the pay roll system. As a part of strengthening the sector
management, the MoE is also worling on designing guidelines for al districts and
schools related to the recoruitment, deployment, and payment of teachers. Two sets
of guidelines have been circulated. By March 1, 1998 all teachers in excess of the
district staff establishment will have been identified and notified in writing of the
termination of their services. By March 6 CAOs will inform MoE, MoPS, MoF and
MoLO of the names and number of teachers terminated. As of April 28, 1998
schools will receive salary payments for a number of teachers not exceeding the
staff establishment distributed February 10, 1998. Chief Administrative OCiicers
and District Education Service Conmmittees will be responsible for the
implementation of this policy. The Ministry has developed and will implement a
financing plan to clear teachers' arrears by May 31, 1999. The updating of the
payroll will also assure the exclusion of ghosts. As new teachers are bired and
added to the payroll all efforts will be made to mi-imise the number of teachers that
are untrained. Priority will be given to those experienced teachers that were
previously supported by PTA funds.
Management Intormation System
22.  The Ministry of Education will also desigp an education management information
system (EMIS) to include essential inputs and outputs. A planning process that
includes representatives from other ministries as wel as practitioners will
contnbute to deciding what inputs and outputs should be gathered. The Education
Planning Department wiU be responsible for overseeing this effort. An essential part
of this EMIS will be a school mapping exercise, whose terms of reference wiU be
ready by February 28,1998. By April 30, 2000 the system wil be operational in at
least 20 districts.



ANNEX I
Page 7 of 8
Implementation of Accountability System
23.  The Ministry will issue guidelines to districts and schools for accounting for public
funds consistent with the government accounting manual and regulations. The
monitoring system that is implemented will follow the Guidelines for Transparency
and Accountability already issued to schools. Responsibilities for MoE, districts and
schools are as follows:
(a) MoE will: (i) issue conditions for the UPE conditional grants and seek the
consensus of local goveznment; these conditions will be circulated to all levels of
local government and UPE beneficiary schools; (ii) submit requests for release of
funds to Ministry of Finance. The requests will include a schedule of districts and
urban authorities and the respective number of schools, number of teachers, total
enrolment; and funds allocated, with copies of the requisition to Auditor General,
IGG, Ministry of Local Government. The Ministry of Finance win release the funds
to the CAOs with a schedule of enrolment for the respective districts. MoF will
transfer the money to CAOs specifically for the UPE program and MoF will publish
monthly conditional transfers.
(b) Districts will: (i) notify each government-aided primary school in the district the
total amount budgeted for salary and non-salary expenses for the school year-, (ii)
display publicly the total amount received from the Central Government in
conditional grants for salary and non-salay primary school expenditure for UPE;
and (iii) display publicly the full list of government aided primary schools receiving
the non-salary capitation grants from these conditional grants and the amounts
gven to each school. The list will be by sub-county, city, and municipal/urban
authority, and will be displayed at the district administration office and sub-county
notice board, and the list will be updated monthly at the time of the distribution of
conditional grants.
(c) Schools will: (i) display the total amount budgeted by the district for salary and
non-salary expenses for the school year; (ii) display the monthly amount received
from the district for salary and non-salary expenses for the school year, updated
monthly; (iii) these amounts will be displayed publicly at the school, accessible to
any parent and community member, (iv) have meetings between headteachers and
staff to agree on priority items/activities on which expenditure is to be incurred and
in line with MoE guidelines; and (v) make sure the headteachers send monthly
accountability reports to the CAO through the DEO and copies of accountability
reports wMll be sent to the chairperson of the School Management Committee and
sub-county chief. Failure to account for releases in a term will lead to disciplinary
action against the responsible officer.
24.  The government will monitor the implementation of this accountability system for
public funds using a random sample of 350 schools in at least four districts.



ANNEX I
Page 8 of 8
25.  Finally, with the help of the donor community, Uganda can succeed in delivering
primary education to almaost double the number of pupils previously enrolled at the
same level of quality. This wil require firther investment in teachers, instructional
materials, and construction of school infastructure. We are hopeful that. the
actions outlined in this letter and in the policy matrix can be achieved. We are
looldng forward to continued collaboration with IDA to achieve these objectives.
Yorrs sincerdy,
J.S>ayanjikangi                             Amanya Mushega        .2
Minister of Pxnce                           Minister of Education



ANNEX 2
Page I of 4
UGANDA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
POLICY MATRIX
Objective        Action Prior to Board         Actions to be Taken Prior to the  Actions to be Taken Prior to    Outcomes by December 31,
Presentation - Feb. 98       Release of Second Tranche -    the Release of Third Tranche   2000
_______________                                May 1999                      - May 2000
I. Clarify UPE   1. ESIP approved by MoE
Policy               following consultation with
donor community
2. Design UPE dissemination   Dissemination activities targeted   Continue dissemination effort    Wide understanding of
strategy with different   at each group underway         and monitoring of results    respective roles by parents,
products aimed at district    nationwide                                               schools, communities,
offices, headteachers,                                                                 districts, Central
teachers, and parents, with a  Provide IDA with copies of  Provide IDA with copies of  Government, and donor
plan for implementation   dissemination materials        dissemination materials       community.
from March 1998
incorporating current
activities, and a budget
II. Increase     1. The borrower has included in  Allocate to primary education  Allocate to primary education    Maintain 1997 enrolment
Resources     the education sector financial    recurrent budget at least 19.5% of  recurrent budget at least 17.5%   levels.
available to    projections a finance plan for the  the total government recurrent  of total government recurrent
UPE           support of UPE policy for FY  budget (excluding statutory and    budget (excluding statutory and
97/98, FY 98/99, and FY 99/00   interest payments) in FY 98/99    interest payments) in FY 99/00
2. Clarify in writing the role of   Launch public campaign to  Continue public campaign to  Sustained parents
parents' monetary and in-kind    encourage parent participation as  encourage parent participation    understanding of their role in
contribution in support of UPE    part of overall dissemination  as part of overall dissemination   supporting primary education
as part of the dissemination  effort                        effort
efforts                     I



ANNEX 2
Pnge2 or4
Ill. Increase         Complete draftl policy paper on       1. As a temlporary nicasure, adopt   Implement policy ror 1999               Pupil teaclier ratio of 1:55
Cfficiciicy in    optioi lsr ordo iblc shifling         luot)blc sillifg pot licy mid          acadeneIc yea ia indl foi rnisl I1)/A
file use ofl      ilmlisdng N'oI11noy p:llicipi lioll  imoptlcui(w11t a dslillill:olioil     wvilli ; progwss Itpol ol 01
public            anid ilit'c'llivcs i;aiipalln wilth al illllkn111viin:uliou    shoods p;Ii tklicipipi' ill cloiil,lc.
resotirces                                             plan, prodiulectsaid a bulget to)       sliiifliuig
pIromote it for tlie 1999 schiool
year
2. Coiupl Ie poliicy oi nmiltli-       Im1p lemiclit delni oust ratli'   sites    Pupil teacher ratio of 1:55
grade leeaching withll an0 f                i uiui 1ti-grade leaching ill at
ilplmentllal ioln plall for            least two scllools inl two tlislticts
deminonstia t ion sites in at least two   and promote vol lintary
districts                              participation
3. Complete a situ(ly on pl)rimalry    Implemenilt ic action plan to        lExcess supply of teachiers
teacher Suilplply and demCIand a md    prevecnt excess su)pply ofr            vill  be rcne(IeL
ap)pI'ove aii action l)l;lIl           teachers
4. Giovermilentl to decide on1 best    Release progress report oni          lEInsurc effcctivc and
conistrtictioni modality mid pilot.    classroom cons(rtictioni              sustainiable classroom
Strenlgtlhenl and coinsolidate tlhe                                          constrtrctioni
.)policy oil c lassrooln constmi iction
ill wVichliC goverInInciut, local
Commin un ities, paicunts ndu (IOIIOIS
participate
IV, Protecting        1. Adopt policy                       Allocate at least 2.8 % of total       Fturnislh to IDA evidence that        90% of schiools reaching at
quality of        recommiieindationis on provision,    primary education recurreint            schools have received sliipmienit   1:3 ratio for matlh and English
teachiniig and    d istribimlion and  til isat ion or  lbiidget in FY98 /9') to iinstinuction:l  of inmstrucdional minaterials- based    textbooks
learning          texit ooks anid oliher insinictional nImaterialIs                            onil a   0 raidoill sample of ; tolal of'
loaeriaIls th mat assure adeqIualte                                          at least 350 schiools selectedl       70% of selools reacihing at
clhoice by scilools                                                          fioim at least four districts and in   1:3 ratio for social studies
FY99/0U  allocate at least 2,8%      and sciCeIce textbooks
of total primary education
recurrent budget to instr6clional
materials



ANNIEX 2
_________                   _'itgc 3...................i  .                                                                      3 of 4
2. D)evelopadul appro)vC a plan   (Coulneice it ipletlienitatlio  of' I(lhe                               % of tintrained teachers niot
for the expansiont ol in-service  expansion or ph,ases IV and V of                                        undergoinig training, on
teachier training to cover all    the TDMS                                                                payroll will be lower tihan
districts                                                                                                 pre-UPE levels
Increased supply of refresher
corllse
V.  Strengthiening  1. Improve management of                                               iImproved coordination
sector              teachier payroll thirough                                                                              between Ministry of Public
Management          inter-minlisterial working                                                                             Service, Ministry of Finance,
group by:                                                                                             and Ministry Planning and
I-cotnomic l)evelopmuent
a)  Prepare financing plan to
clear teacliers' arrears;
b) Design and issue guidelines
to all districts and schools
for recruitmiienlt, deployment
and paynien t oflteachers in    Actioin plan lor updaling thli    IProv ide evidenie to II)DA thiat all  All active teachers on payroll
aca(lei iic year 198           payroll iimlplenicnted. All sa lary  active leachllers on payroll ate  paid in a tiitiely mn anner
including a stalf              arrears paid                        palid in a titoiely man ner
establishmnclt formutla and
withinl the total allocation for
the wage bill for teachers;
c)  Fiinalise action plan to
pdlatc teacher payroll
incluiditig:
i)     tllc cxcluisioln ofglhosts;
ii)    miniiiiisinig thc number
of teachers added to tlhc
paytoll  that ate
untrained; and



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 4
iii)   giving priority to
experienced teachers
(pre- UPE) for inclusion
in the payroll
2.  Issue guidelines to districts  Implement a monitoring system    Implement a monitoring system   Transparency in use of
and schools for           for the accountability of public    for the accountability of public  resources
accountability for public  funds allocated to districts and  funds allocated to districts and
funds consistent with     schools following the guidelines   schools following the guidelines
Government Accounting     for transparency and            for transparency and
Manual and Regulations and  accountability already issued to    accountability already issued to
prepare procedures        schools                         schools
Furnish to IDA evidence that the   Furnish to IDA evidence that the
system is being implemented    system is being implemented
based on random sample of a    based on random sample of a
total of at least 350 schools  total of at least 350 schools
selected from at least four districts  selected from at least four
districts
3.  Design terms of reference    12 districts complete educational   Further 20 districts complete    Identification of physical
for educational development  development plans (including  educational development plans   infrastructure and human
planning, including school   school maps)                 (including school maps)      resource needs
mapping, exercise to be
completed by districts and    Furnish to IDA evaluation forms
develop training manuals    from district staff trained
Design EMIS to include essential  Implementation of EMIS in at   EMIS in place
inputs and outputs             least 20 districts
Furnish to IDA sample reports
from EMIS from each district



ANNEX 3
pape I of 9
Uganda at a glance
Sub-
POVEERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan    Low-
Uganda      Africa  Income       eveopment diamond,
Population mid-1996 (nilliOns)                        19.7      600    3,229
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                             290       490      500                 Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions USS)                                5.7      294    1,601
Average annual growth, 1990-6.
Population (%J                                        3.1        2.7      1.7     GNP                            Gro
Labor force(%)                                        2.7        2.6      1.7       p                            Gross
per                  ~~~~~~primary
Moat recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                           capita                      enrollment
Povery: headcount index (% odpopulailon)               55
Urban population (% ortotal population)                13        31       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       42        52       63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 JIve births)               98        92       69                Acress to sate vwier
Child malnutrition (% or chlkren under 5)              23
Access to safe water (X ofpopulatIon)                  42         47       53
Illiteracy (% ofpopulatIon age 15+)                    38         43       34                Uganda
Gross primary enrollment (% o(schoolage population)    67         72      105
Male                                                 74         78      112          -Low-income group
Female                                               59        65       98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENOS
1975     1986      1996     19"
GDP (billions USS)                             ..      3.5       5.7      6.0     Econ* radow'
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 7.6      8.7      16.4    16.7
Exports of goods and services/GDP             8.2     13.7      12.0    12.1               Openneas ofeconomy
Gross domestic savings/GOP                    5 5      7.5       7.4      6.3
Gross national savings/GDP                    5.9      7.5      12.4     12.8
Cufrent account balance/GDP                    ..    -2.5       -7.9     4.6
Interest payments/GDP                          ..      0.5       0.6              Savings                     Investment
Total debtlGDP                                 ..    35.0       63.0
Total debt service/exports                    6.6     38.0      20.0
Present value of debt/GDP                      ,.       ..      33.0
Present value of debtlexports                  ..       ..    273.5                            Indebtednesa
197545  1986-96     1996       1996  199746
(average annual growth)                                                               -         Uganda
GOP                                   ..      6.7     11.5       9.8      5.4                o4noe  m
GNP per capita                                3.4      8.6       7.2      2.7               Low-Income gn up
Exports ogoodsandservices             ..      8.2     27.4      19.2      4.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1996     1996
(% of GOP)                                                                        Growtth rats of output and Invetent (I%
Agriculture                                  72.2   .52.7       49.7    45.6      '40/
Industry                                      8.2      9.9      14.0     16.0     30
Manufacturing                               6.4      5.8       6.5       7.2     20
Services                                     196      37.4      36.2     38.4        __                       __
Private consumption                            ..    78.0       83.0     83.9    .10       si2    94   vi   as    v
General govemment consumption                  ..    14.5        9.6      9.8              -     GOt   -_GOP
Importsofgoodsandservices                    10.3     15.0      21.0     22.4
1975-4   1984-86      1996     1996
(average annual growth)                                                           Growth rats of exports and importB (%
Agricutture                                            4.1       5.9      4.2      s3
Industry                                              10.5      20.3     19.2
Manufacturing                                 .     11.1       16.9     18.1      .-
Services                                        .      7.6      13.1      9.6     20 -
Private consumption                            ..      6.1      13.4      7.7      o 
General govemment consumption                  .       5.6       9.2      8.6        .    T      2          94   As 
Gross domestic investment                       -      7.9      39.7     14.7 '    20
Imports of goods and services                          5.4      43.6      9.6             -     Exporbts   0tmpot
Gross national product                         .       6.8      11.9     10.3
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators ^.   ..-ty in bold) compared with its income-group average. It data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
Uganda



ANXNEX 3
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                                                             Pap  2 of 9
18S76    1388      1996      1338
Domesc pries                                                                        InflatIon (%
(% change)                                                                         so
Consumer prices                                       102.5       6.5       8.6       .
Implicit GOP deflator                           ..   120.3        8.3       4.9
20.
Govenment flnanceo
(% ofGOP)                                                                                  et02    3I
Currentrevenue                                   ,      9.1      10.0      10.3            99    9    9o   94    9       9e
Current budet balance                                   0.3       0.6       1.2             -     GDP dot.  -O-CPt
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..    -4.3       -7.6      -6.0   I
TRADE
1976     1986      1995     1996
(mi7lhns USS)                                                                       Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                             ,,    383         595      590      1.5
Coffee                                         ,      353       457      404
Cotton                                         .        ..        3        13
Manufactures                                                      3       13      10.0
Total imports (cii)                             ..    404       1,086    1,218
Food                                          ..        .          .     170       sc5 1II   I
Fuel and energy                               ..       76        64       90                              A 
Capital goods                                  .. -     *-               395       xoI__________ I_        _      _   _
Export price index (1987-100)                   ..     103         95       76            0o  91  92  93  94  98  9e
Import price index (1987.100)                   ..      80        136      151                   5Expons   mimpons
Terms of trade (1987.100)                       ..     129         70       50
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1986      1996     1996
(mlwlons USS)                                                                       Current account balance to GOP rato (%)
Exports of goods and services                 248      408        667      726                 -
imports of goodssand servces                  313      484      1,383    1,601          90  91  92  93   9
Resource balance                              -85       -76      -716     -875
Net income                                     -4      -53        -58      46                     lii .   i
Net current transfers                          13       40        330      407                    li_ 
Current account balance,                                                                            Il
before official capital transfers            -56      -89      -444      -514
Financing items (net)                          56      128        590      587_
Changes in net reserves                         0       -39      -146      -73     -IS
Memo:  '
Reserves including gold (mill. USS)            31       85        388      502
Conversion rate (Ioca/LUSS)                     ..      5.1     932.5  1,012.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1986      1996      1996
(rmllions US$)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1995 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          209    1,232      3,564
IBRD                                          4       37          0        0                    F  G
IDA                                          40      285      1,792    1,849                   84 93
Total debt service                             17      155        137        * |           E
ISRD                                          1        3         12        0            68
IDA                                           0        4         21       21
B
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                 1792
Official grants                              30       47        399       ..            D                       1792
Ofricial creditors                           11      140        171                    410
Private creditors                            -3        6        -10
Foreign direct investment                     2       -4        121       ..                  C
Porlfotio equity                              0        0          0        *.                417
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0       45         94       42      A . IBRO                    E -Bibtia i
Disbursements                                 3       92        160      124      B-IOA     0 -Othermunthiateia  F-Prinate
Principal repayments                          1        2         20        8      C - IMF                     G - Short-turn,
Neotiows                                      2       90        140      116   i
Interest payments                             1        4         13       13
Net transfers                                 2       86        126      103
Development Economics                                                                                                at2W97



ANN 3
Pap 3 of 9
4
Status of Bank Group Operations in Uganda
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
aexpected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual                Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                   '  disbursemnts a/        Supervision Rating b/
Project .10    Credit       Year               Borrower                      Purpose
No.                                                                            IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed   orig    Frm Rev'd    Dev ObI           Imp Prog
Nurnbe of Closed Loans/credits: 60
Active Loans
UG-PE-2969     IDA 21240    1990  GOVERNMENT                          WATER SUPPLY II               0.00       60.00             0.00          9.27       5.04      -2.46       S             S
UG-PE-292S     IDA 22680    1991  GOVERNMENT                          POWER III                     0.00      125.00             0.00         62.97      66.74       0.00       U             U
UG-PE-29s1     IDA 22060    1991  GOVERNMENT                          URBAN I                       0.00       28.70             0.00          5.30       4.45       0.00       S             s
UG-PE-29i0     IDA 21760    1991  GOVT.                               LIVESTOCK                     0.00       21.00             0.00          8.23      -3.49       0.00       U             u
UG-PE-2981     IDA 23620    1992  GOVERNMENT                          NORTHEPN RECONSTRUCT          0.00       71.20             0.00          7.08      -3.44       0.00       HS            s
UG-PE-2968     IDA 23150    1992  GOVERNMENT                          ENTERPRISE                    0.00       65.60           23.75          14.77      27.51        .59       S             s
DEVELOPMENT
UG-PE-2953     IDA 24930    1993  GOVERNMENT                          PRIMARY EDUC. & TEAC          0.00       52.60             0.00         20.71      12.15       0.00       U              U
UG-PE-2938     IDA 24460    1993  GOVERNMENT                   .      AGRIC. RES L TRG.             0.00       25.04             0.00          7.08      -2.07       0.00       s             S
UG-PE-2991     IDA 24240    1993  MINIS. AGRIC ANINMAL               AGRIC. EXTENSION PRO           0.00       15.79            0.00           2.46       1.61       0.00       S             U
UG-PE-2975    IDA 24180    1993  GOVERNMENT                           ECON & FINANCIAL              0.00       29.00             0.00          2.39      -7.07       0.00       S              S
MANAGEMENT
UG-PE-2977     IDA 26090    1994  GOU                                 COTTON SECTOR DEVELO          0.00       14.00             0.00          8.02       4.28       0.00       S              s
UG-FE-2963     IDA 26030    1994  GOVERNMENT                          SEXUAL.TRANS.IN               0.00       50.00             0.00         35.97      11.99       0.00       S             s
UG-PE-2923    IDA 25870    1994  GOVT.                                TRANSP. REHAB.                0.00       75.00             0.00         55.73      35.06       0.00       S             U
UG-PE-2957     IDA 25830    1994  GOVERNMENT                          SMALL TOWNS WATER             0.00       42.30             0.00         28.94      13.97       0.00       s             S
UG-PE-2976     IDA 27360    1995  GOVERNMENT                          INST. CAPACITY BLDG           0.00       36.40             0.00         23.03       4.21       0.00       S             s
UG-PE-2971     IDA 26790   .1995  GOVERNMENT                          DISTRICT HEALTH               0.00       45.00             0.00         34.27       2.99       0.00       S             S
UG-PE-35634   IDA 27980    1996  GOU                                  PRIV. SECTOR COMPETI          0.00       12.30             0.00          9-41       1.71       0.00       S             S
UG-PE-2978    IDA 27770    1996  GOVERNMENT                           ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMT          0.00       11.80             0.00          8.28       3.J2       0.00       S             S
UG-PE-46836   IDA 29090    1997  GOVT. OF UGANDA                      LAKE VICTORIA ENV.            0.00       12.10            0.00          11.09        .63       0.00       Hs            s
UG-PE-2987     TDA N0230    1997  GOVT. OF UGANDA                     SAC III                       0.00      125.00            0.00          79.49      -1.75       0.00
UG-PE-49543   IDA 29870    1998  REPUBLIC OF UGANDA                   ROAD SECT/INST.SUPP           0-00       30.00            0.00          29.46       0.00       0.00       S             S
Total                                                                                               0.00      947.83           23.75         471.95    178.34       -1.87
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IORD and IDA):                  453.34             1,568.34            2,021.68
of which has been repaid:                    0.00               108.73              108.73
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  924.08             1,384.47            2,308,55
Amount sold                                         0.00               25.82               25,82
of which repaid               :                 0.00                25.82               25.82
Total Undisbursed                                471.95                  .87              472.82
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actua.  disbursements to( date as projected at appraisal,
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance IAMPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS   highly Satisfactory, S - .atisfactory, IJ  kffsatisfactoXy, NU
highly unsietisfactory): see proposed ImpLovements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
DisbaUrsement data Is updated at the end of the first tweek of the month.
I : -01,1i I-) thIII ( ki)wrcltl:)lls l1il,olnialiol S%Iciln (O IS)                                                                                                                    Page I



ANNEX 3
PF 4of 9
Uganda
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Nov-97
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval            Company         Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1983                  Uganda Sugar           7.47    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.47    0.00    0.00    0.00
1984/92               DFCU                   0.00     .98    0.00    0.00    0.00    .98    0.00    0.00
1992                  AEF Clovergem           .73    0.00    0.00    0.00     .73    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  AEFNileRoses            .18    0.00    0.00    0.00     .18    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  AEF Rwenzori            .69      .19    0.00    0.00    .69    .19    0.00    0.00
1993                  Jubilee                 0.00     .10    0.00    0.00    0.00    .10    0.00    0.00
1994                  AEF Polypack            .70    0.00    0.00    0.00     .70    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                  AEF Skyblue             .51    0.00    0.00    0.00     .51    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994                  Celtel                  3.01     .64    .80    0.00    3.01    .64    .80    0.00
1995                  AEF Rainbow              .79    0.00    0.00    0.00    .79    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/96               Uganda Leasing          2.00    .33    0.00    0.00     .70    .33    0.00    0.00
1996                  AEF Agro Mgmt            .60    .40    0.00    0.00     .45    .40    0.00    0.00
1996                  EAGW                   6.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Kasese Cobalt          16.00    3.60    0.00    0.00    2.14    2.36    0.00    0.0')
1997                  AEF Afsitours           .37    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.0'
1997                  AEF Conrad Plaza        1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    .50    0.00    0.00    o no
1997                  AEF Kiwa Indust         .25    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0 0()
1997                  AEF Metro Hotel         .42    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    o 00o
Total Portfolio:                  41.72    6.24    :80    0.00   17.87    5.00    .80   li o
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Eguity  Quasi  Partic
1998                  AEF KAM FLOWERS          .50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  KASESE COBALT          0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00
Total Pending Commitment:           n50    0.00    0.00    5.00
Geneated by the Operations Infonmation System (OIS) on 0 1/05/98



ANNEX3
Page 5 of 9
Uganda Social Indicators
Latest single year            Same reglon/lncome group
Sub-
Saharan           Low.
1970-75     1980485      1990-95           Atrica        income
POPULATION
Total populadon. mid-year (millions)            11.2         14.1        19.2            583.4         3,179.9
Growth rate (% annual average)                 2.7          2.0         3.1              2.8             1.6
Urban population (% of population)               8.3          9.9        12.5             31.1            28.6
Total fertility rate (births per woman)          7.1          7.3         6.7              5.7             3.2
POVERTY
(% of popuIat'on)
National headcount index                          ..           ..        55.0
Urban headcount index                           ..           ..
Rural headcount index                           ..           ..
INCOME
GNP per capita (USS)                              ..         1S0          240              490             430
Consumer price index (1990=100)                   ..           ..
Food price index (1990=100)                        ..          ..         213
INCOMEICONSUMPTION DISTRIBUTION
(% of income or consumpb'on)
Lowest quintle                                   6.0           ..          6.8
Highest quintile                                47.0           ..         48.1
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure
(% of GOP)
Health                                          ..           ..          1.8
Education                                      2.3          2.2
Social security and welfare                      .            ..
Net primary school enrollment rate
(% of age group)
Total                                           ..          40
Male                                          ..          43
Female                                        ..          35
Access to safe water
(% of populaton)
Total                                         22.0         16.0         41.8             47.0           53.0
Urban                                       88.0         45.0
Rural                                       17.0         12.0
Immunization rate
(% under 12 monfts)
Measles                                                      17          79               60              77
OPT                                                          14          79               58              80
Child malnutition (% under 5 years)               ..           ..            .               ..             42
Life expectancy at birth
(years)
Total                                           51          48           42               52              63
Male                                          50          48           44               51              62
Female                                        52          49           44               54              64
Mortality
Infant (per thousand live births)              104          116          98               92              69
Under 5 (per thousand live births)              ..           ..         160              157             104
Adult (15-S9)
Male (per 1,000 population)                    ..          ..         622              433             244
Fema.e (per 1,000 population)                  ..          ..         558              359             211
Maternal (per 100,000 live births)              ..         300          506
World Develooment Indicators CD-ROM. WI-. ' J  - or'ar, 1997



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 9
Uganda - Key Economic Indicators
Actual                Estimate           Projected
Indicator                 1991     1992     1993    1994      1995     1996     1997      1998
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product                     100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculture'                              49.4    48.2    48.3    46.2    45.3          41.4     40.1      38.8
Industry'                                  11.6     12.5    12.3     12.8     13.0      14.5     15.7      16.5
Services'                                 32.5    33.6    33.1       33.5     33.4      35.1     35.2      35.7
Total Consumption                           99.3    99.6    98.9    96.0        92.7      93.8     94.0     93.4
Gross domestic fixed                        15.2    15.9    15.2    14.6        15.3      17.2     18.7     19.8
investment
Government investment                      7.4      7.4      6.7      5.4      5.3       6.2      5.2       4.7
Private investment                         7.8      8.5      8.5      9.1    10.0       11.0     13.5      15.1
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports(GNFS)b                               7.5      8.8      7.1      8.7     11.8      11.9     12.6      11.1
Imports (GNFS)                              21.9    24.3    21.2       19.3    20.6       22.0     25.3     24.3
Grossdoinesticsavings                        0.7      0.4      1.1      4.0      7.3       6.2      6.0      6.6
Gross national savings'                      1.4      2.1      3.6    10.1      12.0      12.3     10.6     10.8
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                     3323    2858    3221       3999    5748       6120     6552      7403
(USS million at current
prices)
Gross national product per                 180.0   180.0   190.0   190.0   240.0    290.0    330.0    350.0
capita (USS, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1991
prices)
Gross domestic product at                5.6%     3.4%     8.3%     6.4%    11.5%      9.5%      5.0%     7.5%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                    4.7%     2.6%     7.9%     8.3%    17.1%      7.5%      3.9%     6.6%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1991 prices)
Grossdomesticproductat                   2.6%     0.5%     4.4%     3.1%    .8.1%      5.9%      2.1%     4,6%
market prices
Total consumption                         1.4%    -0.3%    3.3%     3.4%     -).6%     4.0%      5.9%     4.5%/o
Private consumption                       1.6%    -0.6%    3.3%     3.3%     9.9%      3.8%      0.5%Ho    5. 2
(continued)



ANNEX3
Page 7 of 9
Uganda - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                Estimate           Projected
Indicator                1991     1992    1993    1994    1995        1996      1997      1998
Balance of Payments
(USSm)
Exports (GNFS)b                           198.8   195.1   237.8   333.1   667.1    725.6    823.0    818.1
MerchandiseFOB                          175.4   172.1   157.1   253.9   595.3    590.3    669.0    642.8
Imports (GNFS)b                          670.5   581.6   698.7   840.6  1383.2   1600.9   1654.4   1799.7
Merchandise FOB                        545.0   450.6   530.5   671.6  1085.5   1218.3   1249.4   1367.0
Resource balance                         471.7  -386.6   460.8  -507.5  -716.1   -875.3   -831.4   -981.6
Net current transfers                      80.5    135.9   129.1   303.7   329.9    421.1    322.1    329.5
(including official current
trasfers)
Current account balance                  -187.5  -131.6  -111.6   -36.4  -141.6   -223.4   -218.5   -338.5
(after official capital grants)
Netprivateforeigndirect                     1.0      2.0      4.0     4.6       1.8    110.4    160.0    193.0
investrent
Long-term loans (net)                     121.9    38.0   137.6   335.6   597.5    496.0    494.2    493.4
Official                                 140.4    75.1    153.3   180.2   293.1    222.6    210.3   .219.4
Private                                 -18.5   -37.1    -15.7   155.4   304.4    273.4    283.9    274.0
Other capital (net, including             27.6      93.4    -1.2  -214.1  -311.4   -310.1   -298.2   -276.8
errors and omissions)
Change in reservesd                        37.0    -1.8   -28.7   -89.7  -146.4    -72.9   -137.5    -71.1
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of                   -14.2%   -13.5%   -14.3%   -12.7%   -12.5%    -14.3%    -12.7%   -13.3%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1991 prices)
Merchandise exports                     -15.7%    13.5%    -5.6%    26.0%    14.5%    43.1%    37.1%      0.7%
(FOB)
Primary
Manufactures                                         ..       ..       ..       ..       ..        ..
Merchandise imports                     -10.2%   -19.9%    15.4%    24.5%    52.6%     10.1%     6.9%     9.0%
(CIF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)"
Current revenues                            7.5      6.8      7.3     8.3      9.8      10.1      10.7     10.4
Current expenditures                        7.1     11.8      8.4      8.9      9.2      8.9       9.6      9.3
(Continued)



ANNEX 3
Par 8of 9
Uganda - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual                Estimate          Projected
Indicator                1991    1992    1993    1994    1995        1996     1997     1998
Current account surplus (+)                0.3    -5.0    -1.1    -0.6       0.6       1.2      1.0      1.0
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                        7.6     9.4    10.2       9.7     8.1       7.1      6.9      6.3
Foreign financing                          7.4    12.3    13.3    12.1        9.4      7.5      7.2      7.1
Monetary Indicators
M2WGDP (at current market                  7.6      8.6     8.7    10.2    10.7       11.0     11.7      11.8
prices)
Growth of M2 (%)                          46.7    71.0    42.6    32.8    27.4        19.7     18.3      15.2
Privatesectorcreditgrowth/                91.0    36.4   194.0  -540.2   -92.4        71.6     98.8    251.5
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( 1991 =100)
Merchandise export price                  48.9    42.2    40.9    52.4   107.4        74.4     61.5     58.7
index
Merchandise import price                 102.3   105.7   107.8   109.6   116.1    118.4    113.6    114.0
index
Merchandise terms of trade                47.8    40.0    37.9    47.8    92.5        62.8     54.2     51.5
index
Real exchange rate                        34.5    28.3    28.5    34.9    37.3        37.1
(USS/LCuT
Real interest rates
Consumer price index                    24.6%    42.1%    28.4%    6.5%     6.1%     7.5%     7.7%      5.6%
(% growth rate)
GDPdeflator                             26.1%    45.1%    30.1%    6.9%     9.2%     5.5%     6.6%      6.3%
(% growth rate)
a. If GDP components are estimated at factor cost, a footnoote indicating this fact should be added.
b. "GNFS' denotes 'goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Should indicate the level of the government to which the data refer.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.



ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 9
Uganda - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual                 Estirnate         Projected
Indicator                1991   1992      1993     1994     1995     1996     1997     1998
Total debt outstanding and           2592.0   2648.3   2637.0   2994.4   3387.6   3447.8   3434.4   3640.7
disbursed (TDO) (USSm)'
Netdisbursements(USSmr                 137.0     29.0    125.0    119.6   297.3    159.8    211.2    184.7
Totaldebtservice(TDS)                  166.8   249.1    175.2    179.3    172.3    167.2    168.3    195.6
(TJSSm)'
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                            1283.0   1333.1   1090.1    870.6    496.2    461.5    398.7    421.9
TDO/GDP                               78.0     92.6      81.9     74.9     58.9     56.3     52.4     49.2
TDS/XGS                               82.6    125.4     72.4      52.1     25.2     22.4     19.5     22.7
Concessional/lDO                       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                      4.3      3.1      5.9      4.3       8.8'    0.0       0.0      0 0
Prefefred creditorDS/public           62.1     58.0     62.9     43.9      59.2     55.1     62.0      57 5
DS
IBRD DS/XGS                            3.6      3.9      4.3       2.2      2.2      0.0      0.0      00
Share of IBRD portfolio
IFC (USSm)
Loans
Equity and quasi-equity 1c
MIGA
MiGA guarantees (USSm)
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, lprivate nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b. "XGS' denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF UGANDA-ESAC
The Returns to Education in Uganda
1.    Economic analysis based upon the Integrated Household Survey, 1992 (a
nationwide household survey which utilizes a stratified random sample), and focusing on
how much different levels of education increase individuals' income-earning ability --
private and social rates of returns to education, were calculated, indicating that: (a) the
overall rate of return to an additional year of education in Uganda is above 8 percent for
both males and females in urban and rural areas; (b) private rates of return are higher for
females than for males, with the former enjoying between 2 to 3 percentage point advantage
over males; and (c) social rates of return are higher for primary education than for
secondary and tertiary education (see Table 1).
Table 1: Rate of Return to Education By Level of Education, Uganda, %
Rate of Return          Primary             Secondary              Tertiary
Private                      18.3                  9.2                  13.1
Social                       15.7                  8.3                  11.3
Source: Based on Integrated Household Survey, Uganda, 1992
Notes
1. Years of foregone earnings: primary, 2; secondary, 7 and tertiary, 4.
2. Annual private costs in U Sh, were: 18,989 (primary); 114,726 (secondary); and 129,756 (tertiary).
3. Annual social costs in U Sh, included the annual private cost plus: 11,704 (primary); 37,330 (secondary);
and 373,525 (tertiary).
4. Social rates of return were calculated by the full discounting method of the age-earning profiles.
2.    Analysis from the same household survey also shows that education has a positive
effect on agricultural productivity. This is important because in Uganda education
contributes to productivity in agriculture and rural self-employment. Primary schooling has
a significantly higher rate of return than secondary schooling. For farmers with four years
of primary schooling, crop output is between 7% and 10% higher than if they had no
schooling. If household farm workers have seven years of primary schooling (equivalent to
one primary school graduation), output is predicted to be 13 % higher than if they had no
schooling. There appears to be a threshold level of minimum education around primary
school completion.
3.    Finally, the following cost-benefit analysis compares the costs and gains of the
expansion from the steady-state (Non-UPE) to UPE. The analysis estimates the welfare
gain arising from externalities on women health (reductions in fertility, child and
maternal mortality rates) resulting from additional education.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
Table 2: Welfare Gain arising from Reductions in Maternal, Child and
Fertility Rates by Educating 1,000 Women in Uganda.
Cost of one additional year of primary
schooling for 1,000 women                                               $ 25,000
Benefits of an additional year of schooling:
Infant mortality (per 1,000 birth)          185
Reduction in infant/child mortality        7.5%
= per 1,000 women (a)                       100
Alternative cost per child death           $750
Value of averted deaths                                          $ 75,000
Fertility rate                              7.2
Reduction in birth averted                 7.5%
= per 1,000 women                          540 births
Altemative cost per birth averted          $300
Value of births averted                                          $162,000
Maternal mortality (per 100,000 birth)       550
Maternal death averted                         3
Alternative cost per averted matemal death  $1,500
Value of averted maternal deaths                                 $ 4,500
Total Discounted Social Benefits (NPV; 10 yrs., 10%) (b)                S 94,200
Notes:
(a) 185/1000=0.185*0.075=0.0139 infant death averted per live birth*7.2*1000 women=100
(b) Assuming that the reduction in child and maternal death and in fertility materializes only 10
years after the girls receive their extra year of schooling, and assuming 15 years total discounted
social benefits equals $58,500
Based on Summer, L.H., 1992, Investing in All the People. The Pakistan Development Review
31:4 Part I (Winter) pp.367-404.
4.     Accordingly Table 2 clearly reveals the positive benefits of investing in girls'
education. The benefit-cost ratio is about 1:4 (1:2 assuming that the benefits are
materialized 15 years after the girls' additional year of schooling). In Uganda, providing
1,000 girls with an extra year of primary schooling would cost about US$25,000 to the
Government, and even after discounting to take into account the time lag between the
moment when girls are educated and when they grow up and have children, the social
benefits of educating girls (ahout US$94,000) are enough to cover the cost, even without
taking any account of the market return. We have also not included the add-on benefits
as the daughters of better edLuCated mothers are likely to have healthier and better
educated children.



ANNEIX 5
Note 1:
Page I of 4
UGANDA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
PROJECTIONS FOR PUBLIC FUNDING OF THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Underlying Assumptions
Enrollment       In August 1997 Government carried out a headcount of teachers and students in all
primary schools (including government-aided schools, and profit and non-profit private
schools). The headcount revealed a substantial increase in both the number of teachers
and students; there were around 99,000 teachers at the time, and 5.3 million students.
Enrollment projections for the coming years are difficult to make as the pre-UPE drop-
out and repetition rates are likely to change under the new policy. The projections here
are based on the population census (1991) and on the assumption of a declining drop-
out rate between each grade 9% in 1998/99, 8% in 1999/00 etc., stabilizing at 5% by
2002/03.
Teachers         Teachers salaries is the single most important budgetary item for primary education.
Hence the number of teachers in the system is a key variable. The headcount revealed
that there were 3,634 'ghosts' on the payroll, that is, teachers who no longer were in
the service but continued to be paid. By the beginning of this school year (1998), the
ghosts were deleted from the teacher payroll. Initially, there was an overshoot of hiring
new teachers with respect to the available budget. Many were retired or untrained
teachers. All teachers will be paid for January-December 1997, but the total number of
teachers will be brought down to a more sustainable level in the beginning of 1998.
The staff establishment is expected to be 92,000 teachers for 1998/99. This estimate is
based on class sizes across the country as revealed by the headcount, and providing a
teacher for 110 students in P1 and P2 and for 55 students in P3-P7. The total number
of teachers is expected to increase to about 111,000 in 2002/03.
Salary Arrears    Due to the complexity of the centrally managed payroll system, accumulation of some
salary arrears has been a regular phenomenon. However, the UPE policy introduced in
the beginning of 1997 created an additional problem of teachers' salary arrears as ther.
was a sudden increase in hiring new teachers whose entry into the payroll was slow It
is expected that U Slh 4.5 billion of arrears will be cleared by June 1998, and the
remainder, U Sh 17.6 billion in 1998/99. In addition, the wage bill for 1997/98 was
adjusted upwards to clear delayed salary payments within the fiscal year. A major
effort is undenvay to simplify and improve payroll management.
Double shifting   In order to ensure sustainability of the UPE policy, double shifting is expected to be
piloted in 1998/99 and adopted in a larger scale thereafter. In the first instance, it %%ill
include PI and P2 and be extended to the 'bulge cohort' who enrolled in Januarv 1 99 7
Possibilities to extend double shifting system-wide will also be considered.
Participation will be voluntary and teachers will be compensated for their extra effort



ANNEX 5
Note 1:
Page 2 of 4
Instructional    This covers the cost of replacing textbooks initially purchased with donor funds.
materials        Between donor and Government spending on textbooks, the Government should achieve
its target ratio.
Conditional      The capitation fee which is intended to cover the general running costs of primary
grants           schools was (substantially) increased to U Sh 5,500 per student for Pl-P4 and U Sh
8,100 per student for P5-P7. These amounts are expected to be maintained in real
terms throughout the period. These funds will be transfered to the districts as
conditional grants. The districts are required to remit them directly to the school
accounts. In 1996/97 and 1997/98 unconditional grants also included capitation fees.
Development      Includes the best expenditure estimates for the on-going donor projects and plans for
budget for       future donor funding, based on calculations of the Education Sector Investment
primary          Program. IEC stands for Information, Education and Commnunication program.
education
Secondary        Based on the assumption that the current expenditure levels are maintained in real
Education        terms. A 10% real increase is projected for 2001/02 and 2002/03.
Tertiary         Includes Makerere and Mbarara Universities, Teacher Service Commission, and
Education        Institute for Teacher Education Kyambogo. Based on the assumption that the level of
expenditure will be maintained in real terms.
Other            This includes all other items, such as the Ministry of Education, Primary Teacher
Training College, and commercial colleges. A nominal increase of about 13% yearly is
envisaged.
Current and      Based on the macroeconomic program under the current ESAF.
Total
Expenditure



ANNEX 5
Note 1:
Uganda UPE                                                                  Page 3 of 4
SECONDARY EDUCATION
Secondary Wage Bill                 14,500      22,800                              26,400       27,720      29,106      30,561      35,145       40,417
Secondary Capitation Grant           2,800       2,900                               4,300       4,515        4,741       4,978       5,724        6,583
Technical Schools Recurrent          3,400       3,000                                2,400       2,500       2,700       2,800       2,900        3,100
Total Secondary Recurrent.          20,700      28,700                              33,100       34,735      36,647      38,339      43,770       50,100
Development (Donor projects)         5,700       4,000                               2,400       5,500        8,800      12,600      22,200       32,900
o/w GOU Contribution to Projects      570         400                                  240         550         880        1,260       2,220        3,290
Total Secondary                     26,400      32,700                               35,500      40,235      4                       65,970       43,00-0
TERTIARY EDUCATION
Recurrent                           29.300      33,700                               33,400      35,070      36,824      38,665      40,598       42,628
Development                         18,600      10,900                                9,100       5,500       6,600       7,600       8,900        9,800
o/w GOU Contribution to Projects     1.900       1,100                                 910         550         660          760         890         980
Total Tertlary                      47,900      44,600                               42,500      40,570      43,424      46,265      49,498       52,428
OTHER
Recurrent                           18,000      19,600                               32,300      36,800      41,700      47,300      49,665       52,148
Development                          4,300       4,400                                4,600       4,900       5,100       5,400       5,600        5,900
o/w GOU Contribution to Projects      400         400                                  500         500         500          500         600         600
Total Other                         22,300      24,000                               36,900      41,700      46,800      52,700       65,265      58,048
Total Education Recurrent          121,047     177,710                              226,183     261,469     271,772     303,434     336,457      369,731
Total Educaton Developmen t         68,900      64,400     :              . *6,4P0              106,700      93,0        80,800      82,700D0,000
Total Education                    189,947     232,110                              282,583     368,169     36S,072     392,234     419,167      464,731
Current expenditure (excl.statutory and    460,000  582,400                         598,200     697,700     793,100
Total Current expenditure          553,800     667,800                              739,400     832,800     970,800
Total Expenditure                  992,000    1,146,400                           1,239,200    1,397,100    1,623,800
PnimaryofRecurrent(excd.statutory)%   11.5        16.4                                21.3         22.2        19.8
Primary of Total Recurrent             9.6        14.3                                17.2         18.6        16.1
Secondary of Recurrent %               3.7         4.3                                 4.5         4.2          3.8
Tertiary of Total Recurrent %          5.3         5.0                                 4.5         4.2          3.8
Education of Total Recurrent %        21.9        26.6                                30.6        31.4         28.0
Education of Total Expenditure %      19.1        20.2                                 22.8        26.4        22.5



ANNEX S
Note 1:
Uganda UPE                                                                 Page 4 of 4
Projections for Public Funding of the Education Sector
U Sh million in Current Pnces
1995196     1996/97     1997198     1997198      1997/98     1998199     1999100      2000101     2001102     2002103
July-Dec    Jan-June      Total
PRIMARY EDUCATION
Recurrent
ActuaVProjected Enrollment         2,640,000   2,740,000    5,300,000    5,300,000             4,955,000    5,119,000    5,383,000    5,666,000    5,928,000
o/w Pl - P4                                               4,300,000                            3,822,000    3,790,000    3,893,000    3,203,000    3,466,000
olw P5 - P7                                               1,000,000                            1,133,000    1,329,000    1,490,000    2,463,000    2,462,000
Teachers on Payroll                                          54,962      82,000                   82,000      86,000       90,500      95,500      100,500
Headmasters on payroll                                        10,000      10,000                   10,000      10,000      10,500       10,500      10,500
Ghosts on Payroll                                             3,634
Non-Payroll I eachers                                        30,404
Total Number of Teachers            74,000       79,000       99,000      92,000                   92,000      96,000     101,000      106,000     111,000
Average Monthly Salary (U Sh)       55,476                   75,589      85,114                   89,370      93,838      101,345     109,453      118,209
Average Annual Salary (U Sh)       665,712                  907,068    1,021,368     962,123    1,072,436    1,126,058    1,216,143    1,313,434    1,418,509
Annual Nominal Pay Increase                                                                          5%           5%          5%           5%          5%
Payment of Salary Arrears                                     4,500                   4,500       17,600
Double Shift Pay Incentive                                                                         1,200       5,500        6,100       6,800        7,200
Payroll Salary Payments             43,047       67,131      44,900      46,983       91,883      98,664     108,102      122,830     139,224      157,455
Total Wage Bill for Teachers        43,047       67,131                               96,383     117,464     113,602      128,930     146,024      164,655
Instructional Materials                                                                            7,200      11,500       15,000      15,000       15,000
Conditional grant (capitation fees)              13,979                               22,000      30,200      31,600       35,200      41,400       45,200
Block grants (estimated capitation fee)  10,000  14,600                                9,000
Total Primary Recurrent             53,047       95,710                              127,383     154,864     156,702      179,130     202,424      224,855
Development (donor projects)
School Construction                                                                  19,300      44,300       27,000      27,600      18,800       19,300
Disadvantaged                                                                         9,300       4,100        8,500       8,900       7,500        6,800
Textbooks                                                                               -        12,300       12,700      12,700       11,300      11,600
Curriculum Development                                                                  100       8,200        8,400       8,500       7,500        7,700
Teacher Development                                                                  11,600      19,300       13,500       4,600         -            -
IEC Expansion                                                                           -         2,600        2,700         900         900        1,000
Total Primary Development           40,300       35,100                              40,300       90,800      72,800       63,200      46,000      46,400
olw Government contribution to projects                                               4,030       9,080        7,280       6,320       4,600        4,640
Total Primary (GOUWdonors)          93,347      130,810                              167,683     245,664     229,502      242,330     248,424     271,255



ANNEX 5
Note 2:
Page I of 5
UGANDA
EDUCATION SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
FINANCING OF PRIMARY EDUCATION AND ACCOUNTABILITY IN UGANDA
Results from the 1996 School Survey by the World Bank
1.    Allocation for public expenditure on education increased in real terms since 1991.
The World Bank in collaboration with the Government carried out a school survey in 1996
to assess the extent to which these increases were reflected in actual spending at the
school level. Although the public accounting system should be able to provide timely
information about actual spending on various budget items and programs, this is not often
the case in low income countries, including Uganda. Therefore, the World Bank
sponsored a survey of 19 districts covering 250 government-aided primary schools to
learn more about the financing of primary education. The findings from the study have
helped to inform policy changes to improve both the financing of primary education and
hopefully the efficiency of public spending. Although the findings of the 1996 survey raise
serious concerns about the practice of the past, recent policy changes should improve the
trends reflected in the findings and improve accountability in the public sector.
2.    The survey revealed, as shown in Figure 1, that parents contributed as much as 75
percent of total expenditure in public schools in 1991. By 1995 the parents' share had
fallen to 55 percent. Since 1993 higher budgetary allocations for education were reflected
in higher actual spending per student (mostly due to higher teachers' salaries) and in a
higher Government's share of total spending.
Figure 1: Average Parental and Govemment Contribution to School
Income Per Student (1991 Prices U Sh)
16
14 -
12  -          i_                *   __        _    *tGov
| 10                      -                        l _ s _ s | Total
8 Parents
Ttotl
6
4
2
0
, Si  V_I2            1993        1994       1995
i _i i_ _ ||____________________
Figure 2 presents dar_ showing the amount of capitation grant (the main non-slary
budget item) actually released by the central goverment, the average proportion retained



ANNEX 5
Note 2:
Page 2 of 5
by the local government authorities and the average proportion received by the schools (in
1991 prices). The first observation is that increased budgetary allocations for education
did not increase non-wage spending in primary education. Second, the schools received,
on average, only a small share of the grant. Third, there was a large spread in the
capitation grant received by schools.
While the central government releases for the capitation grants in real terms was at
its highest in 1991, the schools received on average three percent of this grant. The
figures for 1992-94 are also low, but show a slight improvement. For the three-year
period, the schools received 36 percent of the capitation grant. The bulk of the grant was
retained by the local government authorities. Some local governments reported that the
discrepancy was used to cover expenses of the district education officer (DEO). In some
districts the funds retained by the local authorities were spent for purposes unrelated to
education. Today, new policies have been put in place to assure that the capitation grants
reach the schools by assuring that each school has its own account and that the transfer of
funds are publicly displayed.
Figure 2: Average Capitation Grant per Student in
2,5                     Uanda
2__________________            *W hat the
2_                                                   districts
RECEIVED
m*What the
districts
_ 0,5 _ RETAINED
O'9
0                                                 o3What the
1991       1992       1993       1994       SCHOOLS
Min: 0    Min: 0      Min: 0     Min: 0      received
Max: 0.87   Max: 0.75    Max: 1.11   Max: 1.38
Sourew: School Survey
During the survey period, prior to the introduction of universal primary education
(UPE), parental contributions towards financing primary education consisted of: (i) tuition
fees at the nominal rate of U Sh 2,500 per child in Pl-P4 and U Sh 4,000 per child in P5-
P7, that is, to match the capitation grant; (ii) PTA levies which varied from district to
district and from school to school; and (iii) contributions to school building funds. The
tuition collected by schools was not remitted to the central government. Rather, it was
left to each district to determine how the funds raised should be utilized. In some districts
the schools were allowed to retain a certain percentage or a fixed amount of the tuition fee
collected per student, with the balance transferred to the DEO. In other districts the entire
tuition collected was remitted to the DEO. Subsequent disbursements to schools, either



ANNEX 5
Note 2:
Page 3 of S
in cash or in-kind, may or may not have taken place. Hence local government authorities
not only retained the bulk of the capitation grant, but also kept an even larger portion of
the tuition fees paid by parents (Figure 3). In 1991 schools received on average four
percent of the tuition collected. By 1995 the average figure had risen to 36 percent.
Again, variation between districts is substantial. The introduction of UPE has meant that
districts no longer collect any tuition fees, but instead government contributions go to
school accounts.
Figure 3: Mean Tuition per Student Uganda
1,4
1,2
0  '
0                                                                    inTuition
0,8 -                                                               Collected
Mean
0,6 -
80,4 - _                                                              Tuition
Retained
0,2 -                                                               by
Schools
Mean
1991        1992        1993        1994        1995
Min: 0      Min: 0      Min: 0      Min: 0      Min: 0
Max: 0.28    Max: 0.32    Max: 0.35    Max: 0.65  Max: 0.54
Source: School Survey
In spite of anecdotal evidence that teachers salaries (the main item in the
government education budget) also suffered from major inefficiencies in the flow of funds,
it was not possible to establish how much of the annual allocations was actually spent in
primary schools. This was because disaggregated salary data at the central government
level were not available. However, central government spending for teachers' salaries
increased in real terms. This was also reflected at the school level (Table 1). The average
government contribution to teachers' salaries increased from 51 percent in 1991 to 66
percent in 1994 and 61 percent in 1995, an indication that at least part of the increase in
budgetary allocations did filter down through the system. Table I shows, for example,
that teachers derived their salaries from three sources: Government, PTA and others, such
as NGOs. In 1991 and 1992 close to one-half of teachers' pay came from others than
government. From 1993 onwards the government contribution started to rise
significantly, thanks to a presidential directive which called for special treatment of
teachers in the award of annual salary increases.



ANNEX S
Note 2:
Page 4 of 5
Table 1: Contributions to Teachers' Salaries (1991 prices)
U Sh (million)
Year        GOU       %       PTA      %       Other    %       Total     %
1991        213.9     51      125.8    30       79.7    19    419.4    100
1992        214.7     52      134.1    33       61.5    15    410.3    100
1993        381.3     59      196.0    30       72.4    11    649.7    100
1994        748.6     66      300.7    26       86.7      8   1,136.0    100
1995        914.6     61      475.9    32      104.7      7   1,495.3    100
Source: School Survey
The school survey results contrasted the trend reported in the official enrollment
figures. Instead of being almost stagnant, the school records indicated an increase of 60
percent in primary enrollment in the sample schools between 1991 and 1995. The overall
student-teacher ratio increased from 26:1 in 1991 to 37:1 in 1995. The survey results
seem actually more plausible than the official figures, given continuous improvement in the
political and socio-economic environment since 1987.
As discussed elsewhere in this report, the UPE policy brought a large and sudden
increase in primary enrollments in 1997, providing access to education for children who
could not afford the PTA and tuition fees earlier. Given the problems in the flow of public
fiunds in the past, the Government and the Bank have focused on accountability in
preparation of this operation. Although the school survey revealed low efficiency of the
Ugandan public sector in channeling public funds to primary schools prior introduction of
the universal primary education, the following changes have been made or are underway
to rectify the situation:
*  Monthly transfers of public funds for wage and non-wage expenditure to
districts are regularly published in the main newspapers and broadcast by radio;
*  Districts are requested to pay the conditional grant for primary education on
individual school accounts. The central government's, donors' and NGOs'
monitoring effort has increased substantially;
*  School based procurement has replaced the highly inefficient central supply of
construction and other materials,



ANNEX 5
Note 2:
Page 5 of 5
*  Publication of disbursements of donor funds by district and schools in local
newspapers;
*  Measures to  enhance accountability  and  dissemination  of accounting
information were incorporated in the 1997 Local government Act.  The
previous statute had no such provisions.
*  A renewed effort is underway to put in place basic accounting systems for the
public sector, including districts.
These efforts are beginning to show encouraging results. The public sector has
begun to improve its performance in education and address the concerns raised by the
World Bank survey.



