Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GRANT NUMBER TF020167 UG
Development Grant Agreement
(Education Sector Adjustment Operation)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 15, 1998
GRANT NUMBER TF020167 UG 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 15, 1998, between THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA (the Recipient) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Executive Directors of the Association approved on 
April 22, 1997,the recommendation for assistance to be provided to the Recipient under 
the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative in respect of debt owed by the 
Recipient to the Association; 
(B)
as part of such assistance, the Association was authorized to make to the 
Recipient the development grant set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement (the 
Grant); 
(C)
the Association has received a letter (the Letter of Development Policy) 
dated February 12, 1998, from the Recipient describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Recipient's 
education sector (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Recipient's 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof;
(D)
the Recipient has also requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance in support of the Program, and by an agreement of even date herewith 
between the Recipient and the Association (the Development Credit Agreement), the 
Association  is agreeing to provide a development credit to the Recipient in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to fifty-nine million two hundred thousand 
Page  2
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 59,200,000) (the Credit); 
(E)
 the Recipient and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, 
that the proceeds of the Grant be disbursed before disbursements of the proceeds of 
the Credit are made; and 
(F)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Recipient by making the 
Grant in one tranche as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association”, dated January 1, 1985, (as 
amended through December 2, 1997) with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of 
this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6) (7), (8), (9), (10), 
(12), (as 
modified below), (13) and (14), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 (as modified below) and 4.05;
(v)
Sections 5.01, 5.03 (as such sections are modified below), 5.05, 
5.06 and 
5.07;
(vi)
Sections 6.02 (as modified below), 6.03 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii) Sections 9.01, 9.02, 9.03, 9.05, 9.06, (as modified below) 9.07 
and 9.08;
(ix)
Article X;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the terms “Borrower”, “Credit”, “Credit Account” and “Development 
Credit 
Agreement”, wherever they appear in the General 
Conditions, are replaced by 
"the Recipient”, “the Grant”, “the Grant 
Account” and “the Development Grant 
Agreement”, respectively;
(ii)
the terms “development credit agreement” and “development credit”, 
where used 
in Article I of the General Conditions, mean “development 
grant agreement” and 
“development grant”, respectively;
(iii)
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read:
“(12) ‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to 
the 
Development Grant Agreement, in support of which the Grant 
is made.”;
(iv)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be 
made in the currency of the 
deposit account specified in 
Page  3
Section 2.02 of the Development Grant 
Agreement.”;
(v)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Grant from 
the Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Grant 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”;
(vi)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(vii)
In Section 6.02 (a), the phrase “(i) under the Development Credit 
Agreement, 
or” is deleted;
(viii) Section 6.02 (c) (i) is modified to read:
“(c) (i) The Association or the Bank shall have suspended in whole 
or in part 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals under any 
development credit 
agreement or development grant agreement with the 
Association or any loan 
agreement with the Bank because of a 
failure by the Recipient to perform any 
of its obligations under 
such agreement; or”; and
(ix)
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient 
and the Association, the 
Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Grant Agreement, 
the 
performance by the Recipient and the Association of their respective 
obligations under the Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Grant.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“BOU” means the Bank of Uganda, the Borrower’s central bank; 
(b)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of 
this Agreement; and 
(c)
“LDP” means the Letter of Development Policy referred to in paragraph (A) 
of the Preamble to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient a 
development grant, on the conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-five million five hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 55,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Grant Account, and thereafter 
maintain in BOU, a deposit account in dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. All withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account.
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Section, the 
Recipient shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant 
Account and deposited into the Deposit Account in support of the Program. 
(c)
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Grant shall not be used 
Page  4
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Grant shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the 
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the 
Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded 
to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Grant Account for 
cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
Section 2.04. BOU is designated as representative of the Recipient for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program. 
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Grant which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the 
Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement.
Page  5
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the parties to this 
Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Recipient is designated as the representative of the Recipient for 
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
              Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 8147
Kampala, Uganda
Cable address: 
            Telex:
FINSEC  
                   61170
Kampala
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
By /s/ Edith Sempala 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/  James Addams 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa
Page  6
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Grant 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Recipient; 
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank 
shall have financed or agreed to finance under another development grant, a 
development credit or a loan;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Recipient:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
-
Alcoholic beverages
121
-
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
-
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
-
Radioactive and 
associated materials
667
-
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious
stones, unworked
or worked
718
    718.7
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges),
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
    728.43
Tobacco processing
machinery
897
    897.3
Jewelry of gold, 
silver or platinum
group metals (except
watches and watch
cases) and
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including 
set gems)
971
-
Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
Page  7
luxury consumption; 
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to 
which the Recipient is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally 
hazardous by agreement between the Recipient and the Association);  
6.
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or of a beneficiary of the Grant during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Recipient having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation.
