                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                             Report No: 27538




              PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                    UGANDA

                         Primary Education and Teacher
                      Development Project (Credit 2493), and

                       Education Sector Adjustment Credit
                                  (Credit 3049)




                                 January 8,2004




Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit     =  Ugandan Shilling (U Sh)

2001                      US$l   .oo
2002                      US$1.oo                 1720 U Sh
                                                  1710 U Sh

Abbreviations and Acronyms

DflD              Department for International Development (UK)
EFAG              Education Funding Agencies Group
EMIS              Education Management Information System
ESAC              Education Sector Adjustment Credit
ESIP              Education Sector Investment Plan
HIPC              Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
IDA               International Development Association
IMU               Instructional Materials Unit
M&E               Monitoring and evaluation
MOES              Ministry of Education and Sports
NAPE              National Assessment of Progress in Education
OED               Operations Evaluation Department
PETDP             Primary Education and Teacher Development Project
PIU               Project Implementation Unit
PPAR              Project Performance Assessment Report
PRSP              Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PTA               Parent-teacher association
PTC               Primary Teachers' College
SWAP              Sector-wide approach
TDMS              Teacher Development And Management System
UNEB              Uganda National Examinations Board
UPE               Universal primary education
USAID             United States Agency for International Development

Fiscal Year

Government:               July 1-June    30




Director-General, Operations Evaluation                   : Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department                : Mr. Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group             : Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager:                                             : Ms. Martha Ainsworth

                                                               i



   OED Mission: Enhancingdevelopment effectivenessthrough excellence and independencein evaluation.


 About this Report
      The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
 purposes: first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is
 producing the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
 the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
 the Banks lending operations. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are
 innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
 Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
 important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation
 studies.
      A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
 validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
 OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage. html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements, Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
unsatisfactory.
      Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                      ...
                                                                      111



 Contents

 Principal Ratings          ...............................................................................................................  v

Key Staff Responsible              ........................................................................................................  v

 Preface   ..............................................................................................................................   v11
                                                                                                                                             ..

 Summary      ...........................................................................................................................    ix

 1 Background
  .                     ..................................................................................................................    1

         Post-Conflict Recovery............................................................................................                   1
         Primary Education ..................................................................................................                 1
         Project Objectives and Components........................................................................                            3
                    Primary Education and Teacher Development Project................................                                         3
                    Education Sector Adjustment Credit ...........................................................                            3
2 Implementation
  .                           ............................................................................................................    4

         PETDP..................................................................................................................... 4
         ESAC........................................................................................................................         6
3 Contribution to Sector Outcomes
  .                                                           ..............................................................................  7

         Primary Enrollments ............................................................................................... 8
         Level and Efficiency in Use ofResources................................................................                              9
         Quality of Teaching and Learning.........................................................................                           12
        Sector Governance and Management.,..................................................................                                 16
4 Ratings
  .            ........................................................................................................................      18

         Outcome.,...............................................................................................................            18
                    Relevance...................................................................................................             18
                    Efficacy......................................................................................................           18
                    Efficiency...................................................................................................            19
                    Overall Outcome........................................................................................                  19
        Institutional Development Impact .........................................................................                           19
        Sustainability ........................................................................................................             -20
        Bank Performance ................................................................................................. 20
        Borrower Performance.......................................................................................... 22


This report was prepared by Gillian Perkins. Consultant. who assessed the project in February 2003. The
reDort was edited bv William B. Hurlbut            .and    Pilar Barauero provided administrative support.

                                                                  iv


5. Adjustment Lending and Sector-wide Approach                                        ................................................... 22

       Role of the Bank..................................................................................................... 23
       Emerging Issues.....................................................................................................               24
6 Lessons
 .          ........................................................................................................................      26

       Lessonsfor Supporting Expansion ofPrimary Education ....................................                                           27
       Lessonsfor Using Budget Support in a SWAPfor Education ...............................                                             28
References .........................................................................................................................      29

Annex A  .Basic    Data Sheet          ..............................................................................................     31

Annex B  .Comments          from the Borrower                   .......................................................................   35

Tables
Table 1.Average Number of Pupils Per Teacher. Classroom. and Textbook...................13

Figures

                                                                                                                                           9
Figure 2. Budget Allocations to Education. 1995-2003 ....................................................
Figure 1. Estimated Net Primary Enrollment Rates. 1992 and 1999/2000 .........................
                                                                                                                                          10

                                                  V


  Principal Ratings
                                                                            493)
                     ICR*                         PPAR
  0utcome            Satisfactory                 Moderately satisfactory
  Sustainability     Likely                       Likely
  Institutional      Modest                       Substantial
  Development Impact
  Bank Performance   Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
  Borrower           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
  Performance

  Education Sector Adjustment ODeration (Credit 3049)
                     /CR*                         PPAR
  Outcome            Highly satisfactory          Satisfactory
  Sustainability     Highly likely                Likely
  Institutional      Substantial                  Substantial
  Development Impact
  Bank Performance   Highly satisfactory         Satisfactory
  Borrower           Satisfactory                Satisfactory
  Performance

 * The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible
 operational division of the Bank.


 Key Staff Responsible

__Project                      Task Manager/Leader           Division Chief/    Country Director
  .-_______                                                  Sector Director
   Appraisal                        Nat Colletta          Jacob van Lutsenburg   Francis Colaco
                                                                 Maas
   Completion                    Patrick D. Murphy         Dzingai Mutumbuka    James W. Adams



 Education Sector Adjustment Operation (Credit 3049)
 Project                      Task ManagedLeader             Division Chief/    Country Director
                                                             Sector Director
  Appraisal                   Eduardo Velez Bustillo           Ruth Kagia       James W. Adams
   Completion                    Patrick D. Murphy         Dzingai Mutumbuka    James W. Adams


                                               vii


 Preface

        This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on two education
projects in Uganda:

    0   The Primary Education and Teacher Development Project (PETDP; Credit No.
        2493) for which an International Development Agency (IDA) credit in the amount
        of US$52.6 million was approved on May 13, 1993, and which became effective
        on November 10, 1993. The project closed on June 30,2001, one year behind
        schedule, having disbursed US$51.6 million of the IDA credit.
    0   The Education Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC; Credit No. 3049) for which an
        IDA credit in the amount of US$80 million and a grant through the Highly
        Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative in the amount of US$75 million were
        approved on March 24, 1998, and which became effective on June 12, 1998.The
        funds were disbursed in three tranches, the third of which was delayed from its
        scheduled time of May 2000 to August 2000. The operation closed as scheduled
        on December 31,2000.

        These operations were selected for assessment because of Uganda's particular
experience in pioneering new approaches, both for achieving universal primary education
(UPE) and for management of external aid to the sector, and because the approach taken
by the Bank in Uganda has been cited as a potential model for its support to Education
For All. The assessment contributes to background work for an ongoing Operations
Evaluation Department (OED) study of the Bank's assistance to basic education.

       This report, prepared by OED, draws on the knowledge and insights of those
involved in preparing and implementing the projects     -  in the Bank and in Uganda -as
conveyed through written documents and interviews. It is based on the Bank's project
documents and draws on relevant studies carried out by the Bank, the borrower, and other
agencies. It draws on interviews with Bank staff and on discussions in Uganda during the
PPAR mission in February, 2003, with government officials, education sector
professionals, staff of district offices, primary teacher colleges and primary schools,
beneficiaries, and representatives of other funding agencies. Their generosity in giving
time and sharing information and perspectives is greatly appreciated.

       In addition to assessing the projects using OED's standard ratings methodology,
the mission sought to identify potential lessons of wider applicability, from the
experience in Uganda, relating to:

       do's and don'ts in supporting a "big bang" approach to universal primary
       education in low-income countries;
       pros, cons, or synergies of investment versus adjustment operations in financing
       education development;
    0  rapid establishment of a Sector-wide approach (SWAp) for education.

       Following standard OED procedure, copies of the draft PPAR were sent to the
relevant government officials and agencies for their review and comments. A number of
observations were made, which have been incorporated into the PPAR as Annex B.


                                               ix


 Summary

         The Primary Education and Teacher Development Project (PETDP) was approved
 in 1993,to support the government's long-term objectives of access, quality, and
 relevance in the education sector, by monitoring resource mobilization and allocation in
the sector, and by financing specific investments. Through an IDA credit of US$52.6
million and parallel financing by the U.S. Agency for International Development
 (USAID), it aimed to (i) improve teaching and learning in primary schools by
 establishing a primary Teacher Development and Management System (TDMS) and by
providing textbooks and teachers' guides to primary schools, and (ii) enhance strategic
 functions of the Ministry of Education and Sports, including information management,
planning and policy analysis, and reform of curriculum and examinations.

         Midway through implementation of the PETDP, President Museveni fulfilled an
election promise to eliminate primary school fees, in a "big bang" approach to achieving
universal primary education (UPE). The result was an almost doubling of enrollments in
early 1997, overwhelming schools and threatening collapse of the system unless
additional resources could be made available. The Education Sector Adjustment Credit
(ESAC) was prepared quickly and approved in 1998, to ensure that resources existed to
sustain the growth in enrollment, with improved allocation of public resources, efficient
use of resources, availability of quality education inputs, and strengthened sector
management. ESAC funds, combining an IDA credit of US$80 million and a HIPC grant
of US$75 million, were to be disbursed annually in three tranches. The ESAC and the
PETDP were thus implemented concurrently, with overlapping objectives, from mid-
 1998until they closed in December 2000 and June 2001,respectively.

         The ESAC acted as a catalyst for other funding agencies to channel support to
primary education through the budget and helped to establish a framework quickly
through which Uganda's first Sector-wide approach (SWAP) could be developed. The
project design underestimated some of the institutional challenges, including
management of the teachers' payroll. Disbursement of the third tranche was delayed from
May until August 2000, when the Board waived the condition that all primary teachers
active in government-aided primary schools would be on the payroll. The new
decentralization framework also presented more difficulties than had been anticipated.
ESAC targets for reducing pupil-teacher and pupil-textbook ratios were not met, due
largely to the unanticipated continuing growth in enrollments. From the evidence
available, the rapid expansion of enrollments led to a deterioration in learning outcomes.

        This assessment rates overall outcome of the PETDP as moderately satisfactory.
The project had significant achievements, in particular the development of the systems for
teacher training and outreach, supply of instructional materials, and decentralized
classroom construction; however, it was inefficient in its early years and was much less
successful in its objectives to improve strategic central functions. Overall outcome of the
ESAC is rated satisfactory. The operation was highly successful in its overall objective of
assuring the availability of resources to sustain the growth in enrollments and it contributed
to a major improvement in the country's management of external resources to the sector,
but its quality and efficiency objectives were only partially achieved. Institutional
development impact of both projects is rated substantial. Together, the two projects

                                               X


substantially strengthened the institutionalbasis for future sector development, the ESAC
through facilitating a fundamental change in the way resources were channeled to and
within the sector, and the PETDP through building systems and capacity for
implementation. The PETDP failed on some of its ambitious institutional objectives, but its
impact in this respect was still substantial. Sustainabilityof both operations is rated likely.
For the PETDP, management of the systems for teacher training, textbook procurement,
and school construction has been integrated in the Ministry of Education and Sports; the
TDMS in particular has strong national and local ownership. Sustainability of the ESAC is
supported by the strength of government commitment, but involves high risks and will
depend on a continuing high level of external support to the recurrent budget. Bank and
borrower performance are rated satisfactory for both operations.

        The experience in Uganda illustrates what can be achieved, given government
commitment and national ownership of the reform strategy together with responsiveness
on the part of the Bank to government priorities. The Bank's rapid and bold response in
1997 enabled the government to avert a crisis in the education system and to sustain a
more than doubling in primary enrollments, greatly reducing the poverty and gender
barriers to primary schooling. Its subsequent support to donor collaboration through a
Sector-wide approach (SWAP) enabled the Ministry of Education and Sports to develop
and take charge of consultative processes for ongoing policymaking, planning, and
budgeting in the sector. The experience also reveals (i) dangers in giving priority to rapid
expansion of enrollments when institutional capacity is weak and issues for education
quality and efficiency have not been adequately addressed, and (ii) constraints to how far
and how rapidly the SWAp/budget-support model can be applied to support education
when implementing capacity and fiduciary assurance are major concerns.

   Lessons concerning Bank support to expansion of primary education:

        Veryrapid expansion of enrollments, even with appropriate increase infunding,
       is liable to disrupt efforts to improve the efjciency and effectiveness ofsystems
       for delivering inputs to schools andfor monitoring the quality of learning
       processes and outputs. Thorough diagnosis is needed of the weaknesses in these
       systems and of the time.needed to rectify them, to determine absorptive capacity.
       Attention should be given to prioritization and sequencing, to avoid overloading
       the reform agenda. Attempting in Uganda to more than double enrollments at the
       same time as decentralizing management to district councils and reforming the
       curriculum increased the risks for quality and efficiency.

       Toprotect the quality ofeducationwhile expanding the capacity ofthe system,
       project design should be based on analysisof existingstrengths and weaknesses at
       the school and classroom levels,providing a baselinefor monitoring relevant
       indicators.In Uganda, as elsewhere,it is proving difficultto shiftthe focus of
       monitoring and evaluationto classroomprocesses and learning outcomes once input
       ratios have been establishedas the main indicatorsand targets for education quality.

       "Bigbang" expansion ofprimary enrollments has long-term downstreamfiscal
       implications beyondjust theprimary subsector. Uganda is confronting the need to
       increase capital and recurrent funding to post-primary education, now that pupils

                                             xi


      in the universal primary education (UPE) bulge are completing the primary cycle.
      Impacts beyond the education sector are also being felt and questions raised as to
      whether education is over-funded in relation to other sectors. Growth in the
      number of teachers has become a major issue for the public service payroll as a
      whole and is inhibiting pay reform.

Lessons concerning use of adjustment lending through a SWAP for education:

   0  The combination of budget support and investment lending can be an effective
     form of Bank support to expansion ofprimary education in countries with
      commitment to goodpolicies but weak capacity to implement them. The PETDP
      and the ESAC were mutually supportive. Rapid expansion of inputs, financed
      though ESAC, depended on development over time through PETDP of systems
      for teacher development, textbook procurement, classroom construction, and
      some capacity to further develop and manage these systems. It has not yet been
      demonstrated in Uganda that capacity- and institution-building needs in the sector
      can be sufficiently addressed through budget support alone.

   0  Given strong ministry leadership, a SWAP can be quickly established, with
      benefitsfor the coherence ofsector strategy, the quality and national ownership
      of sector policies, and transparency of sector planning and budget processes, but
      itpresents new issuesfor aid management. Despite harmonization of many donor
      requirements in the Ugandan education sector, the demands of the SWAp
      reporting and consultative processes have overstretched ministry capacity. The
      focus of dialogue on policies and budgets has tended to sideline implementation
      issues, and to marginalize nongovernmental organizations -which have become
      the main source of piloting and innovation in the sector. Monitoringhas been
      focused on regulationsand proceduresrather than results, while the demand for
      evaluationcomes largely from funding agencies. And the high stakes in maintaining
      consensus can be a positive incentive to compromise but can also encourage
      glossing over issues that should be addressed.

  0   Maintaining donor andpublic confidence depends on special measuresfor
     fiduciary assurance which can be difJicult to sustain. Channeling external funds to
     the sector through budget support adds to the onus on weak accountability
      systems. In the absence of adequate accounting, monitoring, and reporting
      systems at the district level, innovative techniques were pioneered in Uganda to
     improve accountability. These measures had some impact but it is proving
     difficult to sustain the necessary level of effort. The elimination of school fees had
     the unintended effect of weakening the role of parent-teacher associations and
     reducing the interest of parents in monitoring school finance.

                                                                    Gregory K. Ingram
                                                                    Director-General
                                                                    Operations Evaluation


                                                        1


 1.      Background

POST-CONFLICTRECOVERY

 1.1     Since Uganda emerged in 1986from 15years of traumatic civil conflict and
economic decline, it has been among the top economic performers in Africa and a pioneer
in participatory coordination of development assistance.From 1986,under President
Museveni's government, an extensive and consistent economic reform program has led to a
remarkable recovery. From an extremely low base, the economy grew by an average of
some 6 percent annually and poverty has been substantiallyreduced. At the same time,
Uganda has led the way in adopting new approaches to managing development assistance,
focusing on strategies for poverty reduction and broadening stakeholder involvement in aid
coordination. A Country Economic Memorandum by the Bank in 1995 supported
development of Uganda's Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP), which anticipated the
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) process; and the Bank's participatory approach
in preparing its 1997Country Assistance Strategy also helped to lay the foundation for the
country's Comprehensive Development Framework. Uganda was the first country to
qualify for and receive debt relief under the Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC)
initiative. Starting in the late 1990s, Sector-wide approaches (SWAps) have been
developed, first in education and subsequently in other sectors, bringing together
government, funding agencies, and other stakeholders in dialogue on sector policies, and
coordinating external assistance within agreed sector plans.

1.2     Still, significant problems have persisted. Poverty disparities between regions
have widened and rural development has been relatively neglected. Social indicators are
still poor: female adult literacy was below 60 percent in 2000, and only 34 percent in the
northern region; infant mortality was above 8 percent, and more than one in four children
malnourished. Governance remains weak and capacity building outside core government
has lagged. Corruption is a serious constraint. Decentralization, embarked on in 1993,
produced new problems as well as benefits and the framework is still not fully viable.
Stability of the country has continued to be threatened by hostilities in the north and
involvement in neighboring conflicts.          '

PRIMARYEDUCATION

1.3     Uganda was one of the first countries to borrow from the Bank for education -in
1967.At that time, primary education coverage was low but standards were relatively
high for the region. By 1986, after 15 years of government mismanagement and civil war,
infrastructure had been depleted, administrative and management systems were
inoperative, and schools functioned only through the efforts of parents and communities.
The majority of teachers were untrained, instructional materials scarce, and absenteeism
high. Still, new schools were established by communities and, by 1985, gross primary




1. OED Country Assistance Evaluation, "Uganda: Policy, Participation, People," The World Bank, 2001.

                                                  2


enrollment was estimated at 73 percent.' At this stage, IDA'SThird Education Project
was funding some restoration of infrastructure and development of institutional capacity.

 1.4       In 1987,the new government set up an Education Policy Review Commission to
draw up recommendations for the sector. The subsequent report called for universal
access to primary education (UPE), with measures to improve the quality and relevance
of primary schooling. Based on the commission's recommendations, a 1992 White Paper
defined the government's policies for the sector, including phasing in UPE by 2003
through progressive reduction in tuition fees, upgrading teacher qualifications, improving
the supply of instructional materials, and reforming the curriculum. The Primary
Education and Teacher Development Project (PETDP) was approved in 1993
specifically to support implementation of these policies. It overlapped with the end of two
earlier projects supporting the sector: the Fourth Education Project, which funded
rehabilitation, textbooks, and ministry capacity building, and was rated marginally
satisfactory on completion; and the Program for Alleviation of Poverty and Social Costs
of Adjustment (PAPSCA), which included a largely unsuccessful component for
renovation of primary schools.

1.5        Despite the stated policy for UPE, little attention was given during the early 1990s
to a strategy for increasing access to primary schooling, and official statistics recorded little
change in enrollments. Parents were still funding on average at least 70 percent of the costs,
including teachers' salaries,through tuition fees and parent-teacher association (PTA)
le~ies.~When President Museveni made a pre-election commitment in 1996that all
primary school fees would be eliminated for up to four children in each family as of the
new school year, this resonated with the electorate and resulted in an almost-doubling of
enrollments in 1997.Schools were overwhelmed, the teachers' payroll system collapsed,
and the government appealed to the Bank to help avert crisis. The government's priority for
IDA borrowing shifted from infrastructureto education. The Education Sector
Adjustment Credit (ESAC), combined with a HIPC grant, was approved in 1998,to help
meet the gap in recurrent funding for UPE. The PETDP and the ESAC ran concurrently
until 2001. Since then, the Bank has continued budget support to the sector through a series
of Poverty Reduction Support Credits,the first of which was approved in 2001.

1.6        Following the approval of the ESAC, and production by the Ministry of
Education and Sports (MOES) of its Education Sector Investment Plan (ESIP) also in
1998, some donors already active in the sector shifted their assistance to budget support
for UPE, and others added support through budgetary channels. The ESIP provided the
framework for Uganda's first SWAp, managed by the MOES through twice-yearly joint
government/donor sector reviews and sector working groups, for ongoing policy
development and coordination of external funding. The participation of other
stakeholders - including district officials, members of parliament, NGOs, and academics
-  has been increasingly significant.




2. Official MOES statistics.
3. Reinikka. 2001

                                               3


 PROJECT OBJECTIVESAND COMPONENTS

 Primary Education and Teacher Development Project

 1.7     The objectives of the PETDP at appraisalwere to support the government's long-
 term objectives of access, quality, and relevance in the education sector by monitoring
 resource mobilization and allocation in the sector, and by financing specific investments in
 primary education and primary teacher training (taking into account activities to be
 financed by the U.S. Agency for International Development, USAID), and in strengthening
 strategic functions of the MOES.

 1.8     These objectives, while clearly consistent with national and sector priorities, were
 stated vaguely, in terms of processes rather than specific outcomes and ultimate
 objectives. More specific objectives are implied in the project components:

         Improving Primary School Teaching and Management (US$38.2 million). The
         aim of the first component, in conjunction with USAID, was to improve teaching
         and learning in primary schools through (a) development of a Teacher
         Development and Management System (TDMS), consisting of a network of
         Primary Teachers' Colleges (PTCs), coordinating centers, and outreach schools,
        to provide pre- and in-service training; Bank funds would meet the costs of
         constructing and rehabilitating PTCs and school classrooms, while USAID would
        fund curriculum development, staffing, and training; and (b) improved provision
        of instructional materials, through provision of textbooks and supplementary
        reading materials and revitalization of private sector publishing.

        Enhancing Strategic Ministry Functions (US$l4.4 million). This component
        aimed to strengthen capacity in (a) information management, planning, and policy
        analysis in the Education Planning Unit of the MOES; (b) management and
        information systems at the local level; (c) curriculum reform, through the National
        Curriculum Development Centre; and (d) examination reform through the Uganda
        National Examinations Board (WEB).

Education Sector Adjustment Credit

1.9     The broad objective of the Education Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC) was to
ensure adequate resources to sustain enrollment growth and achieve universal primary
education with improved allocation of public resources, efficient use of resources,
availability of quality education inputs, and strengthened sector management. Prepared
quickly as an adjustment operation, ESAC combined an IDA grant of US$75 million in
the context of HIPC, and an IDA credit of $80 million, to be disbursed annually in three
tranches against an agreed action program.

1.10    The specific objectives of ESAC, as defined in the agreed policy measures were:

                                                          4


      0    Clarijj UPEpolicy, the targeted outcome being wide understanding of respective
           roles by parents, schools, communities, districts, central government and the
           donor community.
      0   Increase resources available to UPE,the target being 19.5percent of total
           recurrent government expenditures allocated to primary education in FY1998/99
           and 17.5percent in 1999/2000,while sustaining parents' understanding of their
           role in supporting primary education.
      0   Increase efficiency in the use ofresources, through the introduction of double
           shifts in schools and piloting and piloting/demonstration of multi-grade teaching,
          to achieve a target pupil-teacher ratio of 1:55; prevention of excess supply of
          teachers, through an action plan based on study of supply and demand; and
          effective and sustainable classroom construction through innovative financing
          methods involving government, communities, parents, and donors.
     0    Protecting quality of teaching and learning through provision of instructional
          materials, the targeted pupil-textbook ratio being 1:3, and reducing the percentage
          of untrained teachers to below pre-UPE4levels by extending the TDMS to cover
          all districts.
     0    Strengthening sector management, though improved inter-ministerial
          coordination in managing the teachers' payroll, eliminating "ghost" teachers and
          having all active teachers on the payroll with timely payment of salaries, and
          reducing the hiring of untrained teachers; implementation of a monitoring system
          for accountability of public funds allocated to districts and schools to achieve
          transparency in use of resources; completion of school mapping and putting in
          place an Education Management Information System (EMIS).


2.        Implementation

PETDP

2.1       Progress was slow before 1997, due in large part to weak project management.
Performance was rated unsatisfactory in the Project Status Report at that stage, with
problems centered on procurement and construction activities. The method used initially
for classroom construction was based on central procurement of materials for the basic
structure, then depending on communities to finish the building. Neither aspect worked
well. Poorly managed central procurement led to delays and allegations of
misprocurement. Materials were damaged and wasted due to lack of storage facilities.
And the capacity of communities was insufficient to meet their contribution. The
procedures evolved gradually to overcome these problems, first shifting to 100percent
funding of school construction by the project, and using more locally-based builders, then
decentralizing procurement through the PTC principals, and finally to districts and school
management committees. Some PETDP activities, including capacity building of the
MOES planning unit and staffing of PTCs, came into conflict with policies, supported by

4. The terms "pre-UPE" and "post-UPE" are commonly used in Uganda to refer to the point at which the new UPE
policy was introduced, Le., the beginning of 1997, when enrollments almost doubled. Uganda has not yet achieved
universal primary education -some 10 to 15 percent of children are still out of school.

the Bank, to freeze public sector hiring. Long-term technical assistance in the MOES was
 found to be ineffective in transferring skills because work pressure on MOES staff was
 such that consultants were used to help do the work rather than train counterparts.
Development of the TDMS went relatively smoothly, aside from early delays in
 construction, in good coordination with USAID, which supported the "software" aspects.

 2.2    The UPE challenge and ESAC preparation in 1997changed the whole picture for
the PETDP, as the education sector suddenly became a top priority for the government and
the Bank. The Bank team considered closing PETDP early and folding it into the ESAC,
but the decision was made to maintain it alongside the adjustment operation. The project
was not formally restructured but, with the expansion of budget support to UPE in 1998-
2000, many of the PETDP activities and outputs that had been project-specific were
supported on a much larger scale by the national budget. In effect, the PETDP provided the
implementing framework and procurement arm for expansion of these activities through
ESAC and other funding, which in turn spurred efforts to pick up performance under the
PETDP.New leadership was installed in the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and
performance was greatly improved for the remaining three years of project implementation.
With hindsight, Bank and government staff consider that the decision to continue
implementing the PETDP alongside the ESAC was the right one.

2.3     After a one-year extension, the project had met most of its targets under the first
component. A nationwide teacher education system was established with physical and
management infrastructure and trained staff. Additional funding from 1998, from the
national budget and other donors, enabled the PETDP's construction unit to almost
double the number of PTCs (18 in total) and coordinating centers (539) that were
provided, and to oversee the construction of some 25,000 additional primary classrooms
from 1997to 2000. The project itself funded 2,782 new classrooms. Training carried out
through the TDMS, for headteachers, untrained teachers, trained teachers and outreach
staff, was substantial, although below targets in some cases. The PETDP's Instructional
Materials Unit (IMU) procured and distributed more than 6 million textbooks funded by
the national budget and other sources. The targeted pupil-textbook ratio was not met
(estimates range from 7:1to 10:1 for 2000), due mainly to the sudden UPE expansion of
enrollments and delays from the curriculum reform process, but the project was highly
successful in introducing a viable and competitive education materials market, leading
subsequently to huge reductions in unit costs.

2.4     The PETDP was less successful in implementation of its second component to
enhance strategic functions of the MOES, although the ESAC helped to stimulate
progress during the last two years in building the capacity of the Education Planning
Unit: staff were recruited, training and technical assistance were provided through
PETDP, and the status of the unit was advanced to that of a department of the ministry.
The EMIS was still not fully operational when the PETDP closed. Plans for improving
the capacity, facilities, and equipment of UNEB were not fully implemented, and
introduction of its National Assessment of Progress in Education did not meet full
expectations. Reforms of curriculum and examinations were long delayed and the results
less than fully satisfactory.

                                                                6


 2.5       By the time the project closed in mid-2001, very substantial capacity had been built
 in the PIU. Although no plans for this had been anticipated in project design, key functions
 and experienced technical staff of the PIU have in fact been integrated in the MOES. With
 the support of USAID conditionalities, the TDMS staff and management have been fully
 integrated in the MOES and relevant university departments, and recurrent costs of the
 program are incorporated in the budget. The IMU has also been integrated, although the
 salaries of some key staff have been externally funded, as for the construction unit. With
 the help of externally funded periodic technical assistance, good progress has been
 sustained on textbook development and procurement (aside from delays for introduction of
 the new curriculum, beyond the control of the IMU), and the procurement process has
 weathered major challenges from vested interests in publishing. Progress on construction
 has slowed somewhat since the project closed. Staff say that supervision of the program has
 been affected by bureaucratic constraints, that quality control has suffered, and it has
 proved difficult to hold district authorities accountable for violations in the tendering
 process or misuse of funds.'

 ESAC

 2.6       The disbursement plan called for tranches to be released annually in fiscal years
 97/98, 98/99, and 99/00. The first two tranches were released with only slight delay,
while the third was not released until August 2000, three months behind schedule, and
required the Board to waive one of the nine release conditions -that all primary
teachers active in government-aided primary schools should be on the payroll.

2.7        Implementation was constrained by three factors in particular that had been
underestimated in preparation:

           The continuing growth inprimary enrollments,which exceeded projections by
           some 20 percent.
           Weaknessesin the systemfor managing the teachers'payroll:the problems in
           payroll management -arrears in teachers' salaries, and cumbersome teacher
           recruitment procedures involving four ministries -had not been resolved or even
           fully appreciated and had to be addressed at the same time as massively
           expanding recruitment.
          Management andfiduciary challengespresented by decentralization. Uganda was
           in the process of decentralizing responsibility for delivery of basic services,
           including primary and secondary schools, to district governments.

2.8       New funding mechanisms were introduced to channel central funding to primary
schools: earmarked capitation grants, known as UPE grants, transferred to the districts
according to the reported number of pupils, to be transferred directly on to each school for
non-wage expenditures, to be managed by School Management Committees according to

5See Annex B: in the Borrower's comments on this report (January, 2004), it is noted that the IMU and CMSU have
now been integrated into the Ministry mainstream and all key posts advertised. In addition, Engineering Assistants have
been recruited in all the districts, significantly helping to improve the quality of construction. Substantial funding is
available to the Unit for monitoring of classroom construction. Sanctions are now being ratified to ensure that district
officers can be held accountable.

                                                7


 strict central guidelines; conditional School Facilities Grants, for the construction of
 classrooms, the allocation between schools to be determined by the district authorities; and
 teachers' salaries, to be transferred on from districts to schools accordingto the number of
 teachers on the payroll. Local governments were given little leeway themselves to
 reallocate resources according to local priorities (beyond what they raised locally), because
 of their lack of experience and capacity at this stage. But at the same time, the new legal
 status of local governments, as defined in the 1997Local Government Act, limited the role
 of the MOES in ensuring local compliance with accounting, reporting, and other
 procedures.


 2.9     Resulting performance in each of the policy areas was variable:

         Community support for and understanding of the UPE policy was improved,
         through a strong campaign of public information dissemination, although with
         limited effect in more remote communities.
     0   The operation was highly successful in increasing the level of resources for UPE,
         through the IDA credit, the HIPC grant, the increased share of government
         resources (exceeding targets), and as a catalyst and framework for support from
         other funding agencies. Parents' participation was confined to voluntary
         contributions, which were significant only in relatively wealthy communities, and
         the obligation to provide lunch for their children: the government was opposed to
         any obligatory parental contributions that might deter the poorest from enrolling.
     0   Proposed efficiencies in the deployment of teachers were not achieved: the
         proposed policies of double-shifting and multi-grade teaching were not
         implemented at the time, and teacher deployment remained highly inequitable
         between locations. More efficient, decentralized methods for classroom
         construction were successfully introduced, based on methods proposed in a
         technical paper commissioned for ESAC preparation and implemented through
         the PETDP's construction unit.
         Declines in education quality, as measured by input ratios, were stemmed, but the
         continuing expansion of enrollments and other unanticipated constraints
         prevented the relatively modest targets from being reached.
         Measures to strengthen sector management were partly successful. Payroll
         management was substantially improved, measures succeeded in removing many,
         though not all, "ghost" teachers from the payroll, and salaries were paid on time.
         Getting all active teachers on the payroll proved more difficult: in May 2000, some
         14percent of primary teaching staff were still not on the payroll. Strong measures
         were taken to improve transparency and accountability of funds released to districts
         and schools, but progress in improving reliability and management of data at central
         and district levels remained weak, and the EMIS was not made operational.


3.       Contribution to Sector Outcomes

3.1      The PETDP and the ESAC overlapped with each other, in objectives as well as
timing, and with the programs and activities of many agencies. In looking at the

                                                                 8


 outcomes, the approach taken here is to assess the strengths and weaknesses of
 developments in the sector as a whole over the relevant time period and to identify where
 possible the contributions of each of the Bank-funded operations.

 PRIMARYENROLLMENTS

 3.2       The huge jump in primary enrollments that occurred in 1997was independent of
 both Bank-funded operations. UPE was not phased in gradually, as proposed in the 1992
 government white paper. Instead, political pressures were a key factor behind the "big
 bang" approach taken by the President at the beginning of 1997, reportedly without prior
 consultation with the Ministry of Education and Sports, much less preparation or
 planning. The Bank operations were oriented to meet the needs of and help sustain the
 expansion of enrollments once this had occurred. The PETDP, in its design, did not
 directly address the strategy or timetable for increasing enrollments; with hindsight, it
 missed the opportunity to contribute to planning of phased expansion, which might have
 pre-empted the drastic measures taken in 1997.At the same time, without the delivery
 systems that were developed through PETDP, it is doubtful that UPE could have been
 considered, and even more doubtful that the jump in enrollments could have been
 sustained. Systems developed under PETDP for training teachers, building classrooms
 and delivering instructional materials provided the basis for efforts to expand the
provision of inputs to meet the new needs, while the ESAC provided essential funding
and supported the policy framework.

3.3        When ESAC was prepared, projections were based on the assumption that a share
of the new enrollments, and especially of the overage pupils, would drop out of school
and that total enrollments would level off. In fact, primary enrollments were not only
sustained but continued to grow. MOES official statistics on enrollments, and especially
on enrollment rates, are not reliable and may somewhat overstate the level from 1997.6
The trend shown is of very slow growth over the early 1990sto just over 3 million in
 1996,jumping to 5.3 million with UPE in 1997,and continuing to climb annually to 7.3
million in 2002 (including some 700,000 pupils in private schools).

3.4       Household surveys indicate lower enrollment than MOES statistics but endorse
the broad trend. From household surveys carried out during the 1990s, net enrollment
rates range from 62 percent to 68 percent before UPE, and from 82 percent to 89 percent
since 1997, despite high population growth. Data from the 1992Integrated Household
Survey and 1999/2000Uganda National Household Survey point to a dramatic impact in
reducing the gender and poverty barriers to primary school access (Figure 1). These
surveys also reveal the diminished importance of costs in the reasons cited for dropping
out or never attending -from 71 percent in 1992to 37 percent in 1999. But a recent
study suggests that gender and poverty level still heavily influence attendance and drop

6.Net enrollment rates of well above 100percent from official statistics make clear that enrollments have been overstated
andor population underestimated. Schools have had an incentive to inflate enrollment figures since the capitation grants
(known as UPE grants) were introduced, while in the early 199Os, when tuition fees were more significant, the balance of
incentives may have been in the reverse direction. A further factor could be improvement over time in the coverage of
schools in Ministry statistics. Another indication that official statistics understate the growth in enrollments in the first half
of the 1990s-when public hnding to primary schools was already increasing -comes from a 1996 school survey that
found a 60 percent growth in enrollments in the sample schools from 1991to 1995.

                                                            9


 out rates.' Neither the PETDP nor
 the ESAC was strongly focused on                   Figure 1. Estimated Net Primary Enrollment
 schooling demand factors or                        Rates,' 1992 and 1999/2000
 gender issues. Gender was a strong                   100                                           IGirlsin
 feature of the USAID program and
 the impact of UNICEF and others,                                                                      poomd
                                                                                                       consumption
 including nongovernmental                             80
                                                                                                       quintile
 organizations, is apparent at the
 local level.                                          60                                              Poorest
                                                                                                       consumption

LEVELAND EFFICIENCYUSE                                                                                 quintile
                                   IN                  40
OF RESOURCES                                           20                                              Total
3.5       Both the PETDP andthe
ESAC had objectivesrelated to                            0
mobilizationand allocationof                                       I992         199WNM
resources,althoughthe PETDP
componentswere only indirectly                       Source: Household Surveys, 1992, 1999-2000

relevant to this. The PETDP was closely coordinatedwith USAID's Supportto the Uganda
Primary Education Reform (SUPER)~rogram,~which did includetranche release conditions
for its program assistancefrom 1993on the level and compositionof expenditureon primary
education.

3.6       The government was strongly committed to increasing the level and share of
resources allocated to primary education from the early 1990swhen it began
progressively substituting private for public finance at the tertiary level. This policy was
consolidated after UPE through the ESIP and supported by conditionalities in the ESAC.
In fact, the minimum targets under ESAC for share of the total recurrent budget to be
allocated to education -19.5percent in 1998199and 17.5percent in 1999/2000-were
exceeded, reaching 20.3 percent and 21 percent, respectively. Targets for the share of
public education expenditure to be allocated to primary (65 percent) were also exceeded
(see Figure 2), due to the faster than projected continuing expansion of primary
enrollments. This was made possible by the scale of external support to the budget, from
bilateral agencies as well as through ESAC: expenditure on primary education more than
doubled, while the government's own expenditures (deducting external funding
earmarked for primary education) declined slightly in real terms during the ESAC
implementation period. The high share of the education budget allocated to primary
education is unlikely to be sustained, however, as the demand for secondary places
expands. The recently agreed strategy for the expansion of secondary education assumes
implementation of a range of efficiency measures (such as double shifting) and still
implies a funding gap in the context of the Medium Term Budget Framework. The


7. "Attendance Patterns and Causes of Dropout in Primary Schools in Uganda," Makerere Institute of Social Research, 2002.
8. "NER': Percentage of children of primary age who are enrolled.
9. USAID's Support to the Uganda Primary Education Reform (SUPER) Program. Nine tranches, totaling US$76
million, were disbursed from 1993 to 2002, supported by project assistance.

                                                           10


 education sector has been dependent on external support for well over half its annual
budget and there is no early prospect of this declining.

  Figure 2. Budget Allocations to Education, 1995-2003

                  8o I------ -- -
                                    Primary's share of education recurrent budget
                  'O 1

                  40 {

                                               Education's share of total budget




                       95/96    96/97    97/98   98/99      99/00 00101    01/02     02/03*   03/04*
                                                                                            *projected

                 Source: Uganda, Public Expenditure Review, World Bank 2002


3.7       The efficiency of expenditure on primary education is difficult to assess in the
absence of reliable data on outcomes, but internal efficiency does not appear to be high.
Public expenditure per pupil has grown faster (by a multiple of about four in U.S. dollar
terms in the decade from 1992)than improvement in per-pupil provision of trained
teachers, classrooms, and books, and it is doubtful that the expenditure has produced an
acceptable level of school quality, as discussed below. Data are unreliable but reports
suggest high drop-out and low rates of primary completion. A policy of automatic
promotion between grades was designed to improve efficiency but could be expected to
have contributed to drop-out and a fall in standards, in so far as it has been enforced. The
composition of expenditure on primary education was a focus of USAID conditionalities
and is relatively strong, in that allocations for non-wage items, including instructional
materials, have been protected, while teachers' pay has been increased to viable levels.

3.8      Measures proposed under ESAC for more efficient employment of teachers and
avoidance of over-supply were intended also to ensure fiscal sustainability but were not
successfully implemented. Payroll management was substantially improved but the
double-shifting in primary schools -official policy from 1992 and agreed under ESAC
-hasnotbeenimplemented,orevenvigorouslypromoted.Thelackofpayincentives
permitted by the Ministry of Public Service for double-shift work made the policy
unattractive to teachers, and the proposal met with some political resistance. Plans to
introduce multi-grade teaching in small, remote schools were also abandoned, or at least
postponed." These measures proved too demanding to introduce, given all the other


10See Annex B: in the Borrower's comments on this report (January, 2004), it is noted that both double-shifting and
multi-grade teaching are now being piloted in some districts.

                                                         11


challenges at the time for MOES capacity. Incentives to attract teachers to remote schools
proved insufficient and deployment continues to be highly inequitable.

3.9       Efforts under PETDP have led eventually (after closure of the project and further
support of the U.K.'s Department for International Development and others) to
remarkable reductions of some 65 percent in the unit costs of textbooks and
supplementary reading materials. Unfortunately, the impact on learning so far is doubtful
because of constraints at the school and classroom level to effective use of the books.
Theft of books for sale on the private market and lack of storage facilities in schools
continue to be serious problems, while training of teachers in book selection and use was
inadequate. The TDMS was made more efficient through closure of some small and
inefficient teacher colleges and now constitutes a potentially cost-effective national
network for future outreach activities as well as pre-service training. Classroom
construction under PETDP was highly inefficient until 1999, when decentralized
procedures were adopted (some of the schools visited by the assessment mission had old
PETDP-funded classrooms still unfinished and unused). But the ESAC stimulated new
approaches and, by closure of the two operations in 2001,an effective, decentralized
system had been established, greatly improving both the costs and the speed of
construction.' Curriculum development, supported by the PETDP, has not been handled
efficiently, with a full-time staff of more than 70 (and annual budget of over US$400,000
equivalent reported for 2001), yet only partially satisfactory results after many years of
work.

3.10
percentof conditionalgrants allocatedfor schools were actuallyreaching the schools.l This
          A surveyof schools by the Bankin 1995revealedthat, at that time, only about 20
                                                                                                          2
promptedconcerted efforts,supportedthrough USAID conditionalitiesin 1997,to publicize
financial allocationsat the districtand schoollevels and improve accountability.ESAC also
emphasizedpublic informationactivitiesto increasetransparencyand accountability.A
subsequentexpendituretracking study contracted by the MOES in 1999indicated great
improvementin the proportion of conditionalgrants to districtsfor non-wage expenditure
that reachedthe schools,increasingto an estimated 90 percent in 2OOO.I3Unfortunately,there
is little systematicinformationon how these fundshave been used, since accounting and
reporting obligationsof districts and schoolshave been mostly unfulfilled.

3.11      Pressures from outsidethe sector are now highlightingthe need for better evidenceof
"value for money" from educationexpenditures,through monitoring of attendance,drop-out
and primary completionrates, trends in learning outcomes,income and welfare impacts.As
the recent decline in growth (moderatingto 5-6 percent a year, against a Poverty Eradication
ActionPlan target of 7 percent) and increasein military expenditurehave forced reductions




11. The decentralized methods are said to have reduced unit costs by about half, to around US$5,000.
12. Ablo E,, and R. Reinikka, 1998."DOBudgets Really Matter? Evidence from Public Spending on Education and
Health in Uganda." Policy Research Working Paper no. 1926. World Bank, Development Research Group.
13. Republic of Uganda, 2000. "Tracking the Flow of and Accountability for UPE Funds." International Development
Consultants for the MOES, Kampala.

                                                           12


 in other sectors,thejustification for protecting education expenditure^'^ is being challenged
 by some macro-economistsand by the sectors hardesthit.

 QUALITY TEACHING
              OF                  AND LEARNING

 3.12     Although trends in learning outcomes have not been well monitored in Uganda,
 there are enough indications to make clear that they have deteriorated since 1996. Indeed,
 it would be surprising if they had not. Even if school inputs had kept perfect pace with
 the huge expansion in enrollments, a decline in average learning outcomes would be
 expected, when the majority of the additional pupils are from poorer households, less
 likely to have educated parents, good health and nutrition, or regular attendance. Some
 "peer effect" might also be expected on the achievements of those who would have been
 in school without the change in policy. These factors appear not to have been well
 planned for and neither of the Bank-funded projects focused much on particular measures
 for disadvantaged pupils or districts.

 3.13     The National Assessment of Progress in Education (NAPE), carried out by UNEB
 in 1996 and 1999 for English and Mathematics among Grades 3 and 6 pupils, found very
 poor performance results in 1999, especially in rural schools in the poorer districts.
 Although comparability was limited by some differences in methodology, these
 assessments indicated a decline after UPE, especially in English. For example, the share
 of Grade 3 pupils meeting the minimum standard declined in English from 92 percent to
 56 percent (and to only 18percent in readinghiting) and in math from 48 percent to 31
 percent. A follow-up assessment due to have been carried out in 2001 was postponed, and
 there is no other source of information to indicate whether recent efforts and relative
 indications that many pupils, especially in rural areas, may be5 gaining little from their
 stabilization of enrollments have helped to restore standards.l                   There have been further

 time in school. An assessment in 199916found that 36 percent of Grade 4 pupils in the
 sample schools failed to reach minimum levels of mastery in English, and 58 percent in
mathematics. Gender differences were small but performance in rural schools was
notably poorer than in urban ones, especially in Life Skills. A more recent study" looking
at competencies in Grade 2 found that minimum or better levels of mastery were
achieved overall by only 20 percent of pupils in literacy and 22 percent in numeracy, with
sharp differences in these rates between schools and districts.

3.14      Deficiencies in quality did not prevent total enrollments from continuing to
increase, but repetition, drop-out, and primary completion rates have not been documented
well enough to be useful indicators. A new study on repetition and drop out in a small



14. Core poverty-related expenditures, including education and health expenditures, are protected in the budget through
the Poverty Action Fund. As a result, when revenues are below target, the impact falls disproportionately on
unprotected sectors.
15. The Primary Leaving Exam is norm-based and hence not usefbl in indicating year-on-year changes.
16. Monitoring Learning Achievement (MLA) project in 1999, funded by UNESCOAJNICEF.
17. R. B. Hicks. Report on the outcome of the baseline study for non-textbook materials in primary classes one and
two, 2002.

                                                          13


sample of schools points to extreme inaccuracy of the ministry's EMIS data.I8It finds
unacceptably high absenteeism and drop out, with the quality of teaching and of school
facilities cited by pupils and parents as two of the many factors.

3.15     "Quality enhancement" targets under ESAC were confined to increasing the
quantity of key inputs -teachers, classrooms, and textbooks -per pupil enrolled. By this
measure, progress was strong but fell short of targets, primarily because of the
unanticipated continuing growth of enrollments. (If actual pupil numbers were lower than
reported, the real ratios may have been somewhat better than estimated.) Efforts to reduce
the pupil-teacher ratio were hampered by unexpectedly cumbersome recruitment
procedures and failure to implement the double-shift policy, as well as the continuing
growth in enrollments. Still, almost 28,000 teachers were added to the payroll from 1997to
2000 -an increase of some 28 percent -producing an average of 65 pupils per teacher
by 2000 (Table 1).The PETDP's Instructional Materials Unit managed the procurement of
over 6 million textbooks altogether, but the estimated pupil-book ratio was still at least 7:1
in 2000. The construction program, managed by PETDP and supported through ESAC and
other finding, completed 8,000 classrooms in FY99-00 alone, but there were still, on
average, some 100pupils per classroom in 2001.It is important to note that the averages
obscure big differences between districts: for example, in 2000, the pupil-teacher ratio in
Arua was 90:1, while pupils averaged 209 per classroom in Bundibugyo.

Table 1. Average Number of Pupils Per Teacher, Classroom, and Textbook

---                            Pre-UPE*           1997*          2000 target
                                                                        ----       2000 actual      - - ~ -
                                                                                                          2001
                          ~~
Pupils per teacher                 40               72                55                 65                58
Pupils per classroom               85              184                --                 106               98
Pupils per textbook                 3               9                 3                   7                nla
Source: MOES
* These estimates are not fully comparable with later years, which count only teachers who are on the
payroll and define classroom more strictly.

3.16     Activities of the PETDP might have had more impact on education quality if they
had been better coordinated and better grounded in information from the classroom level.
The full expectations of the project for the UNEB's NAPE have not been realized. It was
conceived as a central pillar in efforts to focus on and improve performance, with
extensive information dissemination and feedback to teachers, but in fact it has had a low
profile and seems to have stimulated little interest. Examination reform was intended to
introduce continuous assessment and testing of higher-order thinking skills but
coordination with curriculum reform proved difficult, and these measures are still not
filly integrated. The large size of classes from 1997would in any case have made this
difficult. PETDP included plans for extensive training and technical assistance for
UNEB, as well as upgrading facilities and equipment, but these plans were delayed and
only partially implemented.



18. Makerere Institute of Social Research, "Attendance Patterns and Causes of Dropout in Primary Schools in
Uganda," 2002.

                                                14


 Box 1. Constraints at the School Level
 Visits to schools during the assessment mission revealed a variety of issues at the school level,
 aside from shortage of classrooms and teachers:
     Nutrition was a major concern. During the unusually long school day, many children had
    nothing to eat, and teachers said they expected to achieve little in the afternoons. Under the
     UPE policy, it has been the responsibility of parents to provide lunch for their children, but
     not all parents can or do. The schools had addressed this problem in different ways, but none
     had resolved it.
    Books and teachinghearning materials were scant. Secure storage space was typically
    confined to a small cupboard in the headteacher's office. Teachers and headteachers mostly
    reported satisfaction with the quantity and quality of textbooks supplied, but few books were
    seen in use in the classrooms. Shortage of other materials was attributed partly to the
    beginning of the school year: UPE grants came at the end of the month (or half-quarter), so
    even if they came "on time," schools had no funds for the start of the year.
    Teachers felt unprepared to teach the new curriculum; they had received, at best, one day
    of orientation and found the printed guidelines difficult to follow.
    Absenteeism - of both teachers and pupils - was reported to be a serious problem
    with multiple causes, including health, child labor and home chores, school conditions, and
    lack of convenient staff housing.
    Classroom construction under PETDP had not included staff housing, classroom
    furniture or storage, or latrines. Some classrooms still had little furniture. Allowance has
    since been added through the School Facilities Grants for staff housing and furniture, which a
    few of the schools had already benefited from on a small scale. The lack of housing for
    teachers was a particularly widespread preoccupation, making it difficult for rural schools to
    attract and keep teachers, and considered a key factor in teachers' morale and performance.


3.17     The curriculum reform process, supported by PETDP, was driven by perverse
incentives. It was highly centralized, lacked broad participation, and was not well
coordinated with teacher training, examination reform, or textbook procurement.
Teachers participated in subject panels but were minimally involved in piloting materials.
The resulting curriculum is controversial on both educational and cost grounds. Although
improving on the earlier curriculum in terms of relevance, it is still focused on subject
content rather than competencies. Guidelines for teachers have not been geared to
prevailing classroom realities, including the large size of many classes. Fully
implemented, it would add six new subjects, drastically reducing the time spent on math
and English, and the costs of the required teacher training and textbooks would far
exceed the budget. Nevertheless, it was approved by the MOES and has now been
introduced in schools for the four core subjects. Whether or how the remainder of the
curriculum will be implemented, and how teachers will cope with the uncertainty, is not
yet known. Although some differences on the curriculum proposals were already clear in
1993when the PETDP was approved, and there appears to be a broad consensus among
the funding agencies on the problems in the new curriculum, neither the PETDP nor
dialogue through the SWAp was able to produce a satisfactory resolution. Curriculum
reform for secondary schools is now under way, with a danger of similar outcomes unless
some of the issues are resolved. External agencies are understandably reluctant to

                                                              15


 interfere in the sovereign area of curriculum content, but their influence was needed in
 establishing cost parameters, avoiding conflicts of interest, and ensuring that processes
 included the necessary consultation,participation, coordination, and piloting.

 3.18      The TDMS has been much more successful,althoughunfortunately no formal
 assessment is availableof changesin classroompracticesor the impact of the teachertraining
 under PETDP. The network was established nationwide,with physical infrastructureand
 trained staff and has produced a 50 percentincreasein the number of trained teachers.The
 proportion of certifiedteachers in the total grew from an estimated 73 percent in 1995to 83
 percent in 2000.19On the negative side, drop outs were quitehigh from pre- and in-service
 programs, and the pass rate of PTC studentswas only around 60 percent in the certifying
 examination.With the increasein demand,PTCs have been operatingat twice their design
 capacity but with less than half their agreed staff establishment.Rapid nationwideexpansion
 of the system has meantthat coordinatingcenter tutors are stretchedto cover a wider
 catchment area than was originallyplanned.Private "community"schools,often servingthe
 poorest communities,were not covered in the system.

 3.19      Anecdotal evidence suggests that teachers' skills (particularly the use of lesson
 plans) and morale (especially with respect to professional development opportunities)
 were improved through the TDMS, which is highly regarded throughout the sector.
 Coordinating Centre Tutors reported greater sensitivity of teachers to girls' needs, more
 attention to HIV/AIDS,life skills, health and sanitation, less corporal punishment, and
 more involvement of parents. The recent elimination of fees for PTCs has increased
 competition for entry and the quality of selected candidates. The teaching force has
historically been male-dominated, but at least 50 percent of new teacher trainees are now
women. Teachers reported that prestige of the profession had been enhanced, due to the
new opportunities for professional development (as well as better pay). It is difficult to
know what impact the program has had on school and teacher performance through the
UPE period, but it is clear that Uganda now has a popular and viable system for training
and outreach with the potential to play a role in quality improvement in the future.

3.20      Through the PETDP, and through provision by the government of regular book
budgets (strongly supported by USAID, DBD, and others), Uganda now has a strong
system for ordering, procuring, and distributing textbooks, and experienced staff to
manage this system. A significant textbook market has been created and the number and
capacity of private Ugandan publishing companies has increased substantially. (The
opportunity to promote development of local book retailing has only been taken up since
the project closed.) A range of competing alternative textbooks with local authorship was
made available for primary grades, with decisions on book selection made at the school
level. The PETDP supported a fundamental review of instructional materials policy in
1999-2000, resulting in MOES approval of a program of reforms initiated in 2000 with
the full support of the Education Funding Agencies Group (EFAG). The main
weaknesses have been the failure to upgrade school storage and improve classroom usage
of instructional materials, the abandonment of PETDP plans for the provision of


two years later in 2002, but the share of certified teachers in the total is reported to have fallen from 83 percent in 2000
19. Since the ESAC and PETDP closed, progress in teacher recruitment has been sustained, reaching the 55:l target
to only 62 percent in 2002 -below its 1995 level.

                                                16


 supplementary reading materials, and weak coordination with curriculum reform. The
 impact on teaching and learning performance was also greatly impeded by the growth in
 enrollments.Nevertheless, as with the TDMS, the system is well placed to support future
 initiatives for improvement in the quality of primary education.

 SECTOR GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT
                          AND

3.21     Weak governance and management capacity continue to be serious constraints.
On the positive side, sector strategy is government-owned, central budget institutions are
strong, and commitment to consultation and information dissemination is clear. In other
respects -fiduciary assurance, data management, monitoring and evaluation, local
government and MOES capacity -progress in the sector has been slow and difficult and
depends in part on broader public sector reform, which has also been slow. From
discussions with central and local government staff and donor representatives, and from
press and NGO publications, concerns about corruption at all levels appear to be
widespread, especially in relation to textbooks and management of School Facilities
Grants.

3.22     At the central level, capacity has improved substantially since the mid-1990s.
Little progress was made under PETDP up to 1997, due in part to lack of interest in the
MOES -when the project was implemented through a separate project unit -and the
freeze on creating additional posts, which delayed staffing of the planning unit. From
1997, when the UPE crisis made the sector a top priority for the government, and the
ministry was committed to preparing the ESIP, the PETDP was able to make headway in
supporting capacity of the education planning unit, which was upgraded to a full
department of the ministry. It still fell short of plans, especially with respect to the EMIS,
which was not fully operational when the project closed.

3.23     The ESAC had an important impact at the central level. Directly and indirectly, the
ESAC facilitated a transformation in mobilizing and managing external aid to the sector:
transparency, coordination, and consultation in central education budget preparation have
been greatly improved, based on agreed sector plans, within the Medium Term Budget
Framework and the Poverty Eradication Action Plan. Improved inter-ministerial
coordination in managing the teachers payroll made it possible to reduce the number of
"ghost" teachers on the payroll, streamline recruitment procedures to get active teachers on
the payroll more quickly, and pay teachers on time. These were significant achievements in
the circumstances, although they fell short of targets. Teacher deployment remained highly
inequitable and proposed eficiency measures were not implemented.

3.24     Although decentralization was a clear policy from 1993, and the Local
Government Act was passed in 1997,neither the PETDP nor the ESAC included
concerted measures for building sector capacity at the district level. The PETDP included
a component for management and information systems at the local level, which had not
been fully implemented when the project closed. The ESAC, as an emergency operation,
did not address long-term capacity building in local government as such, but focused on a
concerted strategy for information dissemination to ensure that local stakeholders
understood the respective roles and responsibilities of parents, schools, and local
governments. Other relevant measures, including USAID conditionalities for public

                                                        17


posting of district and school financial data, had already been initiated, prompted in part
by results of the Bank's 1995 expenditure tracking survey. These measures together were
found to have been responsible for a large share of the gains made by 1999 in preventing
leakage of the funds allocated to schools.2oNevertheless, staff charged with monitoring
construction through the Schools Facilities (SFG) Grants found that the measures were
effective as an accountability mechanism only in communities that were literate and
assertive enough to act when abuse was revealed; it was not clear to them that
communities were actually empowered to take action and it was easy to "buy off' a few
people in very poor communities. There are indications that diligence and public interest
in public posting of the information on UPE and SFG grants has diminished recently.

3.25      Huge disparities exist between districts in management and organizational
capacity. Incentives for them to devote this capacity to the competition for central funds
have been effective in some respects but possibly counterproductive for equity and for
local resource mobilization: UPE inspired tremendous motivation and enthusiasm at the
local level but has been seen very much as a central government commitment to "free"
primary education. District politicians have tended to be judged by their ability to hold
the government to this promise, rather than to take on responsibility themselves. This
tendency has been underlined by the strict earmarking of grants to districts for primary
education. A number of multi-sectoral interventions are under way to build capacity at
the district level and the MOES is piloting non-conditional grants to a few districts. Some
districts may be able to rise to this quite quickly (and the Local Government
Development Program has demonstrated that districts give priority to education in the use
of unconditional grants) but, nationally, this is a long-term challenge that was not
accounted for by either of the Bank sector operations.

3.26      The strength of organization and management at the school level also varies
greatly between schools. The crucial role of headteachers has been recognized in the
salary structure, which not only pays the headteacher a multiple of the salary hidher
teachers receive but also pays substantially more than for tutors in PTCs and coordinating
centre schools (contributing to the difficulty in staffing PTCs). School Management
Committees, which are now responsible for the school budget, have relatively small
parent representation and are often dominated by the headteacher. PTAs, which used to
be the dominant organization, are still important in some schools but have lost their clout,
now that they cannot levy fees and depend on voluntary efforts. The PETDP included
training of headteachers and, through tutors in coordinating centers, training of members
of School Management Committees or "community mobilizers." No formal evaluation of
the training is available. From interviews on the assessment mission, the training has
been appreciated at the school level. However, the level of community participation has
been disappointing in the majority of schools, despite the training under PETDP and the
publicity measures under ESAC to promote participation. Community members have
often been unwilling or unable to devote their time without compensation.

3.27     Neither project had an important impact on capacity for monitoring and
evaluation in the sector. There was relatively little national interest in the NAPE reports
supported by PETDP. Under the ESAC, activities were focused on monitoring

20. Reinikka and Svensson, "Explaining Leakage of Public Funds," 2001.

                                                           18


 expenditure and school inputs rather than producing information on outcomes and cost
 effectiveness to support decision making. District and school authorities have lacked the
 human capacity, financial resources, and incentives to fulfill their respective roles. The
 division of responsibilities between PTC-based outreach staff, under the MOESBETDP,
 and district education staff was not clarified: both have been charged with supervision,
 monitoring and inspection functions with insufficient staff and resources to accomplish
 these effectively. The ministry's EMIS, supported by PETDP and ESAC, is finally
 operational, after closure of the projects, and used for the ministry's annual statistical
 reports; but verification of data continues to be a serious problem and nothing is yet
 included on outcomes, Recent studies drawing a sample of schools from the EMIS
 database have shown that ghost teachers, and even ghost schools have not been
 eliminated, and that the EMIS data are unreliable in other respects as well.''


 4.         Ratings

 OUTCOME

 Relevance

4.1        The objectives of both operations were consistent with the Bank's country
 strategy, with country and sector priorities, and with the government's poverty reduction
efforts. The PETDP was consistent with the broad strategy outlined in the Bank's
Country Brief of 1992. The ESAC supported the national UPE policy and was fully in
line with the country's Poverty Eradication Action Plan.

Efficacy

4.2        Efficacy in achieving objectives was mixed for the PETDP, and less than
substantial overall. The project was largely successful in implementing planned activities
under its first component (see para. 2.3) for improvement of teaching and learning, but no
formal evaluations are available of the impact of the TDMS on classroom practices or
learning outcomes, while the impact of textbook provision was hindered by constraints to
effective use of the books in schools. The PETDP was less successful in its objectives
under the second component of enhancing strategic central functions. Efficacy of the
ESAC in meeting its objectives, as defined in the policy matrix, was substantial overall
(see para. 2.9): although efficacy was only modest on the important efficiency and quality
objectives, it was high in increasing the resources available to sustain the growth in
enrollments, and substantial in clarifying UPE policy and in strengthening sector
management.



21. For example, in a sample of 16 schools drawn recently from the EMIS database to investigate drop-out and
attendance rates, 3 schools were mis-represented in the EMIS: one did not exist, and the other two were private, not
government-aided, schools teaching only to grade 4 or 5. The EMIS data on drop-outs in the sample schools bore no
relation to the rates found by the study team. Also see Annex B: efforts are being made to address issues for the quality
of EMIS data, as indicated in the Borrower's comments on this report (January, 2004).

                                                               19


 Efficiency

 4.3       Efficiency of the PETDP improved greatly from 1998but was modest overall.
 Until decentralized procedures were introduced in the last two years of the project, cost
 effectiveness of civil works was low. The extensive technical assistance funded by the
 project did not result in the expected transfer of skills. The curriculum review process
 supported by the project was highly inefficient, taking several years longer than planned
 without producing satisfactory results.

 4.4       Efficiency of the ESAC is rated substantial,although difficult to assess in the
 absence of data on learning or welfare benefits.22Indications on internal efficiency are
 mixed, but some improvements were achievedthrough the projects, as noted above. An
 expenditure tracking survey found that as much as 90 percent of funding allocated for
 "UPE grants" to schools did actually reach the schools, although usually with delay, but
 there is no systematic information on how this was spent by the schools and to what effect.
 With no reliable information on learning outcomes, or even primary completion rates, the
 efficiency of expenditure in the subsector, and hence of the ESAC, is difficult to estimate.

 Overall Outcome

4.5        This assessment rates overall outcome of the PETDP as moderately satisfactory
 and of the ESAC as satisfactory. Although the PETDP had some significant
achievements, its shortcomings -in particular, inefficiencies and delays during the first
four years of implementation and limited impact in improving strategic central functions
of curriculum development, assessment and information systems -preclude a fully
satisfactory rating. In the ESAC, efficacy was modest in the critical policy areas of
protecting quality and improving efficiency, and was high in only one of the five policy
areas (increasing resources available for UPE), precluding a highly satisfactory rating.

INSTITUTIONAL           DEVELOPMENTIMPACT

4.6        Institutional development impact of both the PETDP and the ESAC is rated
substantial. Each project depended to an extent on the other for its institutional impact.
The ESAC helped to build capacity in policy development and sector management
through learning-by-doing, and facilitated a fundamental change in the way resources are
channeled to and within the sector, providing a much stronger institutional basis for
ongoing sector development. It depended for this in part on the systems and
implementation capacity that had been developed through PETDP -systems that took
time to build and could be refined and expanded to meet the new demand. The most
significant contributions of the PETDP were (together with assistance through USAID)
the establishment of a nationwide system for teacher development with a network of
teacher educators and outreach schools, and an efficient and competitive system for


22. The economic rationale for the ESAC was based on pre-UPE estimates of the effects of schooling on productivity
(social returns to primary education of about 16 percent, and 13 percent higher productivity of farmers with primary
education), but this is not entirely valid. First, most of the expansion of enrollments occurred prior to the ESAC and
cannot be attributed to the project. Second, there is every reason to expect a change in the earnings differential related
to primary education post-UPE, when enrollments have almost tripled and learning outcomes have deteriorated.

                                                         20


textbook procurement with substantially increased private sector publishing capacity.
After some evolution, and through the stimulus of the ESAC, the project also developed
an efficient decentralized system for classroom construction and strengthened the
planning capacity of the Ministry. Although the PETDP succeeded only partially, or
failed to achieve some of its ambitious institutional objectives, its overall impact in this
respect was nevertheless substantial.

SUSTAINABILITY

4.7        Sustainability of both operations is rated likely. The most significant
achievements of the PETDP were its contributions to establishing the TDMS, and the
new systems for textbook procurement and classroom construction. Benefits of the
investment in TDMS are highly likely to be sustained. In addition to the medium-term
benefits of improved skills and morale of existing tutors, teachers, and headteachers, the
system itself enjoys strong national and local ownership. It is highly valued at all levels in
the sector and its central management and budget have been fully integrated in the MOES
and the University of Kyambogo. The full benefits of the work on textbook publishing
and procurement have been realized after closure of the PETDP. Management of the
system for provision of instructional materials has been integrated in the MOES, but
sustainability is somewhat less assured than for the TDMS: it is inherently more
vulnerable to vested interests and still depends at least in the short term on continuing
external support to salaries and technical assistance. There is no formal provision for
maintenance of the classrooms constructed under PETDP.

4.8       Sustainability of the benefits of ESAC will depend on a continuing high level of
external support to the recurrent budget over at least the medium term. Positive indications
justifying the likely rating are national ownership and the strength of government and
MOES commitment to the sector strategy and budget priority, and maintenance so far of
the level of donor commitments to the sector and to the Sector-wide Approach. But the
risks are substantial. The recent budget squeeze is raising the question of thejustification
for protecting education expenditures, increasing the urgency of demonstrating value for
money in the sector. Donors have concerns on fiduciary assurance and different views on
appropriate conditionality for assistance. Maintaining confidence and momentum will
depend on progress in addressing the institutional constraints to program delivery,
monitoring and evaluation, and also on broader public sector reform.23

BANKPERFORMANCE

4.9       Overall, Bank performance is rated satisfactory for both the PETDP and the
ESAC. Quality at entry of the PETDP, however, was unsatisfactory. The project was
ambitious, considering sector capacity, and it should have addressed prioritization and
feasible sequencing of the government's proposed reforms. It also neglected some
important issues that should have been incorporated: in particular, it did not explicitly
address the strategy for achieving UPE (although the government's stated policies for


23. OED country studies in Uganda for evaluations of Comprehensive Development Framework, HIPC, and PRSP
have also raised concerns in relation to sustainability.

                                               21


UPE included a proposed implementation timetable within the life of the PETDP),
missing the opportunity to contribute to planned expansion. Factors affecting the demand
for schooling were largely ignored and no targets were established for the expansion of
enrolments or for protectiodimprovement of learning outcomes. Issues in the proposed
curriculum reform were identified but neglected in project appraisal. Design did not
respond to the impact of the HIV/AIDS crisis at the time, or to the gender gap in primary
education. Some lessons from earlier operations were not incorporated: the proposed
methods for classroom construction were based on the unsuccessful approach used under
the Program for Alleviation of Poverty and Social Costs of Adjustment (PAPSCA);
evaluations of preceding education projects had emphasized the need to ensure that
schools had storage facilities for textbooks and training in selection and use of the books.

4.10     Supervision of the PETDP was relatively strong, especially during the latter part of
the project, responding to implementation issues and to the new demands presented by
decentralization and the UPE declaration in 1996.Responsiveness to implementation issues
was substantially increased during the course of the project by strengthening capacity in the
Country Office. Effective coordination was maintained with USAID in development of the
TDMS. Despite several changes of task manager and insufficient focus by the team
throughout implementation on classroom-level issues, supervision was satisfactory overall.

4.11     Identification and preparation of the ESAC were exemplary in some important
respects. The Bank acted very quickly, perceiving an opportunity to enable the
government to handle the pressure of new enrollments, while promoting coordination
between the MOES and the Ministry of Finance and supporting them in development of a
country-owned strategic plan for the sector. Particular strengths in preparation were the
emphasis on borrower ownership, and the involvement of inter-ministerial working
groups in producing technical papers. A particular strength in design was the emphasis on
channeling funds to schools and on public information to support accountability and
parent participation. The choice of a sector adjustment instrument combined with the first
HIPC release was innovative and appropriate. Collaboration with other funding agencies
was initially weak but this was arguablyjustified by the urgency of the situation. Other
agencies were invited to participate as observers in negotiations. Responsiveness of the
Bank team to client needs in rapidly changing circumstances, and its openness to
innovation, enabled the Bank to play a critical role in avoiding crisis and developing new
opportunities in the country. Had there been a failure of courage on the part of the Bank
team to act as quickly and decisively as it did, the outcome cannot be known but would
surely have been much less positive.

4.12    Significant shortcomings in the design of the ESAC are also evident and were due
in part to insufficient institutional and school-level analysis. Implementation constraints
(such as complexities of the payroll system, lack of district-level financial management
capacity) were anticipated but underestimated. Design did not draw on analysis of quality
and other issues at the classroom level. No baseline was established for monitoring the
quality of teaching/learning processes or outcomes. In the circumstances, it was
reasonable to focus on the immediate challenge of increasing the supply of key inputs,
but the omission of any quality targets beyond input ratios was a serious shortcoming.
Risks were understated and the question of sustainability was not adequately addressed.

                                              22


Project documents should have highlighted explicitly the long-term implications of the
operation for Bank commitments to the sector in Uganda.

4.13    Supervision of the ESAC was satisfactory, through strong continuous support
from the Country Office, and the six-monthly sector reviews which ensured coordination
with the PETDP, and with the activities of other funding agencies within the ESIP, as
well as with ongoing policy development and the Poverty Eradication Action Plan. But
earlier attention should have been given during supervision to the quality, efficiency, and
monitoring issues that had been passed over in preparation.

BORROWERPERFORMANCE

4.14    Borrower performance for both operations is rated satisfactory. Government
commitment to primary education remained strong throughout the period and was
demonstrated through progressive increases in the share of the budget allocated to the
primary subsector. For the PETDP, borrower performance was stronger in the second half
of the project. In the early years, progress was slowed by the government's lack of
interest in technical assistance and by weak management of the project unit. Performance
of the implementing agency was unsatisfactory until the last three years of the project,
when new management was installed. The sudden decision in 1996to accelerate UPE
through immediate elimination of fees for all primary grades, instead of through planned
phasing of expansion, put excessive stress on the whole system and inhibited the potential
of the PETDP to improve the quality of teaching and learning.

4.15    Government ownership of the ESAC agenda was exemplary and processes for
preparation and implementation were open and collaborative. The government
maintained constructive dialogue and was proactive in addressing most issues as they
arose, including allocation of resources above the agreed target levels when enrollments
exceeded projections. Some issues in particular should have been addressed more
vigorously: averting problems from the curriculum reform process; the introduction of
double-shifting; and making the EMIS operational. Progress was slowed by procurement
issues and by weaknesses in payroll management. And the government shares some
responsibility with the Bank for the lack of earlier attention to the risks for quality and
sustainability, and to the need for baseline data to monitor impacts.


5.      Adjustment Lending and Sector-wideApproach
5.1     Since 1998,when the ESAC was approved, Uganda has developed significant
new approaches to managing external aid for education -approaches that have been cited
    r
as a potential model for external assistance to Education For All. Beyond assessment of
the two Bank-funded projects, this report also offers some comments on the experience
over the last five years in development of a SWAP and pooling budget support for the
sector in Uganda.

5.2      Interest in developing an education Sector-wide approach (SWAP) in Uganda
dates back to 1996-97, and it came into full effect in 1999. Its purpose has been to

                                             23


involve donors and local stakeholders in dialogue on sector plans and to harmonize
external assistance within a clear strategy and budget for the sector. The partnership
between the MOES, the Education Funding Agency Group (EFAG), and other
stakeholders is managed through a highly structured process based on six-monthly sector
reviews, with the ESIP providing the strategic framework, and on-going coordination
achieved through sector working groups and regular meetings of the Ministry's
Education Sector Consultative Committee and of EFAG. Almost all external agencies
supporting education are now members of EFAG and working within the ESIP
framework, whether through budget support or projects. The core members of EFAG, for
whom the SWAp arrangements have been critically important, are those using budget
support mechanisms to channel assistance. Tranche release has been triggered by
conditionalities, or "undertakings," harmonized and reduced in number, and agreed at
eachjoint government/donor sector review.

ROLEOF THE BANK

5.3     From discussions with those involved, strong leadership of the MOES is widely
cited as the key condition that made it possible to implement and sustain the education
SWAP in Uganda. The ESAC played a role in supporting it, since preparation was
coordinated with development of the MOES's sector plan (the ESIP), which in turn
provided the framework for the SWAp. The ESAC also provided a catalyst for other
donors to come in with budget support to the sector. It seems that the initial drive for a
SWAP came from the then-Minister of Education, with the support of some donors, in
particular DffD. The Bank, which was criticized by other funding agencies for not
collaborating more in the early stages of ESAC preparation, became more proactive in
supporting the SWAP and DffD leadership of the EFAG from 1999-2000 onwards.
Ironically, it may have been the Bank's rather unilateral approach to initial dialogue with
the government on ESAC that helped to cement government ownership and establish a
framework quickly within which the SWAp could then develop.

5.4     Relations now among education funding agencies in Kampala and between the
MOES and these agencies, appear to be exceptionally good. Dialogue is remarkably frank
and constructive. The approach taken by the Bank team is "to support other agencies
while ensuring that the technical work is done." Among the agencies and in the MOES,
the Bank is generally perceived as having played a valuable role in the EFAGMOES
partnership, providing strong day-to-day support and continuity through a senior officer
posted in the World Bank Country Office, and high-quality technical inputs. Trust-funded
sector studies and Bank sector work were instrumental in informing the strategies for
post-primary and tertiary education. Other areas of focus and impact by the Bank on
policy dialogue included research on teacher supply and demand, recruitment,
deployment, and payroll access, and classroom construction. Some representatives of
other agencies would have welcomed a stronger stand by the Bank on curriculum
development issues.

                                                      24


EMERGINGISSUES

 5.5    The SWAp/sector review process is widely agreed to have improved the quality
of sector policies, and helped to ensure that external assistance is channeled to priorities
within a coherent strategy for the sector and a Medium Term Budget Framework.
Increasingly, it has also included local-government and nongovernment stakeholders
(NGOs, members of parliament, academia) in discussion of policies and budget priorities.
Some participants noted that, with hindsight, the ownership and role on the part of NGOs
could have been stronger had they been included from the outset. The SWAP has proved
strong enough to handle a number of contentious issues. Recently, for example,
agreement was reached on a costed strategy for post-primary education, after several
years of debating differences among funding agencies, and competing views and interests
of national stakeholder groups.24Threats to the textbook procurement policy were also
dealt with successfully. Difficulties in curriculum reform have proved more stubborn.

5.6      At the same time, drawbacks of the approach are increasingly apparent and some
of the inherent tensions and risks are not being addressed squarely. Among the funding
agencies, there are different views on how far and fast the SWAP model should be
extended to common pooling of resources through general budget support and through
MOES-managed funds for technical assistance and studies: some agencies are working at
least partly through nongovernmental organizations in order to ensure additionality in
their priority area; some continue with project assistance but within the ESIP framework;
some are mixing project and program support; and some use only budget support
channels, whether earmarked, sector-specific, or multi-sectoral. The latter approach has
obvious advantages, but the further one moves along this continuum, the higher are the
stakes for all involved, and hence the incentives to maintain goodwill and consensus,
through compromise when necessary. A number of relevant concerns were expressed or
implied in interviews for this report:

        Some agencies are maintaining, or shifting back to, a project approach, for a
        variety of reasons: prevalence of corruption and weak fiduciary assurance;
        concern that budget support keeps the focus on policies and budgets, which are
        now in relatively good shape, while implementation capacity is lagging; lack of
        confidence in the government's management of security threats and military
        expenditure; unwillingness to depend, in effect, on World Bank/IMF management
       of conditionalities.

       Following good principles of promoting "learning-by-doing" and national
       ownership, funding agencies have shifted part of the burden of aid management to
       the MOES. Although compensated to some extent by harmonization of donor
       requirements, this burden has proved very heavy. The capacity of the MOES, and
       especially its planning department, is severely stretched to meet the demands of
       the SWAp processes in data management, analysis, evaluation, selection and
       supervision of consultants, production of reports, and so on, as well as
       administration of sector reviews and routine demands of EFAG members relating
       to their own process requirements (including, of course, this assessment by OED).

24. MOES, "Draft Policy and Costed Framework for the Expansion of Post Primary Education and Training," 2003.

                                                          25


          An analysis is needed of how much of this work is helping to build core ministry
          capacity, and how much is diverting it from higher priorities.

          Aware of this burden on the Ministry, and on the principle also that donors should
          not be micro-managing aid, the response of EFAG members has tended to be to
          step back and lighten their demands rather than take on more themselves. Some
          have consolidated their field representation and it has been proposed that annual
          rather than six-monthly sector reviews may now be sufficient.However, not
          everyone in EFAG and the MOES is comfortable with what they see as a trend
          toward disengagement of donors. Some think it may be premature, given the lack
          still of adequate checks and balances in the sector, and they are concerned that the
          value of external advice will diminish if fewer agencies have education staff with
          thorough knowledge of grassroots realities in the country.

     0    A basic principle of the SWAp is that the government/MOES be "in the driver's
          seat," but there is considerable tension and ambivalence about what this really
          means, or should mean, for the role of fimding agencies. Donors rightly want to
          avoid insisting on policies or reforms that are not nationally "owned" and to depend
          as far as possible on national processes to resolve differences, but the reality is
          more complex. In practice, funding agency representatives find themselves called
          upon frequently to intervene and influence decisions in the context of competing
          views and interests within the country, the government, and within the MOES itself.
          And MOES officials hardly feel themselves to be in the driver's seat, when they are
          driven by EFAG conditionalities on the one hand and Ministry of Finance
          management of multi-sectoral budget support operations on the other.

5.7       The danger is that these issues, and the institutional constraints they reflect, are
glossed over because of the stakes in maintaining commitment to the process. At the
same time, questions have been raised as to whether the SWApPoverty Reduction
Support Credit (PRSC) model, as currently adopted in Uganda, can be sufficiently
effective in promoting institutional capacity. The Bank's PRSC team perceives a gap here
and is giving thought to a new supplementary instrument directed to capacity building.
The particular institution- and capacity-building issues for delivery, monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) of education need specific attention.

5.8       The use of budget support channels for external funding to the sector has
strengthened the focus on M&E, which is a priority for donors: it is important to funding
agencies for fiduciary assurance and their own accountability, as well as for the
development of Uganda's education system. Sector monitoring activities have been
focused primarily on compliance with procedures and regulations, while evaluation
activities have been largely instigated by donors. So far, these activities have fallen
                                                              *'
short of meeting fiduciary requirements, much less informing sector policy through
monitoring cost effectiveness and relating inputs to results.



25. Arild Hauge, "Effective implementation of Uganda's Poverty Eradication Action Plan: The role of monitoring and
evaluation in the Health, Education and Water sectors," 2002.

                                                             26


 5.9       Although the focus of dialogue in sector reviews is now on improving education
 quality, the use of budget support may have encouraged the recent focus on procedures
 and management of expenditure on inputs, at the expense of knowledge on what is
 actually happening in schools. Substantial resources have been devoted to M&E activity
 geared to the extensive requirements under the Poverty Action Fund, but activities are
 often duplicative and few produce useful products. More attention has been given since
 the projects closed to introducing results-based management in the Poverty Eradication
 Action Plan as a whole (under the direction of the Ministry of Finance, whose capacity is
 relatively strong), but M&E capacity in the education sector appears far from being able
 to support this. The new Education Standards Agency is planned to coordinate and
 improve information on education processes and outcomes and it is hoped that this will
 help to eliminate some existing inefficiencies rather than add another layer.

 5.10      It appears that the expectations of funding agencies have exceeded the capacity of
 the sector to deliver on M&E, as well as the demand among education decision makers in
 Uganda for M&E outputs. A first step would be to understand and address the constraints
to getting reasonably reliable basic school-level data.26Until this is achieved, there is
 little to be gained from entering the data in computers, and policymakers are unlikely to
be pressing for the results of the analysis. Introducing incentives for schools and districts
to identify and monitor their own outcome indicators and targets might be useful,
 although it would require intensive facilitation. Trying to short-cut what probably has to
be a long-term process toward results-based management could risk breeding cynicism
on the part of those charged with M&E tasks. The difficulties being experienced in the
education sector even in wealthy countries provide some perspective.


6.         Lessons

6.1       The experience in Uganda illustrates what can be achieved, given government
commitment and national ownership of the reform strategy together with responsiveness on
the part of the Bank to government priorities. The Bank's rapid and bold response in 1997
enabled the government to avert a crisis in the education system and to sustain a more than
doubling in primary enrollments, greatly reducing the poverty and gender barriers to
primary schooling. Its subsequent support to donor collaboration through a Sector-wide
approach (SWAP) was critical to enabling the MOES to develop and take charge of
consultativeprocesses for ongoing policymaking, planning, and budgeting in the sector.

6.2       The experience also reveals:

     0    dangers in giving priority to rapid expansion of enrollments when institutional
          capacity is weak and issues for education quality and efficiency have not been
          adequately addressed, and


26. The constraints to accuracy of basic sector data in Uganda include a range of perverse incentives (e.g., for schools
to overstate enrollments, understate retention and drop-outs; payment of allowances to staff for monitoring activities
unrelated to the quality or accuracy of the output), lack of information or training (suppliers of information are unaware
of what exactly is needed and for what purpose), and practical constraints (e.g., teachers' registers are badly designed).

                                               27


        constraints to how far and how rapidly the SWAp/budget-support model can be
        applied to support education expansion when implementing capacity and
        fiduciary assurance are major concerns.

6.3     Uganda has met the conditions usually cited as necessary for common pooling of
external funding to education through budget support: government commitment and
ownership, macroeconomic stability, transparent and disciplined central budget
processes, and good sector policies. The experience makes clear that more systematic
attention should also be given to institutional constraints, and to matching the level of
funding to absorptive capacity in the sector.

6.4     Uganda has also pioneered a range of "good practice" models for low income
countries committed to Education For All:

        for coordination and consultation in sector policy development and budgeting
        within a PRSP and MTEF framework;
     0  for financing mechanisms that channel funds to schools, combined with measures
        to strengthen information and accountability (expenditure tracking surveys, use of
        press and radio, public posting of financial data by schools and districts);
     0  for pre- and in-service teacher training, through a national network of training
        colleges, coordinating center schools, and outreach schools;
     0  for provision of low-cost instructional materials, through competitive
        procurement, private sector development, and book choice at the school level.

LESSONS    FOR SUPPORTING EXPANSION PRIMARY EDUCATION
                                           OF

6.5     Veryrapid expansion of enrollments, even with appropriate increase infunding,
is liable to disrupt efforts to improve the effectiveness of systemsfor delivering inputs to
schools andfor monitoring the quality of learningprocesses and outputs. Thorough
diagnosis is needed of the weaknesses in these systems and the time needed to rectify
them, to determine absorptive capacity. Attention is needed to prioritization and
sequencing, to avoid overloading the reform agenda. Attempting in Uganda to more than
double enrollments at the same time as decentralizing management to district councils
and reforming the curriculum increased the risks for quality and efficiency.

6.6     Toprotect the quality of education while expanding the capacity of the system,
project design should be based on analysis of existing strengths and weaknesses at the
school and classroom levels,providing a baselinefor monitoring relevant indicators. In
Uganda, as elsewhere, it is proving difficult to shift the focus of M&E to classroom
processes and learning outcomes once input ratios have been established as the main
indicators and targets for education quality.

6.7     ,`Big bang" expansion ofprimary enrollmentshas long-term downstreamfiscal
implicationsbeyondjust theprimary subsector. Uganda is confronting the need to increase
capital and recurrent funding to post-primary education, now that pupils in the UPE bulge
are completing the primary cycle. These implications should be taken into account up front
but they lie outside the typical medium-term framework for fiscal projections and beyond a

                                               28


 plausible time frame for commitments by funding agencies. Impacts beyond the education
 sector are also being felt and questions raised as to whether education is over-funded in
 relation to other sectors. Growth in the number of teachers has become a major issue for the
 public service payroll as a whole and is inhibiting pay reform.

 LESSONS   FOR USING BUDGET      SUPPORT IN A S W A P FOR EDUCATION

 6.8     The combination of budget support and investment lending can be an effective
form of Bank support to Educationfor All in countries with commitment to goodpolicies
 but weak capacity to implement them. The PETDP and the ESAC were mutually
 supportive. The ESAC has been rightly acclaimed for its role in improving sector
 planning and budgeting functions, while the role of the PETDP (in conjunction with
 USAID) in piloting and developing systems for implementation has tended to be
 understated. Rapid expansion of inputs, financed though ESAC, depended on
 development over time through PETDP of systems for teacher development, textbook
 procurement, classroom construction, and some capacity to further develop and manage
 these systems. It has notyet been demonstrated in Uganda that capacity- and institution-
 building needs in the sector can be suficiently addressed through budget support alone.

 6.9     Givenstrong ministry leadership,a SWAP can be quickly established,with benejts
for the coherence of sector strategy, the qualityand national ownershipof sectorpolicies,
and transparencyof sectorplanning and budgetprocesses, but itpresents new issuesfor aid
 management.Despiteharmonizationof many donor requirementsin the Ugandan education
 sector,the demandsof the SWAp reporting and consultativeprocesses have overstretched
ministry capacity.The focus of dialogue on policies and budgets has tended to sideline
implementationissues,and to marginalizenongovernmentalorganizations-which have
become the main sourceof piloting and innovationin the sector.Monitoringhas been
focused on regulationsand procedures rather than results,while the demand for evaluation
comes largely from fundingagencies.And the high stakesin maintainingconsensus can be a
positive incentive to compromisebut can also encourage glossingover issuesthat should be
addressed.

6.10    Maintaining donor andpublic conjdence depends on special measuresfor
fiduciary assurance which can be dfflcult to sustain. Channeling external funds to the
sector through budget support adds to the onus on weak accountability systems. Uganda
has been making strenuous efforts to strengthen these but the results are still insufficient:
cynicism concerning management of public expenditure at all levels continues to be
widespread; the national auditing body is competent but constrained by the unreliability
of basic data. In the absence of adequate accounting, monitoring, and reporting systems at
the district level, innovative techniques were pioneered in Uganda to improve
accountability at the local level. These measures had a positive impact, but it is proving
difficult to sustain the necessary level of effort. The elimination of school fees had the
unintended effect of weakening the role of PTAs and reducing the interest of parents in
monitoring school finance.

                                               29


References

Ablo, E. and R. Reinikka, 1998, "Do Budgets Really Matter? Evidence from Public Spending on
        Education and Health in Uganda, The World Bank, Policy Research Working Paper No.
        1926.

AUCC Consortium, 2003, "Joint Evaluation of External Support to Basic Education in
        Developing Countries," Country Study Report, Uganda.

Hauge, A,, 2001, "Strengthening Capacity for Monitoring and Evaluation in Uganda: A Results
        Based Management Perspective," OED Working Paper 8, World Bank.

Hauge, A. 2002, "Effective implementation of Uganda's Poverty Eradication Action Plan: The
        role of monitoring and evaluation in the health, education and water sectors," for DffD.

Hicks, R.B.,2002, Report on the Outcome of the Baseline Study for Non-Textbook Materials, for
        DflD.

Ministry of Education and Sports (MOES), 1992, "Education for National Integration and
        Development," Government White Paper.

MOES, 1998, "Education Strategic Investment Plan 1998-2003."

MOES, "Education Sector Reviews," six-monthly, from April 1999.

MOES, 2000, "Uganda: EFA [Education for All] 2000 Assessment, Country Report."

MOES, 2001, "Study to Track Use of and Accountability of UPE Capitation Grants."

Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development, 1998, "Poverty Eradication Action
        Plan."

Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development, 2002 and 2003, "Background to the
        Budget," 200112002and 2002l2003.

Musisi, N. B., D. Kasente and A. M. Balihuta, 2003, "Attendance Patterns and Dropout in
        Primary Schools in Uganda," for the MOES.

Reinikka, R. and P.Collier eds., 2001, "Uganda's Recovery: The Role of Farms, Firms, and
        Government," World Bank.

Uganda National Examinations Board, 1999, "National Assessment of Progress in Education:
        Report on the Results of Mathematics and English Assessments in 1999."

World Bank, 2001, "Uganda: Policy, Participation, People," OED Country Assistance Evaluation.

World Bank, 2002, "The Republic of Uganda Public Expenditure Review, Report on the Progress
       and Challenges of Budget Reforms," Africa Region.


                                            31                                      Annex A


 Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

 PRIMARYEDUCATIONANDTEACHERDEVELOPMENTPROJECT(CREDIT                         2493)

 Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)
                                         Appraisal          Actual or        Actual as % of
                                          estimate       current estimate  appraisal estimate
 Total project costs                      104.10              1015 0                98
 Loan amount                               52.60
 Cancellation                                                   0.51



 Project Dates
I____-~_-.-_-                                                        --       Actual
 Board approval                                  or-I                       13-05-1993
                               ~    "



 Signing                                                                   22-06-1993
 Effectiveness                                   09/20/93                   10-11-1993




                                                  ActualILatest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
 IdentificationlPreparation                    95.2                         221.90
Appraisal/ Negotiations                        64.7                         169.60
Supervision                                 218.51                          534.60
Total                                       378.41                          926.10

                                                      32                                          Annex A


 Mission Data
                         Date     No. of       Specializationsrepresented               Performance rating
                     (month/yeatj persons                                           Implementation Development
                                                                                      progress      objective
Identification/      0710811991      8   1 Senior Educational SDecialist. 1
Preparation                              Architect, 1 General Educator, 1
                                         Economist, 1Teacher Training Specialist,
                                         1 Curriculum & Textbook Specialist, 1
                                         Examination Specialist,
                                         1 Human Resource Economist
AppraisalINegotiation 1111991        6   1 Senior Education Specialist, 1
                                         Architect., 1General Education, 1
                                         Economist, 1Teacher Training Specialist,
                                         1 Curriculum & Textbook Specialist
Supervision
                     0211994         4   3 Education Specialist (of which 1Task                          HS
                                         Manager), 1 Implementation Specialist             S
                     0911994         1   1 Implementation Specialist                                     HS
                      1011995        4   1 Implementation Specialist, 1 Social             S              S
                                         Sector Specialist, 1 Economist, 1                 S
                                         Consultant
                     0311996         5   1 Textbook Specialist, 1 Implementation                          S
                                         Specialist, 1 Social Sector Specialist, 1         S
                                         Senior Advisor, 1 Economist
1011996               1011996        7   1 Senior Economist, 1 USAID Consultant,           U
                                         1 ODA Consultant, 1 Social Sector                                S
                                         Specialist, 1 Finance Consultant, 1
                                         Netherlands Consultant, 1 Economist
                     05/1997         4   1 Economist, 1 Decentralization                   U              U
                                         Specialist, 1 Education Specialist, 1
                                         Finance Management Specialist
                      1111997        7   3 EducationSpecialists, 1 Operations              U              U
                                         Officer, 1 Procurement Specialist, 2
                                         Architects
                     0711998         5   1 Economist, 1 Program Officer, 1
                                         Architect Consultant, 1 FinancialAnalyst,         S
                                         1 Engineer
                      1111998        7   1 Economist, 2 Education Specialists, 1           U
                                         Operations Officer, 1 Procurement                                S
                                         Specialist, 1 Civil Engineer, 1Architect
                     0411999         8   1 Economist, 1 Macroeconomic Specialist,
                                         1 Program Officer, 1 Finance                      S              S
                                         ManagementSpecialist, 2 Construction
                                         Specialists, 1 Disbursement Specialist, 1
                                         Education Specialist
                     0411999         1   1 Operations Officer
                      1011999                                                                             S
                                     4   1 Operations Officer, 1 Senior Education          S
                                         Specialist, 1 Education Consultant, 1             S              S
                                         Economist
                     0412000         2   1 Senior Education Specialist, 1                  S
                                         Operations Officer
                     1012000         2   1Senior Education Specialist, 1                   S
                                         Operations Officer
                     0312001         8   1 Operations Officer, 1 Teacher                  HS
                                         Development Specialist, 1 Exams &
                                         Assessment Specialist, 1 Curriculum
                                         Specialist, 1 Policy and Planning
                                         Specialist, 1 Instructional Materials
                                         Specialist, 1Architect Specialist, 1 Senior

                                                     33


EDUCATION         SECTOR ADJUSTMENT          OPERATION (CREDIT NO. 3049)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                                 Appraisal             Actual or          Actual as % of
                                                  estimate          current estimate    appraisal estimate
Total project costs (US$ M)
Loan amount                                          155                  155                   100
Cancellation                                         0.00
                                                      80                 0.00




-
Board approval
Signing                                                                                   03/24/98
                                                                                          04/15198




                                                           ActuaVLatest Estimate
                                               No. Staff weeks                         US$ (`000)
Identification/PreDaration
Appraisal/ Negotiations                         58.6                                   214.5
SuDervision                                     65.7
                                                5.8                                    190.7
                                                                                        21.9



Mission Data
                            Date      No. of   Specializations represented          Performance rating
                        (month/year) persons                                   Implementation Development
                                                                                  progress       objective
Identification/
Preparation             07/1997         4    Operations Ofiicer, I social
                                             1 Education SDecialist(TM). 1

                                             Ojoo, Financial Management
                                             Development Specialist, 1 (Abel

AppraisaVNegotiation 11/1997                 2 Education Specialists (of
                                             Specialist)

                        (Appraisal)          which 1 TM), 1 Economist, 1
                                             Operations Officer, 1((Abel
                                             Ojoo, Financial Management
                                             Specialist)

                        02/1998
                        (Negotiation)        1 Education Specialist (TM)
Supervision             11/1998             21 Education Specialist (of which                       HS

                                             Operations Officer
                                                TM), 1 Economist, 1
                        0411999                                                                     HS

                                            2Research Specialists (of
                                             11 Operations Officer, 1
                                                Education (TM), 1 Economist,

                        1011999                        Analyst
                                            which 1 TTL), 1 Economist, 1
                                                Education                                           HS


                                            Analyst
                                            Research Analyst, 1 Budget
                        04/2000             Economist, 1 Operations Officer
                                            1 Education Specialist (TTL), 1           S             HS

                        10/2000             Operations Officer
                                             1 Education Specialist (TTL), 1         S               S
ICR                     12/2000              1 Education Specialist, 1               S              HS
                                            Economist, 1 Operations Officer


                                                35                                              Annex B

Annex B. Comments from the Borrower



Telegram:        "EDUCATION"                                  Ministry of Educatlonand Sports
Telephone        23445114                                     Embassy House
                                                              P.O.Box7063
                                                              Kampala,Uganda
In any correspondenceon
This subject please quoteNo. EPD/141/298/09
                                     THBR%BLK OFUOANDA


8`Januar)l2GQ4


AlainBarbu
Managerand Thematic EvaluationGroup
Operations EvaluationDepartment
WorldBank
1818HStreetN.W.
Washington,D.C, 20433
USA

SUBJECT`:        REPORT ON THE UGANDA PRIMARYEDUCATION AND TEACHER
                 COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT
                 DEVELOPMENT PROJECr (CREDIT 2493) AND EDUCATION
                 SECTORADJUSTMENT CREDIT(CREDIT3049)
Reference is made to the above captionedsubject.

The report generally represents a good assessment of the performance of the Uganda PEDTP
(&dit 2493) and the EducationSectorAdjustment Credit (&dit 3049). Nonetheless,we have the
followingcomments:

Under Section2.5
It is true that substantia capacityhad been built inthe Project ImplementationUnit. ?he Ministry
has alreadyfinalised the operationalisationof the Construction ManagementSupport Unit (CMSU)
integrated into the Ministry mainstream and all key posts advertised. Recurrent costs of running
and Instructional Materials Unit OMU)to replace the PIU. CMSU and IMUhave already been
these units have been provided for in the MIBF. To increase the capacityof districts,Engineering
Assistants have been recruited and deployed in all the districts. The most recently concluded SFG
Value for Money Audit indicates that these officers have significantlyhelped to improve the q d t y
of construction.Government agrees theseEngineeringAssistantsbe kept in post.
Regarding the issue of time consuming bureaucratic process and lack of funding and failure to
punish errant district officers as affecting the supervision of the project, the following are our
comments:

     1. It's not true that there is lack of fundingto the program Funds under the SchoolFacilities
         Programmeprovide for Shs. 4oO,OOO/ = per site for monitoring at the districtlevel. Ministry
         of Education and Sports aIso provides for PAF monitoring funds and inland travel for
         facilitation of the Unit while undertadng monitoring of classroom construction and other

    2. With regard to failure to punish errantdistrictofficers,
         PAF programmes. Allthese fundshave been accessibleto the Unit.
         been developed.The necessaryGovernment organs are

                                                    36                                                                     Annex B




UnderSection2.9, bulletdvee
The policies of double shifting and multi-grade teaching are being implemented on a pilot basis.
Double shifting is being implemented in the following areas: Rakai, &aka,
Kiboga and Mbale Municipalitywhile multi-grade t e a c h is being implemented in Kalangala and                   Luwero, Hoima,

SembabuleDistricts.

UnderSection 3.2.7
The Muistry's EMIS supported by PETDP and ESAC, is f d y operational after the closure of
projects and is used for the ministry's annual statisticalreports especiallythe quality enhancement
indicators although the outcome indicators are not currently available in EMIS. Quality of data
impact on the quality of EMIS data have been identified. These gaps have been documented in the
remains the major challenge for EMIS. It should however, be noted that credibility gaps which
Aide Memoire of the Eighth Education Sector Review of October 2002 (Para 46 and Annex 10
refer). Further the World Bank commissioned mission on EMIS also identified credibilitygaps. In
both cases recommendations were made and the status of implementation to improve quality is
tabulated below:
                                                               m Of the October2002 ESR l h e x 10)on Improvirg

        credibility Gaps                     Proposedrecommendations
                  cluityof q&srionrulcs          Discuss queniOnnainwirhend users          Status of implementation
                                                                                              Q.mtionnaire workhop held wirh
            ~
            e
            e
            ...  rna+ju& timing of the                                                        variousst&holden. Simpk insrrumenrr
                  e-e                            aviry jld a p e on concepts in
                                                  guc;t;Onna;e                                used in census2003.
            e     Lackof properrecords
                  Lackof sundad registen         Separate census p e d for primary
                                                  and seconduys& secton                       O N U S
                  Wronge&                                                                     secondvyperidssectom were separated
                                                                                                                    for prLayy and
                                                 schoolcensus
                                                  Intensifyvliniag dsensitiurion on           during the census 2003
                                                                                                            s u b

                  Misundentlnding         of     Insrirute standud Rgirren for all            lhiswas done duringw     u s 2003
                  conccpts/defhiIions/and
                  inrupretatbn                    schools so as to improve somes of
                                                  data
            e     M o d bsw (falsificationof      Tnining      and    syirLuion         to
                                                  c m p b l e                                 Sundad regiten have been p d w e d
                                                                 the   IU~YRUIW         of    for,uein 2004 academic;year
            *     data)
                  Lackof interest                staurtics.
            e     Wrong attitudeleadingto        thc tninLig of head teachen Wirh
                                                  Offken from MoES should condm               TnicMS done duringcensus2003

                  1)   Not
                       teachenmining    head      dirvtr o f f d .
                                                  disrricr o f f i instead of Laving ir to
                                                                                              census 2003
                                                                                              MOBS trained thedictrict offici& duing
                       ulsuuments   on   the
                  2)   N o t , ve+ying           AUocate more rime IO rnining so that
                       queswnnures from  the     rhe concepts ue very clear to the
                                                  head teachen.                               ?hir was doneduringcensus2003
                                                                                              Stem wuning ernplusled during the
                  3)   schools
                       Not                       Inrtinae pudve measures for all              census 2003 trainingmrhshop
            .          qIk?.stiormurrs before
                                ed%      the      head teachen who falsifytheir data.

                  Mirundcnunding
                       subminingto MoES.of
                  concepts/defAtions/d
                  concepts.
            e     Inadequate fun& for the
                  exercise
            e     Tmconsaainr                  e Auwtemore tirrrforthe=&e                     This was done duriag census 2003
            e     Inadequate     mining   to   e                                              This was done during       CCNUS
                  dLuicts                         Allocate more time for mining
                                                  Discuss questionnaire widr head             eWCise                             2033

            e                                                                                 ?hL
                  school at thedesign stage
                  Lack of consuitation with       teachen/ Yrtipate in the tnining of      e         MS
                                                  head teacgen.                               wohhops        done during census 2003
                  Lack of feed back to                                                        Qcstionnak workhop was kld with
                  schools                         Cons& head teachen at the &sign
                                                  stage.                                      wious stakeholders.
                                               e  Allocate more funds fortheexercise.
                                                  Regular feed back to school.                FO d wereclaim pr.not enough. %re   ue
                                                                                                i J m d u l g
                                                                                            w School repom for 2002 wre given to
                                                                                              schools during census 2003 cxcrcisc

                                                  37                                                                       Annex B




CredibilityGaps                         Proposedtecommendations
*                                                                                   S t a t u of implementation
   Ldr of mcluniDm for uplatirig               Provide I e d Y uudam of
                                                                                        circulated to JI LGs during chc census
                                                                                         T e r m l y u p d u e N n r m r y s h m m
   data h e ncensusu rmking&Ia                                                       rn


   OUI
   Lackof of feedback on dau at dl
           rouch arirhrc*.                     ocwlcllfes in.the'Kcror     ic. mw
                                               schoolr
                                               identifration shouldhave rrponcd so
                                                          rhu              Chgd
                                                                    be                  2003 vliningworkshops.
   levels for putpie of verification.
*                                              tlycdaucan be updated
   Mirinwpretarion of concep and          ,                                         D
   dadinformar$n.                              Lke suppkmauyi n f o d n from
                                               other so-     IO       our estimates     World Bank, MOPS,and MoFPED.
                                                                                         Used informaxion from uBC6, UbTB
   Negativeides                           .    mrcpRupe.        a&
                                               Gmpuc with earlierdam                      ?hLwdone
                                               Gmpve with other dausomes e.g.
                                               MOPS,UNEB andU B e .
                                               Trainingonconcep/def&ns/and                Thiswasdone

                                               hteQfCUIbll.                          *
                                               Encoungc positive amide to&              worhhop held wkh Wiour stakieholden
                                                                                          This w done during the queswMlire
                                               data.
                                               Wde circulation of provisional data
                                               forcomments.                              2003data sew
                                                                                          This was done with regard to census
                                               Provide feedback and adcquau
                                               fachtion on schoolc c m .
                                                                                         available
                                                                                          Provkiod data sets for cemus 2003

                                          .    Imrirurc punidve measluRs onwrong
                                               ulchur who         provide     Head       censu 2003 miring workshops
                                                                                          Stun warning emphasized during the

                                               i n f O d h
                                               Data should be accompanied by             census 2003 exercie
                                                                                          Summary sheers were used during
                                               summuysheeu.
                                          0    Distri~~s designate desk officer in
                                               h    e ofIO
                                                         EducasonStatistics.

    ort On J&atw&&m
                     Onw              Of The &mmw&&m Of The Wodd B-

Credibilitygaps                      Proposedrecommendations                             Status of implementation
                                       Improving records keeping at school
than the expectedlevelsLe.
GER and NER higher                     level                                              'for
                                                                                             Standard registers produced
                                                                                                  use in 2004 academicyear
above 100%                             Conducta samplesurvey                                 Net       Enrolment            Survey
                                                                                             arrangements are            in final
                                                                                             stages
Over estimation of the               I                                                    m  Population figures for 2003
population figures used to             Use updatedcmnt populationf w s                       census surveyare beingused.
comute sector indicators
in ~ s t r a c t s2001 &2002
Data collectionsystem                  Simplifiedclarifiedquestionnaires                  .  QuestionnaL.e workshop held



Over         estimation        of    .                                                       Simple instruments used in
                                                                                              with various staleholden.
                                                                                              census 2003.
                                                                                                       Enrolment            S w e y
enrolment due to foreign               that foreign pupils can be added to the
                                       Conduct a surveyon boarder districts so ' Net          arrangements are in fd
pupils attending schools in
Uganda                                 district population before computing                   stages.
                                       districtlevel indicators                               A question on Nationality of

Un        matched          supply    . Conductschoolmappingexercise                       .   pupils     included      in      2003
                                                                                              questionnaires.
                                                                                              Arrangements in progress to
(existing infrastructure) to                                                                  conduct the exercise early
demand             Le.      local                                                             2004
 opulation pressure.
&on-repo&g                schools.   . Check on the existence of the non-                     A list of non-reporting schools
Eshting             enrohnts           reponingschools                                        have     been      forwarded to
may be a source of over                                                                       respective departments for
reporting                                                                                     action
Need to prioritize proper Improve monitoringsystem                                        M&E                                   out
planning of school system                                                                 monitoring                   evaluation
so that education sector                                                                  exerciseon a quarrerlybasis
                                                                                                     sectionand canies
can tnaximh. its efforts
 human capital formation
 d   e minimizing costs

                                                38                                    Annex B




   8   Needtotrainstaff
   9   Simplifiitionof interfaces Furrhersimplifiiationof interfaces
                                  Trainstaff inplanningand monitoring.  Not done Ft




1sF.X.K. Lubanga
  PERMANENT SECRETARY


  C.C.   Mr. Lo& A Kasekende,ExecutiveDirector for Uganda,World Bank

  C.C.   Prof.Kidhu-Makubuya,Ministerof Educationand Sports
  C.C.   Mr. ChrisM Kassami,PermanentSecretaryhecretaryto the Treasury
         Minisuyof Finance,Planningand EconomicDevelopment

  C.C.   Mr,SamOnek, Commissioner,Pre-Primaryand PrimaryEducation,Ministryof Education
         and Sports



