                                                                                                         92748
                                                                                                         April 20, 2007

                                                                   Links:
                                                                   - What is IDA?
                                                                   - Our Work in Uganda


                                                                   More on Uganda:
                                                                   - Borrowing History
                                                                   - Data & Statistics
                                                                   - Research
                                                                   - Contact Us




As part of a policy aimed at providing universal access to primary education, the government of
Uganda in 1997 eliminated primary school fees. The result was almost doubling of enrollments
which schools were unprepared to accommodate and that put the school system on the verge of
collapse under tremendous pressure.




IDA provided emergency funds to finance the education sector budget and to respond to the
surge of enrollments. But, more importantly, this Education Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC)
provided the framework for a harmonized and coordinated donor support to the sector. Together
with the governments of the UK, Denmark, Netherlands, Ireland, and the US, as well as the EU,
IDA prepared and supported an education sector investment operation, with the long-term aim of
enabling the government of Uganda to use resources efficiently, protect the quality of teaching
and learning, and strengthen management of the sector. Uganda was the first country in Africa
to have a coordinated and harmonized donor support to the education sector.




Primary enrollment was not only sustained, but has continued to grow. Uganda's own
universal primary education policy resulted in an increase in primary school enrolment
from 3.1 million in 1996 to 7.3 million in 2006 and removed wealth and gender gaps among
primary pupils. Resources are now being used efficiently to manage the school system.


Highlights:
- The level of resources available for the government's universal primary education program
increased, including the government's increased share for recurrent expenditures and parents'
voluntary contributions. The government is providing over 30 percent of the discretionary
recurrent budget to education; of this 65 percent is for primary education.
- Flexible external funding enabled coverage of all priorities, including those of a recurrent nature.
Share of recurrent expenditure on primary education exceeded 20 percent on average during the
project.
- Accountability and transparency improved. By announcing education transfers in
newspapers and on the radio, the government informed parent associations of the amount of
money their schools should be receiving. The government’s campaign for better tracking and
transparency helped reduce leakage: resources reaching schools increased from 13 percent in
1996 to 80 percent in 2000.
- More efficient decentralized methods for classroom construction were successfully introduced.
Payroll management was substantially improved (“ghost teachers,” previously 20 percent of the
wage bill, were removed) and salaries are now paid on time.
- Uganda has shown progressive improvements in quality: for example, the percentage of pupils
achieving defined levels of competency in literacy in the third primary level had increased to 46
percent in 2006 from 19 percent in 1996.




- IDA provided US$155 million, of which US$75 million was a grant in the context of the Heavily
Indebted Poor Countries Initiative.
- IDA helped the government establish a framework for coordinated donor support for universal
access to primary education, the basis for scaling up support to the sector through the budget.
- IDA played a key role in helping the Ministry of Education and Sports build its partnership with
other donor agencies through its technical support, including provision of day-to-day support and
quality technical inputs.
- The IDA team helped Uganda establish an annual education sector review process which
involves all stakeholders (district officials, members of parliament, NGOs and academia) to
review progress, challenges and charting a way forward for the sector. IDA pioneered the use of
Public Expenditure Tracking Surveys (PETS) in Uganda to detect leakage in budget allocations.




The UK, Denmark, EU, Ireland, the US, Netherland, Germany and UNICEF.




Once the project was completed in 2000, IDA support continued through an overall poverty
reduction support credit. This kind of ongoing financing is possible when an institutional platform,
firmly established in the country's own systems, is in place to absorb and efficiently use external
budget support. In the case of Uganda, and other IDA beneficiaries, all donor assistance for
education is harmonized through this agreed-to platform. The institutional structure also provides
a platform–that includes civil society–for continuous policy dialogue–particularly to improve
learning quality and retention. Efforts to improve quality are beginning to pay-off.




Education Sector Adjustment Credit (1998 - 2000)
Project documents
