Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFTICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11287
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
SABAH FORESTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2550-MA)
OCTOBER 23, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(M$ per US$)
Year                      Exchange Rate
1985 (appraisal)                  2.50
1986                              2.60
1987                              2.49
1988                              2.71
1989                              2.70
1990                              2.70
1991 (completion)                 2.70
WEIGHTS & MEASURES
Metric System
Abbreviations
DOD     -    Department of Development (Sabah State)
FD      -    Forest Department (Sabah State)
FRC     -    Forest Research Center (Sabah State)
FRIM    -    Forest Research Institute Malaysia
PCR     -    Project Completion Report
PPMU    -    Project Preparation and Monitoring Unit
PDG     -    Project Development Group
PMT     -    Project Management Team
SAFODA  -    Sabah Forestry Development Authority
SAR     -    Staff Appraisal Report
SF      -    Sabah Foundation
SFI     -    Sabah Forest Industries (SDN. BHD.)
SSSB    -    Sabah Softwoods (SDN. BHD.)
UPM     -    Agricultural University of Malaysia
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFICIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operctions Evaluction
October 23, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Malaysia
Sabah Forestry Technical Assistance Project
(Loan 2550-MA)
Attached, for your information, is a copy of a report
entitled "Project Completion Report on Malaysia - Sabah Forestry
Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2550-MA)", prepared by the East
Asia & Pacific Regional Office. No audit of this project has been
made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
SABAH FORESTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Loan 2550-MA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .i...  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . .
Evaluation Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .iii
PART I:    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . . . . . .                   1
Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Project Design and Organization    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Project Results    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Bank Performance   ..........                    ....      ....      ....      .    17
Borrower Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Project Relationship   ........                 ...  ..     ...     ..   ..   .    19
Consulting Services    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
Project Documentation and Data  .....  .               .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    20
PART II:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . . . .   21
Introduction   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
Design and Implementation Experience   . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
Project Impact   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
Findings and Lessons Learned   .....  ..  .               .  ..  .  ..  .  .    .    23
Bank's Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
Borrower's Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
Project Relationship   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   26
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
Table 1:  PRELATED LOANS    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
Table 2:  PROJECT TIMETABLE    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
Table 3:  CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28
Table 4:  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
Ta-le 5:  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
A. Project Costs.. .............  30
B.  Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
Table 6:  PROJECT RESULTS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
A.  Direct Benefits at Full Development  . . . . . . . . . .  31
B.  Economic and Financial Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
C. Studies. . .    ......  32
Table 7:  STATUS OF COVENANTS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  33
Table 8:  USE OF BANK RESOURCES   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
A.  Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
B. Missions. .  .    ......  34
Map  IBRD 18946



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
SABAH FORESTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Loan 2550-MA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Sabah Forestry
Technical Assistance Project in Malaysia, for which Loan 2550-MA in the amount
of US$6.5 million equivalent was approved on May 21, 1985. The Loan was closed
on December 31, 1991, two years behind schedule.  The undisbursed balance of
US$194,411.22 equivalent remaining after the last disbursement on March 16, 1992,
was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Agriculture Operations Division
of the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts
I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).  Preparation of this PCR was started
during the Bank's final supervision mission of the project in March 1992, and is
based, inter alia, on the President's Report (P-3923-MA) dated May 2,1985'1, the
Loan Agreement dated January 17, 1986, the Bank's supervision reports and
internal memoranda, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, field
visits to project sites, reports prepared by participating agencies of the
Borrower, discussions with the Borrower's project staff and interviews with World
Bank Staff associated with the project.
The East Asia and Pacific Regional Office wishes to express its
appreciation to the officials of the Borrower for their valuable assistance in
preparing the PCR.
1/   No Staff Appraisal Report was prepared nor rate of return calculated
because of the technical assistance nature of the Project.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
SABAH FORESTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Loan 2550-MA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.        The main objective of the project was to test the feasibility of
forest plantation development on degraded ex-forestry land in the Bengkoka area
of northern Sabah State, Malaysia. The results of the Project were to be used
to determine the size, composition, and location of investments to be made under
subsequent phases of Sabah's reforestation program.
2.        The project was to establish a 3,000 ha trial plantation of state
forest at Bengkoka using fast-growing tree species which were exogenous to Sabah.
Another 500 ha of the same species would be established as cash crops on private
farms, mostly as small woodlots near the pulp mill at Sipitang in south Sabah.
The project would also support a new 500 ha research plantation of the Forest
Department to provide necessary information on adapting these species to local
circumstances. In addition, consultancy services were to be provided to assist
project management and to carry out related studies. A project office was to be
established to coordinate the project activities of the various agencies and
training was to be given to local staff involved with forestry project
implementation, planning and policy analysis.
3.        The project was chosen as an alternative to one of immediate large-
scale plantation investment as the productive base of a settlement scheme (para.
2.2).
Implementation Experience
4.        Project implementation took almost seven years from approval in May
1985 to Loan closing on December 31,1991, instead of the planned five years from
1985 to 1989.  Loan signing was delayed eight months and effectiveness took
another four months. Two closing date extensions were made to allow completion
of research and two consultant studies. The major components were completed on
schedule.
5.        Establishment of the trial plantation went better than expected, with
some 7,000 ha being planted by project completion instead of the expected 3,000
ha (para. 6.1).  The implementing agency, SAFODA (Sabah Forestry Development
Authority), formed a close working relationship with the expatriate project
management consultants. The combined Project Management Team (PHT) approach was



- iv -
successful in transferring technical and managerial skills to SAFODA staff who
were able to continue the program satisfactorily after completion of the
consultants' involvement, though questions remain as to long-run sustainability
(para. 6.7).
6.        The smallholder tree farming program fared better than anticipated.
By project completion, 1,400 ha of woodlots averaging 2 ha in size were planted,
compared with 500 ha anticipated.   The implementing agency,  Sabah Forest
Industries S.B. (SFI), established a smallholder extension service based on
experience with their own nearby industrial-sized plantation and entered into a
purchasing agreement with the growers. Farmers were quick to respond and the
component was soon oversubscribed.
7.        The research program proved difficult to implement, largely because
of design shortcomings.   The Forest Research Center  (FRC)  of the Forest
Department (FD) was undergoing some basic restructuring as young local staff had
largely replaced experienced expatriates. The project proposed a heavy program
of research at a time when the FRC resources were stretched by ongoing research
and by the training needs of fresh graduates.   The large number of proposed
research activities was cut, and many of those remaining were implemented as
collaborative research with other agencies involved in forestry in Sabah.
8.        Of the eight studies to be done under the Project, two were completed
as envisaged, one was completed as a workshop, three were completed but funded
outside the project, and two were considered redundant because of other work
already under way. Both studies financed by the project involved implementation
problems. In both cases, the consultants were not familiar with the forestry
sector in Sabah and early study drafts were not sufficiently specific for project
purposes (para. 5.17).
9.        Study tours were undertaken to observe smallholder treefarming in the
Philippines; to review the large-scale plantation programs in Indonesia; and to
study plantation development and wood utilization in New Zealand.   Three
fellowships for training abroad were approved in advanced tree breeding,
application of computer modelling to forest management and local courses and
workshops were supported.
10.       A Project Preparation and Monitoring Unit  (PPMU) was established
within the DOD. The PPMU monitored and reported the overall progress of the
project, implemented the studies component, analyzed project performance data and
functioned as a technical secretariat to the steering committee for the project,
the Project Development Group (PDG). At completion, the project cost of about
US$13.3 million was close to the appraisal estimate of US$13.1 million. Of the
Bank loan of US$6.5 million, US$6.3 million was used and US$0.194 million was
cancelled.
Results
11.       The project was successful in achieving its objectives of testing the
technical, institutional and financial feasibility of forest plantation
development at Bengkoka and providing the basis for the next phase of Sabah's



- v -
reforestation program. The implementation capacity of the project team within
SAFODA increased from an annual average of 200 ha of poor stands to 2,000 ha of
very good stands over the project period. Detailed information on establishment
and maintenance costs was recorded, as well as on tree growth rates, pests and
diseases, and silvicultural regimes. Applied research into soil conditions and
the tree growth response of various seed source material was carried out.
Systems for fire control and forest mensuration were developed. The project's
implementing agency provided jobs, housing, schools, roads and other benefits for
the local communities, among the poorest in Malaysia. Because the trees are not
yet ready for harvest, little information on marketing has been obtained beyond
an inconclusive shipment of pulpwood from plantation trees established before the
project began.
12.       The smallholder tree planting program established the validity of this
approach in providing low cost wood as a supplement to that from commercial-scale
plantations. Farmers were keen to diversify into trees with low labor inputs.
The legume tree species is recognized as both improving soil conditions and in
weed control.
13.       The research plantation was established, together with associated
laboratory facilities, and a series of long-term experiments with plantation and
native species was begun.   The study into the feasibility of a large-scale
smallholder program provided the necessary basis for expansion while the study
of incentives for private sector participation in reforestation raised many
important issues. The visits to the Philippine smallholder tree growing site
(PICOP) and to the Indonesian plantations were important in demonstrating what
can be done with adequate commitment to the goals. A major result of the project
was the marked inter-agency involvement in assessing plantation development
issues and prospects.
14.       While the project succeeded in providing a suitable basis for further
plantation forestry development, various factors have delayed implementation of
a follow-on project. It had been expected that by the early 1990's, a planting
program of some 20,000 ha per annum would be reached in order to achieve the
State's industrial plantation goal of a sustained 250,000 ha throughout Sabah.
At Loan closing, however, the prospects were for a Statewide program of only
around 2,000-4,000 ha per year, mainly because of the lack of a clear sector
development strategy.
Sustainability
15.       The project is sustainable inasmuch as the concerned institutions are
able to maintain and expand the investments made (para. 7.1). SAFODA intends to
expand the pilot plantation into an industrial-sized concern, if financing is
available, and SFI is continuing with the smallholder program using its own
funds.



- vi -
Findings and Lessons Learned
16.       The project demonstrated the technology and management needed to
reforest problem sites through use of fast-growing legume trees managed as
commercial plantations, or as a means of capturing the site to re-establish
native dipterocarp species.   The results are applicable to large areas of
Southeast Asia covered by lalang grass (Imperata cylindrica).
17.       The project demonstrated the suitability of various locations in Sabah
for production of large volumes of industrial cellulose required to substitute
for valuable forest species in manufacturing of paper, particle board and other
reconstituted wood products.
18.       The  project  demonstrated  the  suitability  of  these  trees  as  a
smallholder crop where an assured market and a nucleus estate is nearby. The
smallholder wood proved cheaper to grow than that from plantations.
19.       The project demonstrated the high returns to applied research. Major
differences in tree growth rates and tree form resulted from interaction between
sites and seed sources.
20.       The experience during implementation justified the decision to proceed
with the pilot scheme at Bengkoka as an alternative to a large-scale settlement
project based on one largely unknown tree species. Tree growth rates proved less
than expected because of soil and climate conditions and not enough was known on
site-provenance interaction. Even on a pilot scale, institutional capacity was
strained for several years. Land tenure disputes between SAFODA and indigenous
people remain unresolved.
21.       The data recorded by the project underscored the marginal financial
viability of stand-alone plantation forestry unless it is integrated with a
manufacturing facility, or other revenue raising activity. While shadow-pricing
the value of the wood to include social and environmental benefits would more
correctly reflect its true value to Sabah's economy, the increment over market
prices is not captured by the planter.  Accordingly, there is little private
sector interest.
22.       Project  coordination proved  difficult because  of  the  number  of
entities involved. The PDG was only partly successful in resolving the problem
as it had little influence over the policies and programs of the participating
agencies. The PPMU was not provided with adequate technical expertise needed for
project monitoring as provided in the President's Report.  Projects should be
kept as simple as possible with the minimum number of entities.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
SABAH FORESTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Loan 2550-MA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity
Name:        Sabah Forestry Technical Assistance Project
Loan No.:    2550-MA
RVP Unit:    East Asia and Pacific
Country:     Malaysia
Sector:      Agriculture
Subsector:   Forestry
2.   Background
2.1       Faced with rapid but uneven regional growth in the 1970's, the Sabah
State Government undertook to create employment and foster economic development
in lagging districts. The Pitas District in northern Sabah, in the area of the
Bengkoka Peninsula, contained communities estimated to be among the poorest in
Malaysia. The 3,000-4,000 families depended on shifting cultivation, fishing,
hunting and occasional casual labor. Shifting cultivation had long ago degraded
the former forest land, leaving it with a dense coverage of lalang grass
effectively preventing forest regrowth.
2.2       In 1981, the Sabah Forestry Development Authority (SAFODA) began to
establish a plantation at Bongkol, north of the town of Pitas (Map IBRD No.
18946), as part of its Bengkoka Afforestation and Settlement Project.   The
project came to the attention of the Bank during a Bank-funded consultant review
of development possibilities in the area. A Bank identification and preparation
mission concluded that plantation forestry, together with some agriculture and
related activities, would form a satisfactory basis for a settlement project.
In May 1983, the Bank appraised a project to support SAFODA's initiative and a
draft Staff Appraisal Report was prepared. The project would have established
36,000 ha of Acacia mangium trees, for sawlogs, over a period of six years and
would have settled 2,000 families in five settlements provided with housing,
infrastructure and services.
2.3       Concern was expressed within the Bank over the dependence of the
proposed project on Acacia manaium, a little-known species not used in commercial
plantations or traded on world markets. SAFODA had chosen mangium because of its
good growth on the poor soils of northern Sabah.  As a condition of further
processing of the project proposals, the Bank requested milling tests of the
species to establish its marketability. A sample of 168 logs of 11 years of age
were tested in a commercial timber mill by the Asia Pacific Forest Industries
Group of the FAO and the Forest Research Center (FRC) in October 1983.



-2
2.4       Test results indicated that products made from the samples would not
be saleable except as low grade utility timber or as a source of industrial
cellulose (pulpwood, particle board, etc.). In addition, the percentage timber
recovered from logs was unduly low and all logs showed heartrot which increased
with tree age (Milling Tests of Acacia manxium. FAO, 1983, Appendix 3). At the
likely log prices, the project would therefore not be viable.  However, the
report stated that the sample may not have been truly representative and that
many log defects might be amenable to improved tree breeding and silvicultural
practices. Under these circumstances, the Bank declined further support for the
project as appraised, but agreed instead to finance a much smaller pilot project
to test various assumptions.   At that time, the ongoing SAFODA settlement
component was halted, with 200 houses having been constructed.
3.        Proiect Objectives and Description
3.1       Proiect  Obiectives.   The  project  sought  to:    (a)  improve  the
marketability of mangium through better silviculture and tree selection; (b)
establish and improve the growth performance of the species under upgraded
plantation management; (c) determine cost of production; (d) test the
acceptability of smallholder treefarming; (e) improve research knowledge of this
and other plantation species; (f) strengthen SAPODA's institutional capacity; (g)
undertake detailed studies of markets, scope for expansion of treefarming,
incentives to encourage private sector investment in plantations, and other
topics; and (h) establish within the Sabah Government a capacity to prepare,
evaluate and monitor projects according to generally accepted practice.
3.2       Proiect Components.  The project components were:
(a) establishment of a 3,000 ha pilot plantation of Acacia mangium;
(b) development of 500 ha of smallholder woodlots of mangium;
(c) establishment of a 500 ha research plantation;
(d) provision of about 116 months of consultancy services for assistance
to plantation management and to carry out related technical and
marketing studies;
(e) provision of 12 months of fellowships, study tours and other training;
and
(f) establishment of a Project Preparation and Monitoring Unit.
4.        Prolect Design and Organization
4.1       It was expected that SAFODA would plant 3,000 ha of mangium over four
years using labor from the settlement and from nearby villages.  A Project
Management Team (PMT), initially consisting of consultants experienced in
plantation management plus SAFODA staff, would evolve into a SAFODA management
unit capable of implementation of large-scale programs. The PMT would determine
appropriate methods of tree establishment and maintenance, develop silvicultural



- 3 -
regimes to improve tree growth rates and form, set out procedures for fire
prevention and control, and record cost of production and technical data.
4.2       Sabah Forest Industries (SFI), a State-owned enterprise, undertook to
implement the smallholder program in the southern part of the State. Under the
program, smallholders would sign an agreement with SFI to grow mangium trees and
to sell them to SFI for use in its nearby pulp and paper mill. SFI would receive
project financing to establish seedlings in a nursery. The seedlings would be
delivered to participants upon signing of a marketing agreement. Costs would be
recovered at the time of sale, about eight years after planting. Advice on site
selection and tree growing would be given to growers without cost recovery.
4.3       The research plantation would be established by the Forest Research
Centre (FRC) of the Sabah Forest Department (FD) at Segaliud-Lokan in eastern
Sabah, the most important forestry area of the State. Logged-over forest would
be cleared, field offices, a laboratory and staff quarters would be constructed
and scientific  equipment provided.   The site would be planted with both
plantation and indigenous species under a series of long-term research trials to
support plantation development as well as re-establishment of indigenous species
in logged forest.
4.4       Studies considered complimentary to plantation development and to
rehabilitation of logged forest were to be carried out by international experts
covering the following topics: transport, marketing, processing, incentives,
site surveys, treefarming, natural forest management, and research. Training
through fellowships, study tours, courses and seminars would be supported both
in Malaysia and overseas to enable those involved in Sabah's forestry sector to
become aware of the advances in plantation development and related fields. Both
consultant studies and training were to be implemented by the Project Preparation
and Monitoring Unit (PPMU) to be established in the Sabah Department of
Development (DOD).
4.5       The DOD is within the Chief Minister's Department and plays a key role
in determining the State's development priorities, strategy and selection of
individual projects.   Because of the importance of forestry to the State's
economy, the PPMU to be set up under the project was to consist of a forester and
an economist, with support staff and equipment. The PPMU would coordinate and
monitor the project across the many components and participating agencies, and
would be responsible for project reporting, analyzing at project level the output
of the component data, and leading preparation of proposals for a follow-on
project.
5.        Proiect Implementation
5.1       Project start-up was late because of a 12 month delay between loan
approval in May 1985 and loan effectiveness in May 1986, following the required
signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Federal and State Governments.
The delay occurred because of the need to define arrangements between State and
Federal bodies and between agencies within Sabah itself. The large number of
institutions involved in this small project also led to complications in project
management that were never fully resolved. A steering committee, the Project



- 4 -
Development Group (PDG), was set up to coordinate the Sabah agencies at a level
above that of the PPMU. It provided an important forum for sharing experience
with implementation and increasing awareness of issues in plantation development.
The PDG's effectiveness, though, was overridden by the policies and practices of
the individual agencies over which it had little influence.
Pilot Plantation at Bengkoka
5.2       Despite the delay in the official project starting date, SAFODA began
implementation soon after Board approval. The Project Agreement between the Bank
and Sabah required the engagement of a specialized forestry project management
team to assist SAFODA. A consultant firm was engaged for this purpose and began
work on the site in July 1985, ten months prior to loan effectiveness. In the
two years prior to the project, SAFODA had planted a total of 130 ha in the
project area.  Over the next two years the combined Consultant/SAFODA Project
Management Team (PMT) managed to plant 1,341 ha.
5.3       The PMT was made up of a team leader, a planting manager and a
mechanical engineer, with their counterparts from SAFODA staff. The build up in
implementation capacity was initially slower than anticipated at appraisal, but
eventually exceeded it. It was hoped that the project would build capacity to
about 1,000 ha per year of plantation establishment.   In fact, by project
completion the PMT was comfortably able to manage a sustained planting program
of 2,000 ha per year and adequately maintain the previous plantings.
5.4       Implementation was hampered by a number of factors, including:  (a)
isolation of the project area; (b) climate; (c) difficulty of operating a semi-
autonomous PMT within SAFODA's structure; (d) difficulty of recruiting and
retaining adequate counterpart staff for the project; and, (e) the slowness to
develop a comfortable working relationship with local inhabitants.
5.5       Isolation.  The project area is isolated, not only by distance from
commercial centers, but also by poor infrastructure and by being located on a
peninsula that is not a through route. The arrangements within SAFODA required
project staff to travel frequently from the site to SAFODA headquarters, a
journey of 200 km, with problems of roads being impassible during parts of the
wet season and with the ferry across the Pitas river often being out of service
and requiring a vehicle on either side of the river.  This isolation caused
delays, added to costs, and aggravated the problem of attracting and retaining
staff (para. 6.8).
5.6       Climate.  Although the average annual rainfall in the project area
(2,200 mm) is sufficient for forestry, its distribution throughout the year and
its unreliability posed problems for implementing the planting program. Most of
the rain falls in the November-January period as intense downpours with fast and
heavy runoff.   High evapotranspiration rates quickly deplete soil moisture,
leading to plant stress, causing the area to be characterized as drought-prone
(relative to Sabah conditions).  The fast drying out of the soil resulted in
plant deaths, fires and delays in planting, all pushing up costs. An additional
problem arose because the wet season and the planting period straddled two
calendar and fiscal years.  Any delay in planting because of late rains was



reflected as a planting shortfall for the year, even though the acreage for the
season may have been right on target. The unsuitability of annual reporting and
budgeting on a calendar instead of a seasonal basis was never satisfactorily
resolved, and yearly achievements continued to reflect part of two separate
planting seasons.
5.7       SAFODA's  Obiectives  and  Structure.        Implementation  was  also
complicated by unsettled questions about SAFODA's mandate and structure. SAFODA
was established as a commercial forestry corporation under 1976 and 1981 Sabah
Acts and was charged with carrying out forestry and reforestation activities on
behalf of Sabah State. As a corporation, SAFODA receives its funds predominately
as recoverable loans. In practice, SAFODA functions as a government department
in operations and staffing. SAFODA's operations focus on reforesting wasteland
and marginal agricultural land while improving the welfare of local people
through community involvement and in a manner in which cost recovery will be
partial at best. This ensures that the land resources SAFODA receives are poor,
while the expectations of what it can achieve in improving incomes and living
conditions are unrealistically high. SAFODA does not evaluate its projected and
ongoing activities according to the usual tests of commercial merit, nor does it
have the capacity to do so. This has led SAFODA into generally unsustainable
projects and into a way of managing its activities that is not cost effective.
5.8       This outlook persisted throughout the project period.  For instance,
nursery and other workers received a full day's wage for tasks completed by mid-
morning. SAFODA was unable to resist the pressure to distribute benefits without
due regard to the timing or quantum of net benefits to be obtained from the
project returns.  Project implementation focused on expanding at the maximum
rate, without due regard to cost control or other standard management tools.
This has left the project with a lot of valuable but unprocessed management
information data in which SAFODA has little interest (para. 6.8). This point is
of more than just passing interest, since lack of cost control hampers efforts
to attract financial backing from the private sector. The inefficient use of
labor was derived from the premature settling of 200 families in new houses
supplied by SAFODA in the project site; the need to keep the occupants in
permanent work and to provide work for families in villages whose customary-use
shifting cultivation lands were affected by SAFODA's activities (para. 6.10).
5.9       Counterpart Staff.  SAFODA's position remains ambiguous.  Although a
corporation, its staff come under civil service rules and pay scales, making it
unable to compete with the private sector for candidates with adequate skills and
experience. Staff in the project area are relatively junior, and for promotion
need to transfer to SAFODA headquarters or to other departments.   SAFODA's
inability to attract and retain high calibre staff in the project area limited
the skills transfer impact of the expatriate members of the PMT. The difficulty
of finding and keeping a good project manager to succeed the expatriates remained
a problem through to project completion.   The management contract had to be
extended by one year because SAFODA was unable to provide a local manager for the
project in 1988. It is understood that the activities in the project area are
once again being managed from the capital city, Kota Kinabalu some 200 km
distant, the same inappropriate situation as prior to the project.



- 6 -
5.10      Relationships with Local Inhabitants.   The Bengkoka Peninsula is
sparsely inhabited with only 4,000 families in an area of 1,250 km2. Except for
a small area of forest reserve in very steep country, the original forest cover
was long gone and the use of the land for continual shifting cultivation was
evident from the dense lalang grass (Imperata cylindrica).  Prior to project
start-up, the main economic occupations were shifting cultivation, fishing, and
minor subsistence activities supplemented by seasonal employment outside of the
Peninsula. The arrival of SAFODA was a major disturbarce, greeted with caution
by local inhabitants. As the planted area expanded, cultivators were locked out
of lands they regarded as theirs (para. 6.10). Land ownership was disputed with
SAFODA, while strangers as project staff, contractors and petty traders entered
the area.   Fires were common in the tree stands.   While these could not
definitely be proven to have been deliberately set, the view of the then current
PMT was that the fires were frequently set as a result of land and labor
disputes.   Project management countered by giving local inhabitants jobs, a
school, a health clinic, access to infrastructure and other benefits.   Two
successful measures were the contracting of fire prevention services to adjacent
villages and construction of small shops near the project headquarters for use
by locals. The initial difficulties have now been overcome to a large extent,
but the problem could reoccur if a major expansion were undertaken without prior
resolution of the land tenure issues.
Smallholder Treefarming
5.11      Implementation of this component proved to be relatively problem-free.
The implementing agency, Sabah Forest Industries (SFI), like SAFODA, is a Sabah
State-owned corporation, but unlike SAFODA it operates outside the civil service
structure and pay scale. Its operational area is located adjacent to the town
of Sipitang in southern Sabah. SFI's main business is operating a 120,000 ton
per year integrated paper mill for production and export of fine quality writing
paper. The mill feedstock is mixed tropical hardwood from the moist forest of
the Crocker Range. The mill development plan included the eventual switch to
plantation-grown wood as close to the mill as possible and some 12,000 ha of
Acacia manxium and other species has been established on land held by SFI. SFI
agreed to implement the trial to encourage smallholders to grow wood as a cash
crop.
5.12      Contrary to the Bengkoka experience, local people saw the development
of treegrowing as something from which they would benefit without a threat to
their existing situation. The physical presence of the market, the SFI mill, in
the neighborhood plus the purchase contract with SFI provided enough security
to induce potential growers to take the risk. Instead of the planned 500 ha over
three years, 713 ha were planted within half this time by 282 smallholders.
Concurrently, a study of the potential for large-scale expansion of the program
(para. 6.16) was being financed under the project and the Bank decided not to
support further expansion until results of the study were available. One item
of concern was the planting of a significant amount of trees on what proved to
be unsuitable sites (para. 6,11).   Implementation of the study proved more
difficult than expected (para. 6.18), and SFI decided to support expansion using
its own resources.



-7-
Research Plantation
5.13      The FRC has its major facilities at SEPILOK, some 14 km from the FD
complex near Sandakan, the principal town on Sabah's east coast, and maintains
several research outstations within the forests in the interior. One of these
is at Segaliud Lokan, some 80 km distant. The project upgraded the outstation
to a full research facility with an area of 500 ha for field experimentation
particularly with respect to re-establishment of indigenous dipterocarp species
within degraded forests.  Implementation proceeded slowly, to a large extent
because of the distance from the site and because of the slowness of the planning
and procurement process in the FD. The field trials also took a long time for
planning and establishment because of other commitments of senior research
planning staff. By project completion, the facility was completed as planned but
took five years instead of three.
Research
5.14      The research program proved the most difficult to implement, primarily
because it was not properly prepared.  The capacity of the FRC to absorb the
major program envisaged by the project was not well evaluated. The institutional
arrangements for forest research within Malaysia, and particularly within Sabah,
are not conducive to an efficient allocation of scarce research capacity. The
federal Forest Research Institute of Malaysia (FRIM) is mandated as having the
responsibility for forest research throughout the country, yet Sabah and Sarawak
maintain independent forest research institutions based on the Constitutional
primacy of States over land matters.   Because of its small population (1.5
million) Sabah finds it difficult to obtain and keep its own pool of senior
research officers required to adequately run its own research program. While
facilities and foreign expertise can be provided easily enough, the supply of
experienced local researchers is fairly inelastic in the short and medium term.
In addition, the FD must compete with four Sabah State-owned, in whole or in
part, forestry entities generally able to offer better terms and conditions than
the FD. SFI, SSSB, Sabah Foundation, and SAFODA all carry out forestry research.
During the project period the FRC was undergoing a major staff development
program necessitating study leave for key researchers and was not able to take
on the major program envisaged by the project. The PDG attempted to structure
and prioritize the large amount of research considered important by holding an
inter-agency research workshop in March 1987. On the basis of this the research
program was cut by half and parts of it were implemented for the FRC by the other
Sabah forestry agencies and by FRIM and University Pertanian Malaysia.
Studies
5.15      Seven studies were considered  important to complement  the field
trials.   Studies in marketing and processing of Acacia mankium were thought
necessary before embarking on a major plantation expansion. Bank experience and
elsewhere has shown that the argument for establishing a large tree resource in
the belief that the supply will generate demand is not valid, particularly for
a little known species.   This is particularly  true where extraction costs are
greater than the net value of the product and a study of wood transport from the
Bengkoka Peninsula was included. A study of the incentives for private sector



- 8 -
investment in commercial reforestation was included since that sector was the
major beneficiary of logging and was required to reforest under concession terms.
In fact, concessionaires simply forfeited the replanting bond. Studies were also
included to assess the potential for large-scale expansion of smallholder tree-
farming and for assessing the suitability of sites for plantation establishment.
Finally, provision was made for studies in sustained management of natural
forest.
5.16      Only the incentives and treefarming studies were carried out under the
project itself. Early on during project implementation, it was found that the
processing, marketing and transport studies were redundant to studies already
under way for the same purpose and available to the Sabah Government. The topics
under the forest management study were absorbed into the research program and the
site survey study became part of the tree farming study.
5.17      Incentives  Study.    The  study  of  incentives  for private  sector
plantation development in Sabah began with a background seminar in November 1987,
and attracted participants from many countries who detailed the experiences of
the Philippines, Brazil, Europe and elsewhere. The findings of the conference
were used to draw up terms-of-reference for the detailed study and a contract was
awarded to a Malaysian firm in September 1988, with submission of the final
report required in January 1989. Implementation of the study proved troublesome
and the final report was not received until May 1990. The basic cause of the
difficulties encountered was the substitution of other personnel for those
nominated in the study contract.  The nominated study director and principal
researcher used a foreign consultant to carry out the work. The consultant did
not follow the terms-of-reference, which required a specific empirical analysis
of Malaysian experience with regard to Sabah and a review of incentive programs
elsewhere, nor did it follow up on the valuable start made at the seminar.
Instead, an unsatisfactory draft was produced presenting a general treatise on
forestry without the author visiting Sabah. The firm agreed that the draft did
not comply and after discussions with the Bank and the Sabah authorities a second
draft was produced by another consultant under the same arrangements. This draft
was accepted as marginally adequate.  The major shortcoming again was a weak
empirical analysis on which to base general statements, with inadequate follow-up
on relevant experience in Sabah.   The report is essentially a review of the
literature. The terms-of-reference for the study should have anticipated this
and should have been more specific in spelling out how much background and how
much analysis was required.
5.18      Smallholder Treefarming Study.  The objective of this study was to
assess the potential for a large expansion of the smallholder treefarming pilot
project. This required examination of the experience so far, an evaluation of
the area of suitable soils and sites, a review of species suitability, an
analysis of economic merit, and a review of social impact.   This study also
proved difficult to implement for much the same reason. A contract was awarded
in December 1987 to an international firm of high regard with a local partner.
Execution of the study was left mainly to the local partner, which did not have
the required expertise in major areas of investigation. The study was done in
three parts, namely, evaluation of physical resources suitable for tree farming,
evaluation of the ongoing trial program and strategy for expansion, and a socio-



economic survey of the intended participants in the program.   The inception
report was prepared by the international partner and was acceptable. Interim
reports prepared by the local partner in 1988 on existing tree farming and on
socio-economic conditions were also acceptable, but the report on physical
resources was quite inadequate because the local partner did not have expertise
particularly in soils and land use capability analysis and turned the study into
an exercise using that expertise which it did have. The local firm's specialty
was in the interpretation and utilization of satellite imagery. While this is
a useful tool of analysis, in this case it should not have substituted for
competent land utilization assessment.   The international partner accepted
responsibility for rectifying the study shortcomings in January 1989 and a
satisfactory report was eventually produced in 1991, two years later than
specified in the contract.
Training
5.19      The objective of this component was to give Sabah officers involved
in forestry planning, management and finance exposure to relevant experience
elsewhere in the region. Four study tours were undertaken, being: (i) to the
Philippines to look at the Bank-supported smallholder treefarming project with
PICOP (1506-PH); (ii) to Thailand to review successful tree breeding and
improvement programs; (iii) to New Zealand to examine the production and
marketing of plantation wood particularly in the private sector; and (iv) to
Indonesia and Peninsular Malaysia to look at large scale plantations using the
same species and technology as used in Sabah. This component did not present any
implementation problems.
Institution Building
5.20      During project preparation and appraisal, it became clear that the
Sabah Department of Development did not have the capacity for in-depth evaluation
of forestry investment projects, such as SAFODA's Bengkoka proposals, nor did the
FD. This was considered a serious omission because of the importance of forestry
to the State. In addition, establishment of a forestry unit within the DOD was
considered necessary to coordinate the multiple components of the project and to
link ongoing results of trials and studies with preparation of a follow-on
project. Establishment of a Project Preparation and Monitoring Unit (PPMU) was
a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 5.01(c) of the Loan Agreement). It
was agreed that the office would be staffed on a full time basis by an economist
and a forester with secretarial assistance, a vehicle for field work and office
facilities. The Unit was established, equipped and staffed using two economists
having other responsibilities in the DOD and a financial analyst on a full time
contract basis. A forester was seconded from the FD for 18 months.
5.21      Operation of the PPMU was generally without problems and received full
management support.  However, the temporary and part-time nature of the Unit
affected functioning to some extent.   For example, no career progress was
possible in the Unit and the seconded forester returned to the FD. Secondly, the
value of the Unit as other than a secretariat was not always clear to the
agencies implementing the project and information access appears to have been
difficult, perhaps because the Unit may have been perceived as an "outsider".



- 10 -
6.        Proiect Results
Results of the Pilot Plantation at Ben,koka
A.        Plantation Development
6.1       Area Planted.  The project proposed planting 3,000 ha over four years.
The project actually achieved 6,917 ha over seven years between loan approval and
closing table (6.1). By loan closing the PMT had raised its capacity to plant
some 2,000 ha per year, a tenfold increase over the pre-project situation. The
net area established was 7,553 ha, including 636 ha established prior to the
project. The gross area planted was about 7,900 ha of which several hundred ha
were burnt or failed for various reasons-.
Table 6.1: Area Established - Actual and Proiected, 1985-1991
(Ha. cumulative)
Planting                     Established
Projected            Achieved            (Net Area)
Pre-Project                                   636                  636
1985                   300                401                1,037
1986                 1,000                485                1,522
1987                 1,200                960                2,482
1988                   500                855                3,337
1989                                    1,094                4,431
1990                                    1,452                5,883
1991                                    1,670                7,553
Total                3,000               6,917                7,553
1/   Numbers are approximate.  Problems with reconciling recorded plantings
with surveyed establishment have generally been resolved but some
difficulties remain with tabulation of early years.



- 11 -
6.2       Species Performance.  Acacia mangium proved to be the correct species
for the project site. The species is tolerant of difficult conditions including
drought, delays in transfer from nursery to field, poor soils, and weed
competition. The species proved exceptional in capturing lalang-infested land,
quickly suppressing weed growth and visibly improving soil structure while
contributing to soil nitrogen and organic matter. Form and growth of mangium
stands are very good. Yields are good, with mean annual increments at year 7 of
20-30 m3/ha/yr, and compare well with first rotation yields of other species on
more favorable sites and with mangium on plantations elsewhere. The optimum age
for pulp rotation is seven years after planting with production of 140 m3-210 m3
expected.
Table 6.2: Tree Growth Rates in Prolect Area
Mean Annual Increment       Production
Site Type                      (mSlhalyr)              (m3/ha)
Proiect Area
20                     140
Grassland                                    25                      175
Scrub                                        30                      210
Degraded forest
Comparators
1-2
Sabah natural forest                       15
Thai Eucalypt                              15
Sumatra Eucalypt                           13
Brazil Eucalypt                             8
Portugal, Vietnam, Eucalypt                25-30
Sumatra Mangium                            20-30
East Sabah Mangium                         17-25
South Sabah Mangium
6.3       Testing of different mangium provenances resulted in improvements in
yield, vigor and tree form and indications are that improvement potential remains
relatively unexploited. Second rotation yields will be higher, with mean annual
increment in the range of 30-40 ms on well managed suitable sites.
6.4       Plant Disease.   Acacia mangium in Malaysia had been known to be
susceptible to heart rot and the trees at Bengkoka, as elsewhere in Sabah, proved
vulnerable.  An investigation by a consultant pathologist in 1990 found that
disease incidence and severity increased with age and that by year eight, some
50% of the trees were severely infected with soft rot extending more than 1



- 12 -
meter#1. Heart rot is caused by a secondary pathogen entering a naturally
inflicted or branch pruning wound.   The core wood becomes discolored and
eventually soft and spongy. Tree growth remains unchecked and no external effect
is visible. The recovery of wood is affected as utilizable volume is reduced.
The implications are that the trees must be harvested before age eight for
pulping and, more significantly, the species is not suitable for milling into
lumber until the disease is brought under control. There are indications that
provenance selection and better silviculture practice (pruning, etc.) may reduce
the severity of the disease, but at this stage nothing definite is known. In
early 1992, on the advice of the FRIM, the Minister of Primary Industries
prohibited the planting of further mangium in Peninsular Malaysia (where the
species is grown for sawlogs) pending further investigation.  The species is
still planted in Sabah for pulp.
B.        Costs and Prices
6.5       Costs.   Costs of field operations averaged M$1,925/ha.   This is
similar to that in Sabah and elsewhere, but is somewhat on the high side
considering little heavy land clearing was required. Because of the pilot size
of the operation, its remoteness, and its experimental nature costs were expected
to be high.   Within  the  cost  structure  there  is room to reduce  costs,
particularly for labor and roading.   About 35 m of road per ha has been
constructed, whereas 20 m per ha is probably all that is required for the
terrain. Sabah wage rates of about US$8/day for unskilled labor are about double
those in Indonesia and the Philippines. Within the project area, the staffing
ratio of one employee per 6.3 ha of plantation is considered very high by
international standards and may result from pressure to gain goodwill among local
people to avoid conflict over land use (para. 6.10). Scope for cost reduction
through mechanization of many operations exists, but the need to employ locals
and the unsuitability of much of the terrain argue against such a strategy.
6.6       Since harvesting has not yet begun, there are no firm estimates of the
costs of upgrading roads, logging, trucking, scaling, bundling, stevedoring and
final overhead. These are generally about three times the field costs. Current
indications are that the all-up cost of roundwood delivered to the nearest wharf
site (Mempakad) would be about M$65/m3 (US$26/M3), including a 10% profit margin.
This would be about the same as for other Sabah growers. At the current actual
export price for this product and species received FOR Sabah (about M$60/m3 for
wood with 40% moisture), expansion of the plantation along the current cost curve
for roundwood would be marginally viable, at best, and could not carry the cost
of social overhead. Furthermore, the likely reduction of merchantable volume due
to heart rot would increase the cost/mi' and decrease the price (para. 6.4).
C.        Institution Building
6.7       Proiect Manaetement.   SAFODA's operations in the area prior to the
establishment of the PMT suffered from the absence of qualified and experienced
2/   Shin-ichiro Ito, 1990, A Survey of Heart-rot in A. Mangium, Report to
SAFODA.



- 13 -
project management which was essentially done from Kota Kinabalu, some 200 km
distant. Supervision of daily operations was diffident and the supervisor did
not reside at the project site. The arrival of the expatriate experts comprising
a project manager, mechanical engineer, and a plantation manager, together with
the establishment of good housing and offices and approval of the budget for a
larger program, had a marked impact on performance.   Transfer of management
skills and technology was generally successful as evidenced by the improved field
performance but at the end of the consultant contract in June 1988 SAFODA had not
been able to provide and retain a suitable candidate to take over the project
manager position. The contract was extended and a suitable Sabahan took over and
managed to continue satisfactory implementation.
6.8       Nevertheless, at levels below that of project manager, absorptive
capacity remains an issue.  For example, a cost control specialist set up a
system for cost  control  as a management  tool  in 1987.   This was never
internalized and used in addressing the cost issues mentioned above. Similarly,
other management information systems were established but not incorporated
because of SAFODA's inability to provide adequately trained and motivated staff
at lower levels. Since the departure of the experts, very little has been done
on the analysis and interpretation of data from the permanent sample plots and
other highly relevant research has lapsed. During project implementation, SAFODA
itself was undergoing serious institutional problems many of which remain
unresolved and was unable to provide the project with the necessary institutional
backing.
D.        Social Development
6.9       An important object of SAFODA's original proposal was social and
economic development of the indigenous inhabitants of the Peninsula, among
Malaysia's poorest.  This was not a specific objective of the pilot project,
which was mainly intended to test the technical feasibility of sustainable
plantation development based on Acacia mangium. Nevertheless, the views of the
local people were solicited, their rights acknowledged and they were encouraged
to participate in the project.   Two hundred houses were built prior to the
project in anticipation that a settlement project with 2,000 houses would be
approved. No further houses were built by the project. However, the Government
funded from its own resources an elementary school, a high school, a clinic, a
mosque, some shop-houses and other facilities. Local people improved their own
homes and standard of living from wages earned. Women working in the nursery and
elsewhere were able to earn cash for the first time and traders entering the
project site offered competition to the few area merchants for the first time.
All this, though, depends on the continued expansion of the plantation. A move
to maintenance only would lower the labor requirement markedly and have a
depressing effect on socio-economic activity.   This would likely cause a
resurgence of land claims against SAFODA.
6.10      Land Claims.  Sabah law recognizes customary use by native Sabahans
as the basis for issuing formal land titles. The project area forms part of a
larger swathe of land used by shifting cultivators for generations, as evidenced
by the vegetative covering and ongoing swidden outside project boundaries.
SAFODA has received formal use rights of an extended project area on a



- 14 -
"gazettement" basis.  That is, SAFODA can use the land pending resolution of
claims disputes.   Only after resolution can the process of titling through
alienation begin. Although SAFODA has been dealing with the issue for over ten
years, little has been achieved and counterclaims remain open. It has proven
difficult to gauge the importance of land disputes. While SAFODA maintains that
there are few claims with sufficient merit to proceed to litigation, this is
partly because only claims lodged before 1983 will be reviewed.
Results of Smallholder Treefarmin2
6.11      After the Bank capped its participation at 713 ha (para. 5.12), SFI
continued the program as its "Seedling Loan Scheme", and another 756 ha were
planted by the time of Loan closing. The final total was 1,469 ha planted by 644
smallholders, at an average of 2.3 ha per woodlot. The trial established that
pulpwood trees are an acceptable smallholder crop where security of markets,
technical assistance and other factors reduce growers' perception of risk.
However, the interim results also indicate that caution is advisable. Because
the woodlots are planted in scattered parcels, across a wide range of site
suitability  and farm conditions,  the plantings  are  extremely variable  in
performance. In general the overall growth rate of the trees is considered too
low for commercial viability (mean annual increment of 10 m3/yr at age 7), though
probably acceptable to smallholders with low opportunity cost of labor and land.
Growth was highly variable and though the mean is about 10 m3/yr, the best stands
were growing at a mean of 20 m3/yr or better.  Part of the variability is due to
soil conditions, part is due to poor plant care, and part due to problems
associated with management of the program.
6.12      In a follow-up survey, participants were in agreement that the program
was worth joining, but were disappointed at the way the program was implemented.
Tree seedlings were sometimes delivered at the wrong time, or without adequate
prior notice, and SFI advisers did not always provide the advice needed. On the
other hand, survey respondents admitted that farmers themselves often lacked the
motivation to follow the prescribed operations for a new crop with no income for
at least seven years.
6.13      These problems are to be expected since both SFI and the participants
are new to both the crop and the strategy. Better advice is now being given on
site suitability and the first plantings  are soon to be harvested.   The
generation of a cash flow should promote grower confidence in the program and
commercial level performance is feasible in the second rotation provided the
technical assistance services are upgraded. As at Bengkoka, urgent attention
needs to be taken with respect to heart rot incidence and severity in Acacia
mangium and the opportunity for planting other species on the better soils.
Under the Studies component, the feasibility of expanding the program was studied
in depth and concluded that up to 30,000 ha of privately owned farmland within
the economic transport distance of the paper mill was available for smallholder
pulpwood production.   Even if only one-half the potential area is planted to
trees this could provide 30% of the mill's annual wood requirement at a cheaper
cost than SFI's own plantation or MTH supplies.



- 15 -
Research Results
6.14      Despite the slow start to the program, this component added to the
research capability of the FRC. Scientific equipment and buildings were provided
as was training, both local and overseas, in tree breeding, forest entomology,
biometrics and other subjects.   A program of field trials and laboratory
investigations relevant to the technical issues of the project were undertaken.
Some are completed while some are long-term by nature and will continue after the
project.   For completed studies, such as a review of plantation species and
provenances in Sabah, results have been published or are in preparation for
publishing. The research component was formulated by considering the activities
needed to support the project without due regard to the capacity of the FRC,
given that it had to provide operational support to the rest of the forest sector
activities and much time was lost in developing a multi-agency system for
contracting out work that the FRC could not accommodate.
6.15      Experience under the project clearly demonstrates that the FRC does
not at present have the capacity to support the major expansion into plantations
envisaged by the Sabah State Government, which projects an annual harvest of some
2-3 million m3 per annum from fast-growing species in the near future. Any major
plantation proposal would need to incorporate independent research capacity into
its cost estimate. Alternatively, consideration should be given to restructuring
Malaysia's forestry research arrangements. Both Sabah and Peninsular Malaysia
have had large government sponsored planting programs using Acacia mangium, while
its susceptibility to heart rot has been long known (Waring, L., Milling Tests
of Acacia mangium, Asia-Pacific Forest Industries Development Group, Kuala
Lumpur, 1983). At the least, the connections between research and operations,
and between the State and Federal forest-related agencies, appear warranted.
Studies
6.16      Tree Farming Study.  The study surveyed 50,000 ha of land within the
economic transport distance from the Sipitang paper mill to assess suitability
and availability of land for private sector tree growing both smallholder and
commercial in size.   Farmers'  attitudes were canvassed and used to plan a
technical assistance and credit strategy. About 30,000 ha of this land was found
to be generally under-utilized ("idle land"), suitable and available for tree
farming. Of this total, some would not be planted because of farmer choice or
other limitations not revealed by the study, to give an expected planted area of
20,000 ha if the program were to proceed. The wood would be suitable for pulping
and could provide the mill with one-third of its annual raw material requirements
at lower cost than forest hardwoods or wood grown on SFI's own plantations. The
IRR for treefarming with full cost recovery and direct benefits only was
estimated to be about 8%. This is in accordance with general plantation returns
and is considered acceptable.  This would be expected to rise over time with
productivity raising measures being developed.
6.17      The  study  identified  the  conditions  necessary  for  a successful
program.   The most important were the need to diversify the species to be
planted,  the technical assistance requirements,  and market security.   The
subsequent experience with mangium heartrot supported the general proscription
on monoculture. Both the technical assistance and marketing would require that
SFI take a leading role in the program. In summary, the study is a satisfactory



- 16 -
identification/feasibility report that sets out the basis of merit for an
innovative approach to plantation forestry.  The major risks are shown to be
institutional and provenance/species.
6.18      Incentives Study.  The incentives study was designed to answer the
question of why the private sector was not involved in plantation forestry in
Sabah, except for the faltering Sabah Softwoods joint venture, and to review
experience overseas in encouraging reforestation as a commercial enterprise. The
1987 initiating seminar on this topic emphasized that forest plantations are a
marginal economic activity for the private sector unless they are integrated with
industrial processing, mainly because they cannot compete with underpriced wood
from the standing natural forests. The seminar detailed the strong impact of
taxation concessions to compensate for the implicit subsidy on forest wood
supplied to industry. The seminar also pointed out the budgetary implications
of incentives' programs and the perverse effects that may arise, particularly the
clearing of natural forests to take advantage of the incentives.
6.19      The subsequent study had been expected to follow-up on these matters
in the Sabah context.   To some extent, this was done.   However, the study
presented a fairly conventional treatment of arguments against subsidies in
general. For example, the presentation of the impact of over-valued exchange
rates bears no relevance to the study context. In fact, the study gave more
emphasis to treatment of pricing of natural forest products and sustainable
forest management where the author's interest lay. While these topics are of
greater importance, the focus of this study was on plantations. Sabah has a lot
of unutilized land which for various reasons will not be returned to natural
forest. The soils and climate are very good for tree production yet the private
sector has shown little interest. The study was expected to clarify why this is
so and what could be done about it, if anything. The smallholder treefarming
component showed that farmers are prepared to plant idle farmland if the
incentives are right. In the Sabah case, the security of the market was the key.
The trees were not planted at the expense of natural forest. An expansion of the
program to promote wood as a substitute crop in place of marginal expansion of
rubber and oil palm may have merit. The study findings with regards to natural
forest management are correct and the rather general reflections on plantation
incentives are also correct, but study results are not expected to be significant
because of lack of specific treatment of the objectives spelt out in the terms
of reference.
7.        Prolect Sustainability
7.1       The  project  was  designed  to  test  the  viability  of  plantation
development based on Acacia mangium, transfer technology and build institutional
capacity. This has been achieved to a large extent, and the conditions needed
for a successful project on a large scale for the different components are now
known.
7.2       As a result of the project experience, the Bank has recommended to the
Sabah Government that a major expansion at Bengkoka poses a serious market risk.
Present indications are that Acacia mangium will not produce the high-value
sawlogs needed to offset the high cost, particularly transportation.   SAFODA



- 17 -
accordingly has pursued a  possible joint venture with a foreign company to
supply the partner with mangium pulpwood chips. If such an arrangement were to
eventuate, the full benefits of the trials would be realized and sustained.
7.3       The Bank also recommended to the Sabah Government that the existence
of the paper mill at Sipitang and its demand for pulpwood, together with the good
results of the treefarming trials nearby, offered a better project opportunity.
In June 1990, the Bank appraised a follow-on project to support a major expansion
of both the tree-farming component and SFI's own commercial plantation.
Following appraisal, SFI suddenly withdrew its support on the grounds that the
cost of plantation wood was not competitive with mixed tropical hardwoods, and
project processing was therefore suspended. Without SFI's nucleus estate as a
technical assistance base, a major expansion of smallholder tree-farming would
have posed undue risk. Even on the present small scale, the sustainability of
tree farming depends on SFI's interest. Harvesting trials of the first planted
trees will begin in late 1992, and results should determine sustainability of
farmer and SFI interest.
8.        Bank Performance
8.1       In retrospect, the Bank was correct in turning down the original
large-scale settlement proposals. SAFODA was stretched in implementing the small
project, the status of land usage and tenure was unresolved, and the project
would have been a large, permanent claim on public expenditure. Until a suitable
sawlog species or heartrot-free provenance of Acacia mangium is found, the stand
should be maintained on an R&D basis addressing these issues.   However, the
Bank's own initial enthusiasm for the settlement proposal, based on a virtually
unknown species, contributed to the misplaced expectations and only a post-
appraisal insistence on a milling test during internal review prevented a costly
error. The decision to recommend (and agree to finance) a smaller, pilot effort
was a good one.
8.2       The decision to add other trial components, such as treefarming and
research, also seems justified in light of the results but, for the research
program at least, preparation was not adequate. While adding what appeared to
Bank staff to be a small amount of research to support the trials had merit, the
capacity of the FRC should have been better investigated.
8.3       The Bank supervised the project regularly with 15 supervisions in 6.5
years. Continuity of task manager was maintained throughout and a wide range of
specialist technical expertise was used.
8.4       The main lessons which can be drawn from the Bank's experience with
the Project are:
(a) The project demonstrated the technology and management needed to
reforest problem sites through use of fast-growing legume trees
managed as commercial plantations, or as a means of capturing the site
to  re-establish  native  dipterocarp  species.    The  results  are
applicable to large areas of Southeast Asia covered by lalang grass
(Imperata cylindrica).



- 18 -
(b)  The project demonstrated the suitability of various locations in Sabah
for production of large volumes of industrial cellulose required to
substitute for valuable forest species in manufacturing of paper,
particle board and other reconstituted wood products.
(c)  The  project  demonstrated  the  suitability  of  these  trees  as  a
smallholder crop where an assured market and a nucleus estate is
nearby. The smallholder wood proved cheaper to grow than that from
plantations.
(d)  The project demonstrated the high returns to applied research. Major
differences in tree growth rates and tree form resulted from
interaction between sites and seed sources.
(e)  The experience during implementation justified the decision to proceed
with the pilot scheme at Bengkoka as an alternative to a large-scale
settlement project based on one largely unknown tree species. Tree
growth rates proved less than expected because of soil and climate
conditions and not enough was known on site-provenance interaction.
Even on a pilot scale, institutional capacity was strained for several
years.   Land tenure disputes between SAFODA and indigenous people
remain unresolved.
(f)  The data recorded by the project underscored the marginal financial
viability of stand-alone plantation forestry unless it is integrated
with a manufacturing facility, or other revenue raising activity.
While shadow-pricing the value of the wood to include social and
environmental benefits would more correctly reflect its true value to
Sabah's economy, the increment over market prices is not captured by
the planter. Accordingly, there is little private sector interest.
(g)  Project  coordination proved  difficult because  of  the number  of
entities involved.  The PDG was only partly successful in resolving
the problem as it had little influence over the policies and programs
of the participating agencies.   The PPMU was not provided with
adequate technical expertise needed for project monitoring and as
provided in the President's Report. Projects should be kept as simple
as possible with the minimum number of entities.
9.        Borrower Performance
9.1       In general, Borrower performance was better than expected on physical
implementation, but initially weak in terms of overall management. Shortcomings
in performance usually stemmed from the operating constraints the agencies
themselves faced and could do little about, or from unfamiliarity in Sabah with
Bank procedures. The main problems on the Borrowers' side came from the multiple
agencies involved.   This caused the one year's delay between approval and
effectiveness, as agreements had to be reached between the Federal and State
Governments and between the Sabah Government and the agencies, and among some of
the agencies.   This had been unwittingly aggravated by the Bank's  early



- 19 -
concentration on Sabah agencies with little communication with the Federal EPU
until somewhat late in the process.
9.2       The decision taken by Malaysia at negotiations not to establish a
proposed Special Account and a matching revolving fund caused problems for
implementation throughout the project period. For example, some components were
financed by a mix of Federal and State, Loan and Grant Funds, some reimbursable
and some not. A pre-financing arrangement could have smoothed out irregularities
in agencies' cash flows. The accounting and budgeting of this complex system
proved troublesome. A revolving project account was eventually opened, but after
initial drawdowns it was not used because of local procedural difficulties.
Complications also arose because the Sabah Government did not make budgetary
provision for the project in 1986 due to the delay in Loan signing, while the
Federal Government had made provision and agencies had begun implementation. It
is doubtful if much could have been done about internal Federal-State financing
in the context of this project, nor was there any flexibility possible during
project negotiations to alter Loan terms and conditions from the Bank.  The
lesson from this is the need for the Bank and the legal Borrower to ensure that
agencies new to Bank financing are kept fully briefed as early as possible in the
project cycle.
9.3       Unfamiliarity with Bank procedures delayed use of project funds. A
year after effectiveness, only 7% of projected disbursements had been made,
partly due to delayed start-up but also to failure to submit applications for
eligible expenditures. It was not until December 1988, more than two years after
effectiveness, that the project was visited by a Bank Disbursement officer.
Although project entities eventually became familiar with Bank procedures, the
lesson is that for new agencies a Bank person familiar with operational details
of reimbursement should join a mission at or soon after appraisal to review the
local budget procedures and explain reimbursement mechanisms.
10.       Proiect Relationship
10.1      Despite the initial disappointment at the Bank's refusal to finance
the original proposal, the agencies all cooperated fully, although the resulting
pilot project continued to be regarded as the "Bank's" project. However, at all
times relationships were positive.  Sabah officials were eager to learn Bank
procedures and methodology and were unstinting in providing logistical support
to supervision missions.   The differing points of view on the appropriate
investment follow-up to take advantage of the results of the considerable cost
and effort under the Technical Assistance Project are appreciated in a
professional manner.
11.       Consulting Services
11.1      A total of US$1.1 million was spent on consultants, equivalent to 17%
of total disbursements. Consultants were used for overall management of the
Bengkoka development and for training SAFODA staff in management, plantation
activities, mechanical supervision, and nursery operation. Special studies were
done at Bengkoka on fire protection, forest mensuration, tree nutrition,
budgetary and financial control procedures. After the PMT handed over management



- 20 -
of the component in 1989 to the SAFODA staff they had trained, four visiting
agent inspections were made in the following two years by the former managers.
During the project, volunteers from abroad gave technical assistance in agro-
forestry. Consultants also carried out the treefarming and incentives studies.
With the reservations already noted, consultant performance was satisfactory.
12.       Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1      The President's Report and Loan Agreement provided a useful framework
to guide project implementation although, because of the pilot nature of the
project, they were necessarily brief and often general. The reporting and record
keeping of the participating agencies was adequate but data processing fell
short, except in the case of SFI.  SFI maintains an R&D unit within its own
structure and data from the smallholder program is processed within its general
program.  In summary, the project achieved its purpose of generating data for
plantation development, investment and policy.



- 21 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.        Introduction
1.1       As stated in the Preface of the PCR, the participating agencies had
earlier presented their views in their separate PCRs. Part I of the PCR has
therefore incorporated the findings of the agencies concerned. This Review thus
summarizes the Borrower's perspective on the design and implementation of the
project and its development impact and lessons learned over and above what is not
stated in Part I. Except where indicated otherwise, this Review agrees with Part
I of the PCR.
2.        Design and Implementation Experience
2.1       In general, the overall project scope was too broad and ambitious
involving too many agencies - Government and parastatals thereby rendering
effective co-ordination and monitoring of the various project components
difficult.
2.2       The scope of the research program was too ambitious and did not take
into account the capacity of FRC at that time. The project also did not consider
the involvement of other forestry-related agencies, such as, SSSB, SFI and
SAFODA, each of which undertakes considerable research operations.
3.        Proiect Impact
Pilot Plantation in BenRkoka
3.1       The Pilot Plantation benefitted from the technical inputs of the PMT
in the early years which had resulted in a well established plantation.  The
Management that took over from the PMT had improved its capacity to maintain the
current project and to manage a development program of 2,000 hectares of new
planting a year.
3.2       The Project had generated employment opportunities and provided human
resources development in the region. It had also demonstrated to the locals that
tree cultivation can be an additional source of income.
3.3       The successful implementation of the Pilot Plantation had also drawn
the attention of international organizations, such as the FACE Foundation, and
private sector interest like SUMITOMO.   The FACE Foundation has indicated
positively on the grant funding for a start of some 2,000 hectares of Acacia
mangium plantation in the North Sabah Pulp area. The Memorandum of Understanding
and Implementation agreement with the FACE Foundation is scheduled to be signed
in June this year. Meanwhile, SUMITOMO has been holding discussion with SAFODA
and also co-financed the Feasibility Study of the Bengkoka Plantation and
Chipmill project study with a view of possible joint-ventureship in the near
future.



- 22 -
PPMU
3.4       The Project had succeeded in establishing a PPMU in the DOD. Although
PPMU started, initially, with two economists and was subsequently strengthened
with a financial analyst and a short term forester, the knowledge and expertise
acquired through constant interaction with Bank Mission members, and the
forestry-related agencies, both local and international, had enhanced the
planning capability as well as broadening the outlook of the personnel.  The
project had succeeded in enhancing the capacity of the PPMU and officers involved
in the Project in in-depth evaluation of forestry projects. The opportunities
provided under the Project to participate in study tours and seminars had also
benefitted the PPMU team.
3.5       However, at loan closing, the prospect of maintaining the PPMU team
intact is yet to be decided by the higher authorities.
Pilot Smallholder Tree Farming Proiect
3.6       The response of private landowners within Sipitang and neighboring
districts to participate in the tree planting scheme was overwhelming since the
implementation of the Pilot Project in 1986. This interest has spread to farmers
even as far as Papar, Tenom, Beaufort and Kuala Penyu districts. It has also
prompted SFI to devise a "Seedling Loan Scheme" whereby seedlings are provided
and delivered to farm sites, the costs of which are given on credit and payable
only at harvest.   This scheme will provide a complementary source of raw
materials at low investment costs to SFI's mill.
3.7       SAFODA too has embarked on the smallholder tree farming program in its
North Kudat areas in anticipation of a nucleus plantation project in Bengkoka
Peninsula. The State Government has recognized the potential role smallholder
tree farming will play in poverty eradication in the rural areas.
R&D
3.8       Improvement of the capability of some researchers in the agencies
involved in the implementation of the Project component was achieved.   The
research facilities in FRC were upgraded.   In addition,  superior planting
materials have been developed from the tree breeding studies. All these will
contribute towards the development of the Forestry sector.
Study Tours & Fellowships
3.9       The study tours had provided opportunities  for State officials,
technical and non-technical, to learn about current development and experience
in forestry in the neighboring countries. The exposure provided has benefitted
the participants tremendously and contacts with relevant foreign counterparts
were established. The expertise and knowledge acquired will contribute towards
the long term resource management of the State.
3.10      Communications and contact had been established and improved between
agencies locally as well as at the international levels. The guidance provided



- 23 -
by the Bank's Project Manager and Mission members had been very beneficial to the
officials especially to PPMU.  The Project also served to familiarize State
officers to the Bank's operations.
4.        Findings and Lessons Learned
4.1       The Project had generally achieved  its objectives  and with the
information now available, there is no doubt that the decision to proceed on a
pilot basis is a correct step. In the course of project implementation, there
were important issues and lessons learned which would serve as a basis for
planning of the future forestry development program in the State.
4.2       Given the pilot nature of the project, it is accepted that there is
a need for the project scope to be broad and to involve many agencies -
Government and parastatals. However, this has made effective co-ordination and
monitoring of the various components difficult.  This, coupled with insufficient
emphasis (by both the Bank and State Government) given to the establishment of
the PPMU, had resulted in the Unit not being sufficiently manned and supported
on a full time basis by the appropriate technical personnel. Technical inputs,
especially relating to forestry matters, thus had to be sought from other
departments/organizations on an ad hoc basis and this had affected the smooth
implementation of the Project Continuity of PPMU and works initiated under the
Project should be maintained to ensure the momentum generated in forestry
development is not lost.
4.3       The scope of the R&D program was relevant to the long term forestry
development of the State. However, consideration should have been given to the
pilot nature of the Project, the capacity of the FRC, and the involvement of
other forestry-related agencies.  The implementation of the research program
would have been more effective in time and utilization of the scarce research
resources available.   Although in the course of project implementation the
problem had been eased through contracting of certain projects to other agencies
with FRC being the coordinator, the lesson learned is that the authorities will
need to assess the relationship between research and operations as well as
establishing the linkage among FRIM, FRC, and other forestry-related agencies in
the State.
4.4       Both (a) and (b) above had contributed to the delay in project
completion and necessitated the extension of the project period.
Heart Rot
4.5       It is generally agreed that Acacia mangium in Malaysia had been known
to be susceptible to heart rot and that trees in Sabah have been found to be
attacked by heart rot. It is also noted that FRIM has established that the older
Acacia mangium stands in the Compensatory Plantation program suffer from 80Z-100Z
incidence of heart rot, and the Federal Ministry of Primary Industries (KPU) had
accepted the recommendation by FRIM to stop further planting of Acacia mangium
in the Compensatory Plantation program. However, results of a survey done in



- 24 -
Sabah!' show that the average incidence of heart rot is only 35.5Z in 6 to 9
years old stands. This shows that the heart rot problem in Sabah is a lot less
severe than that in Peninsular Malaysia.
4.6       The difference between the results  of the survey  in Peninsular
Malaysia and those in Sabah can be attributed to the fact that Acacia mangium
plantations in Sabah have been established with IMPROVED planting materials, and
those in Peninsular Malaysia with UNIMPROVED seed from the wild and roadside.
In Sabah, Acacia mangium breeding programs are still ongoing in the various
forestry-related organizations, particularly in SFI and FRC. In the breeding
program, any individual tree infected by any disease is selected AGAINST; thus
the future generations of Acacia manaium in Sabah are expected to be less
susceptible to infection by the pathogen(s).  The optimistic picture is that
heart rot will be eliminated in Acacia manaium plantation in Sabah, provided that
there is adequate investment on tree breeding and pathology R&D and that only
improved planting materials are used for plantation establishment.
4.7       Moreover, the above study indicates that the volume of wood affected
by heart rot is very low, from 0.0032 to 1.26Z for trees of more than 10 cm in
diameter (please refer to the Table below, taken from Mahmud et al's paper).  For
production of chip wood on lalang grassland, even at the present stage of tree
breeding research, these figures should not pose a serious problem.
4.8       Ito's- report indicates that the incidence of heart rot for stands
of 6 to 9 years old is between 50S to 80Z. This higher figure than that obtained
by Mahmud et al is correlated with the generally nutrient-poor sites in SAFODA.
Mahmud et al's survey covered both infertile (e.g., SAFODA areas) and fertile
sites (e.g., Gum Gum and Kolapis).   This shows that if the investors have
reasonably fertile land (e.g., loamy soil of the Tanjung Lipat soil family) for
planting Acacia mangium, they need not worry too much about heart rot. Ito did
not estimate the volume of heart rotted wood in the Acacia mangium plantation.
Acacia Hybrid
4.9       Results from preliminary research on Acacia hybrids undertaken by the
various forestry-related agencies have been encouraging. Therefore, one should
not discount the potential of Acacia hybrids as better pulp logs and higher value
timber in enhancing the returns of plantation investment.
5.        Bank's Performance
5.1       Future Bank involvement in any follow-up project should not involve
too many agencies and that the channelling of loans from the Bank to the
implementing agencies should be as direct as possible.   This would reduce
administration and red-tape.
1/ Survey of Heartrot in Acacia mangium, FRC, 1990, Mahmud, Lee and Ahmad.
2/ Shin-ichiro Ito, 1990, A Survey of Heart-rot in A. Mangium, Report to
SAFODA.



- 25 -
5.2        The Project experienced regular Supervision Missions from the Bank
which enhanced cooperation and working relationship with the State officials.
Furthermore, the transfer of technology was also effected through the wide range
of specialist technical expertise that came as part of the Missions.
Heart rot incidence, volume of wood affected by
heart rot and discoloration and incidence of termite attack
Age                          Heart         Rotted volume       Discolored                Rotted
group        Location         rot          (X merchantable      and rotted     Termite    Volume
(year)       (Plots)       incidence          volume)    -   -   voluse        attack     Stand
Rangp       Mean
9    Ulu Kukut (Sarang)     60.0      0.36-1.71     0.96       0.69-2.82       NiL       0.58
8    Gum-Gun (Gum-Gun)      30.0      0.02-2.78     0.77       0.32-2.78       NiL       0.23
8    Keningau (Malime &     48.7      0.05-18.10    2.59       0.30-18.10      Nil       1.26
Bahmula)
8    Kudat (MompiLis &      10.0      0.03-10.82    5.51       0.29-12.63      Nil       0.55
Hobut)
8    ULu Kukut (Timbang)    10.0      0.03          0.03       0.29            Nil       0.003
6    TeLupid (Telupid)      36.7      0.07-6.19     1.37       0.76-23.93      23        0.50
6    Kotapis (Kotapis A)    28.0      0.03-3.21     1.13       0.04-5.80        5        0.32
5.3       There were two visits made by officers from the Bank's Disbursement
Division. Although meetings were held with the various implementing agencies and
the officers visited PPMU and SAFODA, it would have been helpful in terms of the
preparation of annual reports had the Officers visited the Forestry Department
in Sandakan as well.
6.        Borrower's Performance
6.1       Although there was a delay in Loan signing and Loan effectiveness, the
Sate Government did make budgetary provision for the overall Project as early as
1986.
6.2       The Project experienced delays in the submission of Audited Annual
Reports (with the exception of SFI) due to institutional weaknesses.
6.3        In spite of the constraints and limitations encountered in the course
of project implementation, with the guidance and advice from the PDG and the



- 26 -
Bank, the various implementing agencies were able to complete the Project
successfully.
7.        Prolect Relationship
7.1       Relationship between Bank Staff and State officials throughout the
implementation of the Project were positive. Bank staff had been very helpful
and very forthcoming with advice and assistance in establishing contacts with
relevant international organizations thus broadening the contact base of the
State agencies.



- 27 -
PART III:   STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: RELATED LOANS
Loan Number                                                            Year
and Title                             Purpose                     of Approvat               Status
673-MA              Milling of sawlogs recovered during              1970          Completed 1974
Jengka Forestry Project   land cleaning for oil palm                                        PPAR 2119  6/1/78
development by FELDA                                           PCR  1/28/76
2828-MA             Support to forest research and to                1987           Completed 1992
National Forestry R&D         establish the Forest Research                                  (PCR under
Project               Institute as an independent agency                              Preparation)
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date
-Item
Planned                       Revised                       Actual
Identification a/                                                                              9/15/84
Preparation b/ 
Appraisal Mission c/
Loan Negotiations                    3/29/85                                                   3/29/85
Board Approval                       5/21/85                                                   5/21/85
Loan Signature d/                                                                              1/17/86
Loan Effectiveness                                                                             5/28/86
Loan Closing                        12/31/89                       12/31/91                   12/31/91
pJ   The pilot project was identified following appraisal in May 1983 of a large-scale settlement project, on
the basis of unacceptable risk and uncertainty.
J   Preparation was carried out in the Bank at headquarters on the basis of discussions during identification.
S/ No appraisal was carried out because of the analyses done during the 1983 appraisal of the original
project.
d/   Conditions of effectiveness delaying signing were execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between Malaysia
and Sabah, and execution of agreements between SAFODA and Sabah Forest Industries.



- 28 -
Table 3: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
Disbursement U5S Million Equivatent (Loan 2550-MA)
Fiscal
Year                 Estimated                Actual.                 Profile               Actuat as X
Cumulative              Cumutative              Cumulative             of Estimated
1985
Jun. 1985
1986
Sep. 1985                        .25
Dec. 1985                        .50                                             .08
Mar. 1986                        .80                                             .16
Jun. 1986                      1.10                                              .28
1987
Sep. 1986                      1.80                       .12                    .39                     6
Dec. 1986                      2.50                      1.26                    .52                    50
Mar. 1987                      3.05                      1.28                    .65                    42
Jun. 1987                      3.60                      1.30                    .91                    36
1988
Sep. 1987                      3.80                      1.60                   1.17                    42
Dec. 1987                      4.00                      2.05                   1.43                    51
Mar. 1988                      4.75                      2.29                   1.69                    48
Jun. 1988                      5.50                     2.34                    1.95                   42
Sep. 1988                      5.75                      2.82                  2.21                     49
Dec. 1988                      6.00                      3.23                  2.47                     54
Mar. 1989                      6.25                      3.23                   2.73                    52
Jun. 1989                      6.50                     3.63                   2.99                     56
1990
Sep. 1989                      6.50                     3.63                   3.25                     56
Dec. 1989                      6.50                     3.98                   3.64                     61
Mar. 1990                      6.50                     4.58                   4.03                     70
Jun. 1990                      6.50                     4.58                   4.29                     70
1991
Sep. 1990                      6.50                     4.63                   4.55                    71
Dec. 1990                      6.50                      5.20                  4.81                     80
Mar. 1991                      6.50                      5.20                  5.07                     80
Jun. 1991                      6.50                     5.41                   5.33                    83
Sep. 1991                      6.50                     5.75                   5.59                    88
Dec. 1991                      6.50                      5.75                   5.72                    88
Mar. 1992                      6.50                     6.31                   5.85                     97



- 29 -
Table 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
indicators                        Units                     -                          Actiil
Bengkoka
Nursery                                      Unit                        1                         1
Area Planted                                 ha                        3,000                     6,917
Administrative Buildings                     Units                       3                         3
Staff Housing                                Units                       3                         3
Water Supply                                 Units                       1                         1
Electricity                                  Units                       1                         1
Vehicles                                     Units                       4                         4
Forest Tracks, Roads                         km                         67                        250
S tltholder Progra
Area Planted                                 ha                         500                       713
No. of Participants                          Number                     100                       282
Vehicles                                     Units                       1                         1
Nursery                                      Units                       1                         1
Research Plantation
Area Cleared                                 ha                         500                       500
Trials Planted                               ha                         500                       143
Field Office                                 Units                       1                         1
Laboratory                                   Units                       1                         1
Vehicles                                     Units                       4                        13
Nursery                                      Units                       1                         1
ConsuLtants j/                               Months                     116                       N/A
a/  The studies were contracted on a lump sun payment basis.



- 30 -
Table 5: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
(in USS '000)
A. Proiect Costs
_ _ _ _ _      :t=      0   :Estimated  - _= _- _ _Actual        .  __________
Local       Foreign       Total         Local       Foreign        TotaL
Pilot Plantation                     3,880        4,002         7,882         3,636         4,901        8,537
Tree Farming                           413          117           530            86            86          172
Research                               709          601         1,310           645         1,117        1,762
Studies & Fellowships                  250          600           850                         188          188
Project Unit                           210           33           243           408            14          421
Total Base Costs                     5,462        5,353       10,815          4,774        6,306        11,080
Contingencies/UnaLlocated            1,138        1,147         2,285
Total Proiect Cost                   6,600        6,500        13,100         4,774        6,306        11,080
B. FinancinA
(USS '000)
PLanned                                 Final
Plantation Activities                             3,200                                  3,689
Treefarming                                          100                                    86
Equipment & VehicLes                                900                                  1,369
ConsuLtant & Training                             1,200                                  1,162
UnaLLocated                                       1,100
Total                                             6,500                                  6,306
Unused                                                                                      194



- 31 -
Table 6: PROJECT RESULTS
A. Direct Benefits at FuLL Development
Arealyear         MAI (m3rha)          3Yield/ha        ProductiATn/year
(ha)              Year 7          tm at year 7)            (m
Bengkoka
Without Project          200                 12                  84               16,800
With Project           2,000                 20                 140              280,000
Incremental            1,800                  8                  56              263,200
Treefarming
Without Project             0                 0                   0                    0
With Project              713                15                  56                74,865
B. Economic and Financial Impact
No economic or financial rate of return was calculated because of the
technical assistance nature of the project. The Bengkoka component resulted in
an injection of public funds into the area, leading to a major increase in
economic activities, which is obvious to observers but is not subject to
quantification because of inadequate data.



- 32 -
Table 6: PROJECT RESULTS
C. Studies
Study                            Purpose                               Status                        Impact
Treefarming           Assess potential for smaltholder               Completed satisfactorily   Identified some 20,000 ha
treefarming                                                               of suitable land
Incentives            Assess scope for private sector                Completed                   Good general and
involvement in reforestation and measure                                  theoretical overview but
financial incentives                                                      impact limited
Processing             Assess current situation                      Not done                    Studies were financed
Transport Marketing                                                                              under other programs
Site Surveys           To assess suitability of various              Combined with
locations for tree planting                   treefarming study
Forest Management     To devise methods for sustainable              Combined with R&D
management of natural forest                  program
Species and            Identify superior species/provenances         Ongoing                     Improved material
Provenance Trials                                                                                identified
Nursery Techniques    Improve quality of planting stock              Completed                   Better seedling condition
and survival
Nutrient               Improve early growth rates                    Completed                   Fertilizer regime
Requirements                                                                                     developed
Weed Control           Identify least-cost method of weed            Completed                   Better growth of young
control                                                                   trees
Site Preparation       Develop low-cost methods  f site clearing   Completed                     Better growth of new trees
and reduce soil compaction orAmage                                        at lower cost
Thinning and           Improve tree form                             Completed                   Silvicultural practices
Pruning                                                                                          improved
Pest Survey            Identify important pests in mangiun and       Completed                   Pests found to be
related species                                                           relatively minor in
____________________ _ __  ______________________________________           importance
Heart Rot Survey      Measure importance of heartrot in mangium   Completed                      Heartrot found to be
important
Otanraticn             Evaluate costs and benefits of                ComDp!e'd                   Plantations without
Economics              plantaticns                                                               processing activities
_________________ _  _____     ______          ~                   _______   found    to    be    marginat n



- 33 -
Table 7: STATUS OF COVENANTS
Loan Agreement Section                          SubJect                                    Status
5.01 (a)             Execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreement            Completed
5.01 (b)             Execution of Purchase Agreement between SFI   CompLeted
and SAFODA
5.01 (c)             Establishment of Project Unit                     CompLeted
5.01 td)             Employment of Management Consultants              Completed
Project Agreement
3.01 (a)             Submit audit reports to Bank within six           Project Unit and SFI
months of end of financiaL year                  generaLly on time.  SAFODA
and Forestry Department
generally Late.



34-
TabLe 8
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff _weeks)
FY 85   FY 86   FY 87   FY 88   FY 89   FY 90   FY 91   FY 92   Total
Prep & PreappraisaL                0.8        -        -        -       -        -        -        -       0.8
Appraisal                          2.8                 -       -        -        -        -        -       2.8
Negotiation                        0.2                                                                     0.2
Supervision                         -       7.0     8.3      6.5      7.3      4.0      3.9      10.6    47.6
Total                              3.8      7.0     8.3      6.5      7.3      4.0      3.9      10.6    51.4
8. Missions
Speciali-
Stage of                            Number of           Days              zation
Proiect Cycle             Year         Persons           In field          Represented                  Rating             ProbLem
Identification            09/84             1               4              Forester.
Preparation               12/84             1               4              Economist
Appraisal'                  -               -               -              Engrs.
Supervision
Mission No. 1          03/86            2                 4             Engr., Fi. Analyst              1
Mission No. 2          10/86            3                 5             Two Foresters, Economist        1
Mission No. 3          02/87             1                5             Economist                       1
Mission No. 4          07/87             1                4             Economist                       1                  -
Mission No. 5          11/87            2                 7             Forester, Economist             1
Mission No. 6          08/88            2                 4             Forester, Economist             1
Mission No. 7          11/88             1                2             Disbursement Officer            1
Mission No. 8          02/89            4                 10            2 For., 1 Ec., 1 Fi. An.        1
Mission No. 9          09/89             1                3             Economist                       1
Mission No. 10         02/90             1                3             Economist                       1
Mission No. 11         06/90            4                 4             Forester, Economist             1
Mission No. 12         02/91            2                 4             Forester, Economist             1
Mission No. 13         07/91            1                 3             Economist                       1
Mission No. 14         12/91            1                 2             Economist                       1
Mission No. 15         03/92            3                 11            2 Foresters, Economist          1
1  No appraisal mission.  Project based on findings of dropped project (para 2.2)



IBRD 18946
116'                                                                        118
MALAYSIA
FORESTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SABAH
_7 See Inset A                                  Project Areo
-7-  ~ ~  ~       ~       ~      ~     ~      Se   n  tAU                                      Settlement Area
Kudot         _                                            Pulp Mill
-         < oangkol                            A    Forestry Research Plantation
Roads
.    ri|JDA,] pPitos                                        Rivers
Ports
Kator orodu                                         t     Air Strips
Koto Belud                                                                     Swamps
Division Boundories
Tuoron                                                                    -  -     State Boundary
/ P    l  l -7- -   International Boundary
KotoKinobolu/                     Ro nu
Beluron      /     anaa
Popor
ambunon               T        -pd
omog
eufort         KEeningou
SABAH
pitong                                                                                           tLahod Dotu
PE NDAL AMAN
T A 'vA I
To Lowos   )
Sempurno
SARAW                              -N <T.0_U
K       H                                                       <              _e_
Mongkubou                          Inset  A
Lout                                                                                   0     20    40    60    80    100
KILOMETERS       I      I      I
INDONESIA                        MILE     lo   20   30   40   50   60
%   fe ht.O, B,r.B by .      B.  .1.C4  ft T. co     a'
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PrUnse, Co,oic   Trdhor 0.nb,8Ioy  aeb0   B ro.,0.  'boon 0o           180 _ dono
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  nT  Be'S 0roe  brO Bet 0040  k,tneore  Fw,c. Co,n'.t    *o
oTe.Iagfto                                                                               O W ..1*  V r iy    Ofn
o1                                                                       VIET NAM                                  PHILIPPINES
Sos                    L.kmdoo                               THAILAND
P.tos                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~Area of m
Kobotoson,                                                                                                  Mop
Lt3                                       k~~~~~~~~~~Sabaht
XotoTon    Q                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRUNE,8' oo
Konibongon                                                                               \      (.- 
M      A      L      A      Y      S      I     A
Sarawok
Sumatera   'NCJSINGAPORE                                  alimantan
I   N    D    0       N    E    S    I   A
'MARCH 1985



