Dmument of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
ivg. Hi -i
Rit Ne. P-3923-MA
REPORT AND RECOHMENDAMION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE -DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$6.5 MILLION
TO M!AIAYSIA
FOR THE
SABAH FORESTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 2, 1985
T doacomeut has a restricted distrilutlem mad maw be umd by recipients guly in- the perfunmmce of
their effidui dutie  lb coulom  may mml uthrwise be ildosd  wthu Wedd Bunk mutoh.dntsm. 



CURRENCT EQUIVALTS
Currency Unit = Ringgirt 0?S)
Average 1984        March 1985
US$1.00                M N$2.40          MY2.50
M$1.00       =        US$0.42              US$0.40
FISCAL YEAR
Federal and Sabah State Governmenc:      January 1 - December 31
FORESTEY MEASURES
1 stere                  =  1 i3 o  stacked roundwood
1 stere fuelwood         =  0.65    of stacked roundwood - m3 Cr)
I stere fuelvood         =  0.50 ton
1 metric ton fuelwood    =  1.33 m3 of stacked roundwood - m 3 (r)
1 metric ton fuelwood    =  2 steres
1 cubic meter fuelwood   =  1.5 steres
1 cubic meter fuelwood   =  0.75 ton
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                        =  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (kn)                   =  0.62 miLes
1 hectare (ha)                     =  Z.47 acres
I square kilometer (kn2)           =  0.386 square miLes
1 kilogram (kg)                    =  2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (mt                   =  2,205 pounds
1 cubic meter (m3)                    35.31 cubic feet
ABBREVIATIONS
FD     -  Forest Department (Sabah State)
SAFODA - Sabah Forestry Development Authority
SF}    -  Sabah Forest Industries



FOIL OFfiaIAL US ONlLY
MArAYSIA
SAME FORESTirY TECICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LAM AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Malaysia
Beneficiary:       Sabah State
Loan Amount:       US$6.5 million equivalent
Terms:             Repayable in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
OnLending
Terms:           The full aount of the loan would be onlent by the Federal
Covernment of Malaysia to Sabah State on the same terms as
the Bank loan. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by
Sabah State which would also provide counterpart financing.
Project
Description:    The project is designed to assist the Sabah State
Covernment to develop a basis for a large scale forestry
resource program in the State. It would help to establish
(i) a 3,000 ha pilot planta:ion of fast-growing light
hardwoods in the Bengkoka area, together with necessary
infrastructure ad managemet services; (ii) an outgrower
schem on triaL basis of about 500 ha to encourage private
farmers to grow trees for sale as pulpwood; and (iii) a
research plantation. It woald also provide consultancy
services for: (i) studies to strengthen forestry research
and development; (ii) transportation studies to establish
economic limits to siting of plantations with respect to
market outlets; (iii) marketing studies to assess the
likely supply and demand for the forest products being
contemplated; (iv) studies of timber utilization and
required processing facilities; and (v) an AnAlysis of
alternative fiscal incentives to encourage private sector
participation in reforestation. Fellowships, totalling
about 12 an-months for forestry staff would be provided to
expose them to overseas operations of special relevance to
the project. Without a reforestation program, exports of
timber would declinew ith lose of foreign exchange and
employment, accompanied by environmmetal degradation. The
project has the usual technical and economic risks
associated with technical assistance and pilot
development. The major risk is that the exotic species to
be planted on a pilot basis would prove unsuitable for use
as high-value wood products such as plywoods and veneers
and that its value as pulp would not pay full costs
Thb dwoumnt * a reUctud diboon and mlay be imud by rmcpits a  uo the perfomce
A dwkoffimidutiL. I _. nonnyayt odwrwisebe dokd wtbht Wodd Bbnka ^wint i



although reforestation with these species may be justified
for watershed protection. However, the studies under the
project would reduce the greacer risk associated with
embarking on a large investment program vithout sufficient
knowLedge anr ..escing of the prospects.
Estimated Project Costs:
Local     Foreign   Total
(US$ '000)
Pilot plantation                              3,880      4,002    7,882
T-ee farming program                            413        117       530
Research plantation                             709        601    1,310
Studies and fellowships                         250        600       850
Project Preparation and
Monitoring Unit                               210         33       243
Total Base Cost                         5,462       5,353   10,815
Physical contingencies                          265        275       540
Price contingencies                             873        872    1,745
Total Project Cost /a                   6,600 /a   6,500   13,100
Financing Plan:                                    Local     Foreign   Total
(Us$ '000)
IBRD                                              -      6,500    6,500
Government of Sabah                           6.600         -      6,600
Total                                      6,600      6,500   13,100
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY        1986       1987      1988       1989
-         T(US$ million)
Annual                    1.1       2.5        1.9       1.0
Cumulative                1.1       3.6        5.5       6.5
/a Including about US$0.4 million in duties and taxes.



- 111 -
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Appraisal Report: Given the technical assistance and pilot nature of the
activities to be undertaken under the proposed project, a
separate staff appraisal report has not been prepared.
Map: IBRD No. 18946



REPORT AND RECO4MENDAION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPET
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA FOR THE SABAH FORESTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recomiendation on a proposed loan
to Malaysia, for the equivalent of US$6.5 million, to help finance the Sabah
Forestry Technical Assistance Project. The loan would have a term of 15
years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
The full amount of the loan would be onlent by Malaysia to Sabah State on the
same terms as the Bank loan. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by
Sabah State.
PART I - THE ECONON!
2.        The latest economic report, "Malaysia: Structural Change and
Stabilization" (No. 4829-MA), was issued on November 15, 1983. This section
reflects, also, the findings of two Bank missions which visited Malaysia in
1984 for a review of public expenditures and domestic resource mobilization.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia's economic performance was
outstanding in the 1970s. The per capita income of US$1,870 in 1983 is among
the highest in Southeast Asia. In the last decade, per capita CDP growth has
averaged about 5.5Z p.a., somewhat higher than the 4X p.a. per capita growth
achieved in the 1960s. This sustained good performance was a reflection of
several factors including the country's wealth in natural resources, especi-
ally ample reserves of cultivable land and oil and gas; an outward-oriented
growth strategy; favorable developments in the world economy; good economic
and financial management; and, not least, stable social and political institu-
tions. Three specific elements have been important: first, substantial
attention and priority has been given to agriculture, resulting in high pro-
ductivity gains in the sector which have cushioned against occasional steep
price declines; second, manufacturing growth has been rapid, at about 12Z
p.a., in the last two decades, following first an import substituting pattern,
but later increasingly oriented towards exports; third, in a very open
economy, with exports and imports recently averaging more than 50Z of GDP,
exports have diversified from an initial large dependence on rubber and tin to
include paLm oil, petroleum and manufactured goods.
4.        Malaysia is a multiracial society with approximately 55Z of the
population indigenous Halays, 35Z Chinese, and the remainder largely Indian.
The country has inheritet deep divisions in the distribution of income between
ethnic communities, and has also been struggling with a serious poverty prob-
lem. The incidence of poverty covers all ethnic groups, but remains dispro-
portionately high among Malays; their average per capita incomes were only
half those of the Chinese community. In 1971, the Government declared a New
Economic Policy (NEP), and accorded the highest priority to eradicating
poverty and reducing the racial imbalances in income, employment, and owner-



ship of assets. Specific quantitative targets, to be achieved by 1990, were
established for these objectives. Particular emphasis has been given to
accelerated growth of the modern sector (i.e., outside traditional agricul-
ture), as about I million jobs (or 90% of all new empLoyment) need to be
created in the non-agricultural sectors during 1985-90.
5.        The Malaysian economy has been undergoing some important structural
changes. Industry has replaced agriculture as the major contributor to GDP
and exporting manufactured goods has replaced import substitution as the cut-
ting edge of industrial growth. In particuLar, there has been a remarkable
and dominating increase in exports of electronic goods over the last 15 years.
Export diversification (particularly through palm oil, petroleum, and more
recently LNG) has proved important, as some of Malaysia's traditional major
foreign exchange earners show signs of flagging vitality. Tin production has
steadily declined in the face of -reak prices. the exhaustion of many mines,
and increasing costs of extraction. Although timber production has recentLy
been buoyant, exploitacion of the resource has led to detrimental environ-
mental consequerces, and the Government has pLans for rescricting logging in
the future. Finally, rubber production has been fluctuating across a
declining trend for several years. WhiLe factors specific to the cultivation
of rubber have been at work, an important reason has been the migration of the
young and educated from the farms to the towns. This has fostered a major
structural change in the Malaysian economy, as it appears that the agricul-
tural labor force may now be peaking in absolute numbers. In turn, this
suggests rather different strategies to be followed in the agricultural sector
in years to come, both to maintain agriculturaL production as well as to
tackle the large extant problem of rural poverty. In recognition of this, the
Government has recently published a policy document to guide future agricul-
tural development -hich takes into account the emerging trends in the sector.
6.        While, in general, the economy has performed well in the last few
years, this progress has been punctuated by periods of occasional diffi-
culty. This has been particuLarly true in the most recent international
commodity price cycle. Between 1977 and 1980, prices for palm oil, rubber,
timber, and petroleum increased rapidly, and export receipts nearly doubled.
The terms of trade improved by about 25% in the same period, and real national
income grew by more than 11 p.a. In 1980, however, the prices of virtually
all of Malaysia's export commodities began to fall and, over the next two
years, the terms of trade declined by more than 8%, representing a loss of
national income of about 5%. Anticipating, in 1980, a short international
recession, the Government introduced a countercyclical fiscal policy, compris-
ing large expenditure increases and tax cuts, in an attempt to maintain domes-
tic income levels. This combination of falling commodity prices and an expan-
sionary fiscal stance led, in 1981 and 1982, to very large fiscal and balance
of payments deficits; thus in 1981-82, the current account deficit on the
balance of payments averaged lIZ of GNP, while the overall public sector
deficit averaged 18% of GNP. Overall CDP growth averaged 6% p.a., and
inflation initially accelerated before falling to 6% in 1982.
7.        To finance these large deficits, the Government had to borrow
heavily, both domestically and abroad. Domestic borrowing was largely non-
inflationary, from the Employees Provident Fund, the national oil company and



the commercial banks. Even so. the ratio of domestic debt to GNP grew from
about 37X to nearly 481 between 1980 and 1982. Increasing proportions of the
deficits had to be financed from abroad, and the level of disbursed public
external debt almost doubled between 1980 and 1982 (from 16Z to 32% of GNP);
there was, in addition, an important shift in the sources of borrowing, away
from project financing towards market borrowings. Because of the low levels
of external borrowing of the previous decade, this surge in the 1980-82 period
has not given rise to a high burden of debt service. As a proportion of
exports, debt service on private, public and publicly-guaranteed MLT debt was
11.9% at the end of 1984.
8.        The unsustainability of deficits of che magnitude experienced in
1981 and 1982 has been clearly recognized by the Government, and a policy of
expenditure restrainc was implemented through 1983-84 and strongly affirmed in
tne 1985 budget. In tae course of 1983-84, development expenditures of the
FederaL Governmenc fell by 20Z, and the federal deiicit was reduced substan-
tially - from 17.8% of GNP in 1982 to 7.1Z in 1984. However, due to a con-
tinuing expansion in expenditures by other parts of the public sector, the
overall public sector deficit did not decrease as snarpLy as the federal
deficit.  In addition, private seccor investment expenditures rose by Z3Z in
real terms, reflecting largely che impact of higher outlays by quasi-public
agencies currently misclassified under the national accounts in this sector../
This offset to an extent the adjustments being made by the Federal Govern-
ment. As a result, the balance of payments current account deficit registered
only a small improvement - declining from 14.42 of GNP in 1982 to 11.7% in
1983. In 1984, the Government exerted greater control over the consolidated
public sector which, combined with continued restrictions on federal govern-
ment spending, helped to improve the current account deficit to the level of
7.32 of GNP.
9.        Assuming a sustained international economic recovery and -ontinued
expenditure restraint by the Government, the fiscal and external deficits of
Malaysia should reach manageable Levels over the medium term. With the heavy
borrowing recently undertaken, and with anticipation of future, albeit lower,
external deficits, the debt service ratio will increase later in the decade.
It is expected , however, to stabilize at acceptable levels (between 15X-20%
of exports). At the same time, the present and ongoing expenditure retrench-
ment, although starting from a highi level, has placed the public investment
budget under strain, and is likely to affect future growth prospects. In this
regard, it is becoming increasingly important for the Government to ensure the
efficiency of the public sector investment program. Recognition -as also been
given by the Government to the need to tackle some of the economy's structural
difficulties. As noted above, a National Agricultural Policy has been
announced. A comprehensive review of development strategy is contained in the
mid-term review of the Fourth Malaysia Plan released in April 1984; among the
initiatives already announced is proposed "privatization" of many public
1/   According to the classification of the Government, major off-budget
agencies like PETRONAS (the petroleum company) and HICON (the heavy
industry corporation) are not included in the public sector.



sector activities. Industrial studies (on export and production incentives)
are being undertaken, in conjunction with the Bank, to ensure the continued
contribution of this important sector co the economy. A series of initiatives
to sustain deveLopment are being discussed in the context of preparations for
the Fifth Malaysia Plan (1981-85), albeit in more difficult financial
circumstances than were foreseen before the onset of the recession.
PART II - BAUK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
10.       The Bank has, to date. made 61 loans to Malaysia. totalling
US$1,606.00 million for projects in agriculture, education, population, power,
water supply, sewerage. teLecommunications, ports, railwavs, roads. and urban
transport. As of March 31. i985. the effective loans to Malaysia heLd by the
Bank amounred to USSI,263.34 million. A total of 40 loans to Malavsia have
been fully disbursed. Annex 11 contains a summary of Bank loans and IFC
investments.
11.       In recent years, the Bank's lending strategy towards Malaysia has
aimed at assisting the Government to alleviate poverty in the country. The
Government's thrust in this area has been twofold: first, to maintain a high
overall rate of growth for the economy and thus facilitate and encourage a
labor shift from low to higher wage occupations; second, to raise the produc-
tivity and incomes of farmers directly through a variety of agricultural
projects and programs as most poverty is concentrated in the rural areas. The
Bank has been associated with both aspects of this strategy - by assisting the
Government to overcome impediments to growth (for example, by lending for
vocational education and for power) and also by lending for a long sequence of
agricultural projects. These have indeed enjoyed major success in raising the
incomes of beneficiaries, substantially increasing the foreign exct.ange earn-
ings of the country, and contributing to a high economy-wide growth.
12.       MaLv-sia's commitment to assist its low-income groups has not
diminished in the wake of the recent economic difficulties. As noted, these
difficulties are in part structural, fostered by very rapid and successful
development, and in part financial, resulting from the recession and internal
countercyclical policies. Tackling these problems, which entail tight fiscal
and foreign exchange constraints likely to persist for some time, has become
the dominant objective of economic management.
13.       In its lending strategy, the Bank intends to continue lending to
agriculture and thus tackle poverty directly. At the same time, recognizing
the changed economic situation and prospects, and responding to a Government
request, the Bank is also assisting in sectors where serious structural
problems or institutional deficiencies exist.  Thus, the Bank plans to lend to
such sectors as education, transport, power, water supply, and industry, and
thus to make a wore diversified as well as substantial contribution to
alleviating Halaysia's balance of payments and fiscal constraints over the
medium term.



14.       Although overall implementation of Bank-financed projects in
Malaysia has been satisfactory, it has recently been seriously affected by the
country's budgetary constraints. This has also been reflected in project dis-
bursements, which dropped from US$111 miLlion in FY82 and US$137 miLLion in
FY83 to US$87 million in FY84. Disbursement performance, measured in terms of
che rates of actual disbursements to cumulative undisbursed amounts. was 0.19
in FY82, 0.22 in FY83 and 0.14 in FY84 (compared to regional averages of 0.19,
0.20, and 0.20, respectively, in the same years).
15.       Apart from lack of counterpart funding, the major probLems causing
disbursement delays in Malaysia are: deLays in project start-up due to
manpower shortages and time-consuming land acquisition procedures. and the
Limited capacity of the Public Works Department and the local contracting
industry. To improve the situation, the Bank has held various project imple-
mentation reviews with the central and implementing agencies in Kuala Lumpur.
These reviews and the corrective action taken by the agencies subsequently
should have a positive impact on project implementation and disbursements. In
this respect, the recent approval of project restructuring and/or increased
dis'ursement rates for five agricultural projects under the SAP should be of
considerable help. In addition, further reviews will be undertaken with the
MalaysiAn authorities when necessary. It is also proposed to reinforce the
implementation reviews with occasional seminars on disbursements and procure-
ment (a disbursement seminar was arranged in June 1982 and a procurement
seminar was conducted in March 1983, both in Kuala Lumpur) for the benefit of
the implementing agencies.
16.       IFC has made six investments in Malaysia totalling US$21.19 million.
The total investments held by IFC, as of March 31, 1985, amounted to US$12.50
million (Annex II).
17.       As noted earlier, at end-1983, Malaysia's debt service ratio on
public and publicly guaranteed debt was about 11%. In the same year, debt
service on Bank obligations constituted about 6% of total debt service. With
the rapid increase in market borrowings in the last three years, the propor-
tion of Bank disbursed debt in total disbursed debt has fallen from about 15Z
in 1979-80 to less than 9X at end-1983. Various projections, on a variety of
assumptions, suggest that the Eank share in debt service and total disbursed
debt of Malaysia is likely to remain welL below 102 through the rest of the
decade.
PART III - THE SABAH FORESTRY SUB-SECTOR
Resource Base
18.       The agricultural sector plays a dominant role in the Malaysian
economy, though its relative importance is declining as the country proceeds
toward industrialization. The sector accounts for about 23% of GDP, 40% of
merchAndise exports and 35Z of employment. In the 1960s and early 1970s
agriculture grew at 7% p.s., but since 1976, growth slowed to an average 5.5Z
p.a. during 1976-80 and to 3.7% p.a. during 1981-84. Agricultural production



- 6 -
has been primarily export-oriented. Malaysia is the world's largest producer
and exporter of rubber and palm oil, supplying about 40X of the world's
naturaL rubber output and palm oil production. Its contribution to world
exports is about 45% for natural rubber and 70% for paLm oil. Malaysia is
also a major exporter of wood. Forestry is of great importance to the
Malaysian ecc..rmy, particularly in terms of its si.are in exports and its role
in providing revenues to the state gov rnments within the federaL syste .
Production of saw logs (36.7 billion m ) and sawn timber (7.1 million m ) were
valued at about US$3 billion in 1983. (Annex IV).   The two products earned
US$1.7 bilLion in foreign exchange in 1983, or 12% of total Malaysian
exports. Of this, Sabah State contributed US$780 million, i.e., about 50%.
Forest product exports rank fourth in value among Malaysian exports after
petroLeum, rubber, and palm oil. Production of logs and timber declined in
198" as a result of relatively depressed export demand and of forest
cons..rvation policy.  Of Malaysian production, Sabah produces 35%, Sarawak
33%, with the baLance originating in Penisular MaLaysia.
19.       The development of Sabah has, in recent decades, been closeLy
associated with the rapid expansion of the state's timber industry, which has
provided the bulk of the state's revenues. It has stimulated the construction
of basic transportation and communications infrastructure, and served as the
basis for establishment of plywood veneer and sawmilling industries. Of the
export earnings of wood products from Sabah in 1982, 91% came from round log
exports, 7X from sawn timber, and the remainder from plywood and veneer. In
1983, Sabah State forestry revenues totaled US$340 million, 20% below the 1979
level, but still accounting for 60% of the total state revenues in 1983.
Forest-based industries are the single largest source of commercial employment
in Sabah.
20.       Sabah's natural forests, covering some 5 million ha, have been
heavily exploited in the past, at rates in excess of their sustainable annual
yield. If the forests remaining under state government control were to be
managed on a long term sustainable basis, the annual cut would be about 3-4
million m3 a year. By contrast, actIaL log removaLs over the last decade have
been running at about 8-10 million m . Even allowing for the fact that some
of this has been derived from clear felling of forests being converted to
agriculture, the leveL of re-investment in forest management has been nowhere
near that needed to ensure sustainable production from the remaining forests.
21.       The natural hardwoods of Sabah require relatively long rotations
(60-80 years) to produce merchantable timber. WiSh known forest management
technologies, they cannot produce more than 2-3 m of wood increment a year
(less than one-tenth of the increment that can be achieved with fast-growing
plantation species).  Escalation of current levels of investment in plantation
forestry will be essential if Sabah is to maintain a timber export trade of
the same order of magnitude that has been achieved in recent years.
22.       During the last decade, Sabah's forestry agencies have had experi-
ence in the planting of fast-growing exotic species. The private sector is
represented by four major joint-venture firms that harvest, process and export
timber. Only one of these, Sabah Softwoods, is involved in reforestation.
Sabah Softwoods commenced its plantation development program in L974 and, by
1980, had planted about 25,000 ha of various species, including 10,000 ha of



Eucalyptus deglupta, 8.000 ha of Albizia falcataria, 5,000 ha of Gmelina
arborea, and 2,000 ha of the original softwood species, Pinus caribaea. The
switch from softwoods to light hardwoods was dictated by the much lower
average establishment cost experienced (about US$800/ha for hardwoods against
US$1,500 ha for the more densely planted pines), the highSr growth rates
(25-40 m /ha underbark mean annual increment against 17 m /ha or less for
pine), and the wider range of end uses for the hardwoods. Most of the hard-
woods are now planned to be harvested on a rotation of 10-15 years to produce
a combination of saw logs, veneer logs, and pulpwood.
23.       Enough technical experience has been gained to support proceeding
with a larger-scale hardwood planting program, based on Albizia and Cmelina
species.  However, further research work is needed on Acacia mangiu r(ian
extremely fast-growing leguminous medium-hardwood tree of Australian origin)
and other species to widen the range of potential plantation timbers. If the
results are satisfactorv, the Covernment of Sabah plans to establish about
250,000 ha of fast-growing plantations by the year 2000.
Institutions
24.       The main institutions involved in forestry development in Sabah,
apart from the private sector, are the Forest Department, the Sabah Founda-
tion, Sabah Forest Industries, and the Sabah Forestry Development Authority,
which play different, but complementary, roles.
25.       The Forest Department (FD) is part of the Government of Sabah, and
operates under the Chief Minister's Department. The head of the department is
the Conservator of Forests, with headquarters at Sandakan. At the end of
1982, the FD had about 1,000 employees, including approximately 60 senior
staff. The FD is responsible for the management of the state's forestry
reserves and forested state land, including revenue collection from forestry
activities, forestry research, the scaling and grading of export logs,
wildlife management, monitoring of all forestry exploitation, and other
related activities.
26.       Forestry research is carried out at Sepilok near Sandakan by the
research branch of the FD, which is divided into a forest research division,
with sections on botany, ecology, silviculture, plantations, seed, tree
improvement, and soil science, and a forest products research division, with
sections on forest utilization, wood technology, entomology, and biometrics.
Game and wild-life management also fall under the FD, which manages an
orangutan rehabilitation center at Sepilok.
27.       Professional forestry officers receive their university level
degrees at the Agricultural University in Peninsular Malaysia, or at overseas
institutions. At the diploma level, state scholarships are avarded to serving
officers to attend forestry course at the branch campus of the Agricultural
University in Kuching, Sarawak. The forest training school at Sepilok offers
a 10-month certificate course for about 30 forest technicians per year.
28.       The Sabah Foundation is a statutory agency, established in 1966,
with the objective of utilizing revenues from commercial forestry activities



- 8 -
for the social and educational oenefit of the residents of the State. It
sponsors numerous educational (inciuding overseas fellowship) and health
(including flying doctor) programs with revenues from its logging concessions,
which also provide capital for investment in forestry plantations. The
Foundation holds a 100-vear License agreement to 8,700 km2 in southern
Sabah. The annual timber cut and export managed by the Foundation (over
I mmlii,m  in 1982) exceed 1ZZ of total state production. So far, the
Fo.mdation has made arrangements for four joint ventures in wood processing,
shippina , and plantations based on reforestation with fast-growin, exotic
species. The plantations joint venture - Sabah Softwoods - represents a 60%
equity investment by the Foundation and a 40Z share by the North Borneo
Timbers Company. Sabah Softwoods' plantations are being established in 60.000
ha of logged-over land, obtained on a long-term lease ,v the subsidiarv
company. About 45.000 ha of the leasehold are now considered suitable for
tree plantations.
29.       The Sabah Forest Industries Sdn. Bhd. (SFI) is a zovernment-owned
company, wbich has prime responsibility for construction and operation of
Malaysia's first integrated sawa lumber/plywood/pulp and paper mill (the
latter with a capacity of 120,000 tons per annum capacity). This enterprise,
wh.ich is under construction at Sipitang, has been allocated a timber
concession area, and will extract pulpwood from the natural forest. It plans
to reforest cut-over areas with fast-growing pulpwood plantations.
30.       The Sabah Forestry Development Authority (SAFODA), created by a
state statute in 1976, has developed into Sabah's sociaL-oriented forestry
agency, although it still has an organizational objective of self-financing
through semi-commercial forestry ventures. Its major operational activities
have been to convert wasteland, particularly formerly forested areas impover-
ished by shifting cultivation, excessive logging, and soil erosion, to produc-
tive forestry use; and to promote employment and widespread participation of
rural population (largely shifting cultivators) in reforestation and sustain-
able forestry programs.
31.       Despite serious shortages of professionalLy qualified stzff, SAFODA
has managed to initiate a series of innovative and inherently difficult pro-
grams. These included reforestation of denuded hillsides along Sabah's west
coast and the eastern (interior) slopes of the Crocker Range. Of nearly
50,000 ha of the planned development areas, over 13,000 ha have been planted
over the past three years, mainly with Acacia mangium. These plantations have
shown encouraging growth and survival rates, and are making visible contribu-
tions to the stabilization of some of Sabah's most ecologically impoverished
areas.
32.       One of the main areas being reforested bZ SAFODA is the Bengkoka
Peninsula in the north of Sabah, covering 1,200 km of gently undulating land
of low agricultural potential. About 30Z of the Peninsula retains some forest
cover. The rest has been removed through logging and shifting agriculture in
favored locations. Agriculture covers less than 10% of this area. For
severaL years, SAFODA has been developing an integrated settlement/forestry
program in that region based on planting Acacia mangi . About 800 ha have
been planted, and the State Government planned to raise it to 35,09o  ha over 5



years, with the assistance of the Bank. A reforestation and settLement
project was prepared for Bank consideration.
33.       The Bank reviewed this proposal.  However, on the basis of
inconclusive tests regarding the likely quality and marketability of wood
produced for Acacia mangium, the Bank advised SAFODA and Sabah State in 1984
that large-scale investment in the area should be deferred pending completion
of comprehensive studies and further tests.  The Bank, while agreeing that,
viewed as a part of a long-term state-wide plantation development program, the
Bengkoka area has had good potential, felt that more information would be
needed on the selling prices of sawn wood, veneer and pulpwood from Acacia
mangi   plantations, before proceeding with full-scaLe development.  With the
Sabah Government's agreement, therefore, the proposed technical assistance
project has been prepared to evaluate past experimentation with Acacia mangium
plantations and to test their crop's quality, utilization properties and
likely value in the marketplace.
Sabah Forestry Development Program
34.       To conserve and develop its forest resources, Sabah State plans to
involve SAFODA, Sabah Foundation, SFI, and a number of private sector com-
panies, together with its own FD, in a national forest amnagement and
reforestation program. Because of the uncertainty involved in marketing of
the products of fast-growing species such as Acacia mangium, however, the
program has to be separated into three phases, as listed beLow, and be
implemented as justified by preparatory surveys and feasibility work:
(a) Under Phase I (1985-89), a pilot technical assistance project would
be implemented to develop 3,000 ha of Acacia mngiu  plantations in
Bengkoka for experimentation and testing. The project would also
provide for a review of past plantation performance in other parts
of Sabah State, potential future planting areas, and would carry out
vxarious marketing, economic, and other project-reLated studies
needed before launching future larger-scale planting and forest
management programs. The results of the studies under Phase I would
determine the size, composition, and location of investments to be
made under the subsequent phases.
(b) Under Phase II (1988-92), efforts would be made to introduce more
systematic management techniques into about 2.5 million ha of
national forests in Sabah State under FD control, and, assuming
favorable results under Phase I, to establish 80,000 ha of
plantations by approximately doubling the 1987 rate of reforestation
(from 10,000 to. 20,000 ha per year). Infrastructure and
organizational capability for a sustained large-scale planting
program in the 1990s would also be developed.



- io -
(c) Under Phase [II (1993-2000), together with continuing management and
protection of 2.i million ha of national forests, a 250,000 ha plan-
tation program would be completed, and new industrial processing
capacity for manufacture of pulp, lumber, and plywood would be
developed.
35.       To ensure implementation of the proposed development program in a
consistent manner, combining private and public sector incerests, Sabah State
has recently established a Sabah Forestry Council in which the State
Department of Development, FD, Sabah Foundation, SFI, SAFODA, and private
sector companies are represented. The Council will advise the Government on
effective policies for successful implementation of the program, and will
harmonize vatious public and private objectives and interests. The 'ormation
of the Council is an important step towards successful implementation of the
State's forestry development program.
The Bank's Role
36.       The proposed project would be the second in the subsector financed
by the Bank. The Jengka Forestry Project (Loan 673-HA) for US$8.5 million was
signed in May 1970 and closed, fully disbursed, in December 1974. The project
was part of the Jengka Triangle land settlement program (Loans 533, 672, and
885-MA) and its objective was to improve the recovery and utilization of
timber removed under the settlement operation. A government corporation was
established to manage the project which consisted of Ci) a sawmill, (ii) a
plywood mill, (iii) logging equipment, and (iv) necessary admyistration
quarters and equipment. The Project Performance Audit Report= concluded that
the project failed to reach a satisfactory rate of return because of manage-
ment deficiencies, inadequate technical assistance, poor marketing arrange-
ments, and deficiencies in factory design. Since then, the Bank had not been
associated with the forestry sector in Malaysia in view of the limited inter-
est shown at both federal and state levels in integrated forest management
programs.  However, both the Federal and Sabah State Governments have now
become concerned about excessive exploitation of the country's forestry
resources (para. 56) and have expressed interest in Bank assisrance for
forestry development. The Bank, in this particular case, ar. play a role by
helping the Sabah Government to conduct a comprehensive study and testing of
its available resources and their potential for future marketability, before
proceeding with major investment programs. When the case for such investments
is proven, the Bank can be effective in the fields of project formulation.
finance and execution. In addition, the Bank can help the authorities in
taking measures to protect and manage the remaining areas of Sabah's natural
forests, including setting aside a part of them as permanent biotic reserves
and national parks. The Asian Development Bank has recently made a loan of
US$24.5 million to Malaysia for a reforestation project (about 13,000 ha per
annum) in Peninsular Malaysia. The Bank is discussing with the Federal
Government the possibility of complementary Bank assistance for a project
2/   PPAR, No. 2119.



- II -
including natural forest conservation, forest research, and developmnet of
fast-growing plantations in Peninsular Nalaysia.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The project, wh.ich follows the agreement reached between the Federal
and Sabah State Governments and the Bank (para. 33) on forestry development in
Sabah, was prepared by SAFODA with Bank assistance. Negotiarions -were neLd in
Kuala Lumpur during March 1985; che Malaysian delegation was led by ?fr.Yahya
Yaacob, Deputy Secretary of the Treasury (Finance Division). Supplementary
project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objective and Description
38.       The project would serve to provide essential information:  Ci) on
the technical and financial feasibility of large-scale plantation development
in the Bengkoka area of Sabah State based on fast-growing species, and
(ii) for an optimum statewide forestry development program and policies. It
would include:
(a) establishment of a 3,000 ha pilot Acacia Mangiuu plantation in
Bengkoka (SAFODA);
(b) development of 500 ha of cash crop tree farming by private farmers
for production of pulpwood (SFI);
(c) research and development work on a 500 ha research pLantation in
support of expanded forestry development (FD);
(d) about 116 man-months of consultancy services for several technical,
economic and marketing studies to evaluate the potential for a large
statewide reforestation program (State Department of Development);
(e) about 12 man-months of fellowships for overseas training (State
Department of ievelopment); and
(f) establishment of a Project Preparation and Monitoring Unit in the
State Department of Development.
The details are presented below and are sumnarized in the Project and Loan
Summary.
39.       Pilot Plantation.  This major project component, estimated to cost
about US$7.9 million, excluding contingencies, would provide for establishment
of a sound organization and management team to plant and manage 3,000 ha of
plantations consisting of fast-growing species. It would place special empha-
sis on training of forest workers on matters such as site selection, soil
management (fertilizer application), improved nursery stock, development of
efficient planting methods, initiation of pruning trials, and installation of
an effective fire protectiorn system.



- 12 -
40.       For improving the quality of Acacia mangium sawLogs and veneer logs,
the project wouLd provide for the use of tree breeding, pruning, and
thinning. The crop would be silviculturally treated for production of sawlogs
and peelers from the outset, so that it could be grown on a longer rotation
instead of being harvested as a pulpwood crop. Marketing, timber utLlization,
and economic studies to be carried out under the project (para. 44) would give
a basis for deciding on what scale further planting in the Bengkoka area would
be economically justified and be continued.
41.       The plantation-grown Acacia mangium saw logs and peeler logs would
be tested as to their quality and marketabilitv. Because of the current
uncertainties (para. 33), a marketing agreement would be concluded by SAFODA
with SFI for the latter's purchase of all of the output as pulpwood. This
agreement would ensure that, in the event that experiments in the next three
years indicate that production of acceptabLe quality saw Logs and peeler logs
is still in doubt, the 3,000 ha plantation could be operated as a souLrce of
pulpwood on a sustained yield basis. The signing or such an agreement between
SAFODA ani SFI would be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank Loan (ref.
Section 5.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
42.       Tree Farming.  The pulp mill under construction at Sipitang would
initially use standing forest for raw material with large-scale plantation
grown timber contributing as it matures. It is proposed to involve private
smallholders by encouraging them to plant suitable tree species as a supple-
mentary cash crop on their unutilized farmland that is too sceep or infertile
for annual cropping. In order to test the concept which has proven successfuL
in the Philippines, the project would provide for the planting of 500 ha of
appropriate tree species on private farms within the economic sphere of
influence of the pulp mill. SFI would plant blocks of up to 10 ha each,
without cost recovery, on private farms, to stimulate farmer interest. Under
the studies component (para. 44), a study would be made concurrently of the
prospects for expanding smallholder tree farming. The study would include an
assessment of land tenure, the level of stumpage prices needed to provide
farmers with the necessary incentive to enter into tree farming, the possi-
bility of negotiating firm market contracts with established forest indus-
tries, the scope for channelling credit via the local development bank to
participating farmers, and the likely need for the extension services sup-
port. The tree farming trials would cost US$530,000 for the cost of seed-
lings, fertilizer, fencing, management and labor (details are provided in
Annex VI). The Government of Sabah would submit for the Bank's approval a
detailed implementation plan and schedule before disbursement of the loan
funds for this component (ref. Schedule 1,(3)(b) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).  If successful, an expanded tree farming component may be included in a
second-phase forestry development program (para. 34).
43.       Research and Development.  To provide basic support for an expandec
forestry program, there is need for substantial research and development. The
project would include US$1.3 million (without contingencies) for creation of a
500 ha research and development plantation to be established by the FD in
Segaliud Lokan Forest Reserve. The work program would consist of Long-term
research which would include assessment of the likely impact of the program on
the environment (e.g., water catchment areas) and operational research includ-



- 13 -
ing tree improvement programs and development of seed orchards and supplies of
improved planting material. Efforts would be made to associate the private
forestry sector in operational research work.  Depending on the response of
private industries, consideration would be given at a later stage to creation
of a special Research and Development Institute for forest plantation tree
crops (analogous to those which already exist in the region for oil palm and
rubber).
44.       Studies.  The project would provide US$750,000 (without contin-
gencies) for several studies in the fields of transportation, marketing,
processing, economic and financial incentives, site selection and survey, tree
farming, natural forest resources management and research and development.
The scope, terms of reference and schedule for execution of the studies would
be agreed with the Bank (Schedule 2(8)6 of the draft Project kgreement).
Summaries of these studies are given in Annex VII.
45.       Fellowships.  The project would include a sum of US$100,000 (without
contingencies) to cover the costs of about 1Z man-months of short term
fellowships for Sabah forestry and forest industry staff to visit overseas
operations of special relevance to the Sabah forest program (e.g., the
Philippines' PICOP smaLlholder tree farming scheme assisted by the Bank), and
large-scale plantation operations in countries such as Brazil, New Zealand,
Australia, Nigeria, Ivory Coast, and the Cameroons. The purpose of each
fellowship and the selection criteria would be reviewed by the Bank (Schedule
2(B)(7) of the draft Project Agreement).
46.       With provision of US$243,000 (without contingencies) under the
project, a Project Preparation and M4onitoring Unit would be established as a
Technical Office within the State Department of Development, to prepare the
technical basis for reforestation policies and projects. Establishment of the
Unit would be a condition of loan effectiveness (ref. Section 5.01(c) of the
draft Loan Agreement). The unit would monitor the progress of the tests and
studies and incorporate their interim and final results into the preparation
of Sabah's second-phase forestry development program (para. 34). Such a
second-phase program would aim to build up the necessary infrastructure and
management organization needed to sustain an annual planting program of
approximately 20,000 ha per year throughout the 1990s. It is anticipated that
the Sabah Foundation, SAFODA, SFI and private farmers and companies would
assume responsibilities for plantings within their respective areas of
activity.  The scope of such responsibilities would be determined later with
regard to the outcome of the studies to be carried out under the proposed
technical assistance project.
Project Costs and Financing
47.       Total project costs would amount to about US$13.1 million including
about US$0.4 million of taxes and duties. Physical contingencies have been
calculated at lOZ of the cost of the pilot commercial plantation and the
research plantation. Price contingencies have been calculated at 5Z for 1985
and 7.5Z for 1986, and 8Z thereafter for both local and foreign costs.
Detailed costs are given in Annex VI.



- 14 -
48.       The proposed Bank loan of US$6.5 million would finance the project's
foreign exchange costs, or 48Z of total costs. The loan would be made to the
Federal Government for 15 years, including 3 years of grace. at the standard
variable interest rate. The full amount of the loan would be onlent to Sabah
State on the same terms as the Bank loan. Sabah State would bear the foreign
exchange risk. Signing of a satisfactory Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
Malaysia and Sabah State would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section
5.01(a)) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Bank would sign a Project
Agreement with Sabah State to cover project amplementation.
rmplementation
49.       The project would be implemented during the period 1985-1988 under
general direction of the State Department of Development through the Project
Preparation and Monitoring Unit (para. 46). SAFGDA would implement the pilot
commercial plantation at Bengkoka to be developed around its existing nucleus
forest plantings. A consultant management team, to be provided under the
project, wculd assist SAFCDA's existing plantation management team in this
venture. The consultants would be responsible for project management, advise
SAFODA and the State Government on institutional development of the agency,
and program and execute the training of SAFODA counterpart staff. The latter
would be part of the project management staff and would eventually replace the
counsultants. Signing of a satisfactory management contract with acceptable
consultants would be a condition of loan effectiveness (ref. Section 5.01(d)
of the draft Loan Agreement). SFI wouid manage the project's tree farming
component. The FD would be responsibLe for the research and development
plantation on the Segaliud Lokan Forest Reserve. The studies to be financed
under the project would be carried out by consultants under the direction of
the Project Preparation and Monitoring Unit.
Procurement
50.       Nursery establishment, forest planting and maintenance operations
estimated to cost about US$7.85 million, including contingencies, would be
carried out by force account or by local procurement procedures which are
satisfactory to the Bank. Construction of roads, buildings and water supply
and minor works, valued at about US$3.0 million including contingencies, would
involve estimated contract sizes of less than US$1 million each, and is not
likely to interest foreign bidders, although they would not be excluded.
These works would be executed through local competitive bidding procedures
which are satisfactory to the Bank.
51.       Equipment and vehicles, totaling US$0.75 million in cost, including
contingencies, would, to the extent practicable, be grouped into appropriate
bid packages and be procured by international competitive bidding procedures
in accordance with the Bank guidelines. In bid comparisons, a margin of
preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of imported goods, or the
actual customs duties and import taxes, whichever is less, would be allowed
for domestic manufacturers. Miscellaneous items of goods grouped in packages
estimated to cost not more than the equivalent of US$50,000 each and not more
than the equivalent of US$400,000 in the aggregate, may be procured on the
basis of prudent shopping after receiving a minimum of three price quotations.



- 15 -
52.       Internationally-recruited consultants, estimated to cost about
US$1.5 million, including contingencies, would be selected in accordance with
the Bank guidelines. The costs have been estimated on the basis of approxi-
mately US$10,000 per man-month. Employment of consultants and terms-of
reference wculd be satisfactory to the Bank.
53.       Contract Reviews.  All bidding packages for works and goods over
US$300,000 million equivalent would be subject to the Bank's prior review.
Smaller contracts would be subject to selective post-award review. All
contracts for consultants would be subject to the Bank's prior review.
Disbursement
54.       The loan would be disbursed against the usual documentation as
follows: (a) 5OZ of total expenditures for plantations, tree farming,
establishment and maintenance costs; (b) 10OZ of foreign exchange cost of
directly-imported equipment, machinery, vehicles and materials, and 65Z of
cost of those which are locally procured; and (c) 100% of total expenditures
for consultants' services and fellowships. All disbursements would be
documented, excepting expenditures on plantation establishment and
maintenance, which would be submitted under statements of expenditure, and the
relevant documents would be retained at the project office to be available for
review by the Bank staff. As detailed in Annex V, the loan is expected to be
disbursed over the period 1985-89. No major delay in disbursements is
expected because of the high priority attached to the project by the Sabah
Government and the readiness of preparation of the main participants in the
project execution. Because of the unusual nature of this project and its
short duration, historical disbursement profiles are not applicable.
Provision has been made for retroactive financing of expenditures made after
April 1, 1985 up to 10% of the loan amount.
Accounts and Audit
55.       SAFODA, which would implement the largest project component, would
maintain separate project accounts. It is subject to the Sabah State legis-
lation and, as such, prepares annual statements of accounts which are audited
by the Auditor-General of Malaysia. SAFODA's financial staff include an expa-
triate senior accountant, a local accountant, four accounting officers, and
nine clerical staff. This staff complement would assist the project manage-
ment consultant team to establish and maintain a separate accounting system
for the plantation component of the project (ref. Schedule 2,B(2) of the draft
Project Agreement). The project accounts would be audited annually by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank. The audit reports, together with
certified copies of the audited accounts and auditor's observations, would be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Each audit report would include, as applicable, a separate opinion as to
whether satisfactory procedures relating to the use of Statements of
Expenditure were complied with.



- 16 -
Economic Justification
56.       The proposed project, which is conceived as the first phase of a
three-phase forestry development program (para. 34), has to be considered
within the context of Sabah State's declining natural forest resources and the
likely impact of the decline on the country's econcmic development and well
being. If a satisfactory plantation program is not implemented, log
availability across She natu-al forests would decline from the present level
of about 8 million m to less than 5 million m by 1995. Foreign exchange
earnings from sales of forest products (currently amounting to about US$650
million) could fall to less than US$400 million, and would continue to decline
thereafter, with negative implications for both economic development and rural
welfare. Urgent measures are needed to protect and manage the remagining areas
of natural forest and to develop compensatory resources through establishment
of plantations. Implementation of these policies will require heavy invest-
ment by the State of Sabah. The proposed project would be of value in leading
the Government to sound investment decisions and well-conceived development
policies. The project would provide the Federal and Sabah State Governments
with the necessary data for deciding upon the optimal management and
development of Sabah's forest resources for commercial exploitation and for
environmental protection.
57.       Long-term market prospects for Sabah-grown plantation wood appear
good, but need to be established. Assuming that the proposed project confirms
the viability of the long-term development plan, the creation of a 250,000 ha
plantation resource, combined with effective protection and management
measures in 2.5 million ha of natural forests, may hold the promise for Sabah
to sustain export earnings in excess of US$1 billion per year beyond the year
2000, of which about half would come from natural forests and the balance from
plantation forests.  Plantation logs would provide raw material for an
additional ov0,000 tons of pulp and paper capacity and about 1.0 million m3 of
additional sawn lumber/plywood capacity.
Project Risks and Environmental Impact
58.       As a pilot-scale technical assistance scheme, aimed at developing
technical and economically viable approaches to industrial forest management
and plantation development, U.C project has an inherent risk that it may not
lead to a satisfactory technical package for production of sawlogs and peeler
quality material. This risk would be taken into account by ensuring an alter-
native, but less attractive, marketing arrangement for providing the use of
the project output as pulpwood (para. 41). The project's environmental impact
would u  positive, since it would not only support reforestation on l1gged
areas susceptible to erosion, but also provide for protection of remaining
natural forests.



- 17 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUHMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Malaysia, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and Sabah State, and the report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
60.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions c- ffectiveness of the proposed loan
includ: (a) a subsidiary loan agreement shall have been signed between
Malaysia and Sabah State; (b) a Project Preparation and Monitoring Unit shall
have been established; (c) consultants to assist in management of the pilot
plantation component of the project shall have been employed; and (d) an
agreement shall have been signed between SAFODA and SFI for the purchase of
pulpwood (ref. Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan compiies with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       r recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
May 2, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 18 -   .                                    ANNEX I
.L ALLL                                     Pate   of 5
lS~ ~ ~ QOF twT              m UC) n)
~~~(M    am=MDU_
inca  such      -mNo                       ncm          gm
,6f        197 L- 1g         7      ^su a  meIP            LuS. M 
TOTa                                 t.         329.6    329.*
ACEZCULRAL                           34.6        " 6       43.6
cm   R cm=2 Cm"                        240.0       440.0   38O.o a)           1091.2                   2106.6
mw ainra              cair
usa UMer OIL mmcvahrn)              614.0       455.0    SI.O               567.3                    "s.
NeweL  a  ma anln.
roPInIOR.XID-VA  (UaOunDs)         6205.0    10863.0  14528.0
Unm  POPULATION CZ Or ITaM           25.2        27.0      30.2              3.7 ;.5
nrOuLanon  ma
POULTYON IN        2a00  (HILL)                          20.5
STATIONUS FONUUION (HILL)                                33.0
PODULATION tlSflt                                         L.A
roruMtlfl DESITY
PER SQ. M.                         Z4.9        32.9      43.1             261.9                     35.7
E  SQ. CM. ACRI. LAND             235.5       273.2    325.5             1735.1                     92.4
POUuLATion AE STRuCTURE (C)
0-14 us                           45.1        45.4      39.6              39.0                     39.9
15-64 tRS                          51.2        51.5      54.8              57.6                     56.0
65 SMD ABOVE                        3.6         3.1       3.5               3.3                      4.1
POPULATIOR OTII RATE (2)
TOTAL                               2.7         2.8       2.4               2.3                      2.4
UDAN                                6.9         3.5       3.4               4.3                      3.4
C,lU1  BIRTH RATE (PE  MNOS)         ".3         35.7      29.1              30.1                     31.3
CRUDE DEATH IRATE (R THOUS)          14.9         9.2       4.4               9.5                      6.1
GROSS  EPRODUCTDW RATE                3.4         2.6       1.7               2.0                      2.0
FAICLY PLAIu1hG
ACCUTORS. AHINAL (TINCU)             ..        56.0       1.1 
USERS (Z OF MARRIED UCK)             ..        33.0 Ic     .               52.7                     40.3
J10 AM aOl
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-41-100)                        55.0        99.0    150.0              123.0                    114.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES 2 oF RaQUIREB TS)         107.0      114.0    121.0              114.4                    110.6
ROTEINS (CAS PER DMY)              49.0        52.0      60.0              57.0                     67.3
or wHICH ANDIAL AND PULSE         17.0       18.0      23.0 /d           14.1                     34.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) CEATH RATE           7.5         3.4       1.7               7.2                      5.7
lALNI
LIFE EXPECT- AT *IITH (WEARS)        53.9        61.2     66.7               60.4                    64.7
INFANirT OrT. RATE (PE  THOUS)       72.4        45.6     29.3               64.3                     60.6
ACCESS 2O SAFE WATER (ZPOP)
TLL.L                                ..        29.0      62.0 Is           37.0                     65.4
UnR                                  ..       100.0      93.07             54.6                     7S.I
RURAL                                ..         1.0      49.0 To           26.4                     46.2
ACCESS TO LXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATLON)
TrAL                                 ..        59.0      60.0 If           41.3                     52.9
URBAN                                ..       1.0    1o.o 7F               47.4                     67.0
RURAL                                ..        43.0      43.0 71           33.3                     24.5
POPULATION ER PHYSICIAN            70bO.0      4310.0   7910.0 2d          7749.4                   1917.7
POP. PER NURSINC PERSON            1800.0      1120.0    940.0 72          2460.4                    615.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                             270.0       290.0    300.0 2t          1044.2                    367.2
UaRli                             110.0       140.0        ..             651.2                    411.5
RURAL                            5710.0      1760.0        ..            2594.6                   2616.3
AUHISSlONS PER HSPITAL bED             ..        1864      17.2 It           27.0                     27.3
lSUSIN
AVERSAE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..         5.6 
URBIAN                               ..         5.9 
RURAL                                ..         S.j
AVERASE NO. OF PERSONISIWOMN
TOTAL                                *-         2.6 I
URBAN                                ,          2.3       ...
RURAL                                ..         2.68
ACCESS 10 ELECT. (I OF UJELLIBGS)
TOTAL                                ..        43.4        ..
URBAN                                ,         64.7        .                                          '
RURAL                                3'         0 1
a) $1870 in 1983



- 19                                           ANNEX I
TAaLE 34                                          Pate 2 of 5
NOR                     - IOCIML SUCK04 ,Uc D     JT    EL
MOST                      (MM  11  ? ISTINAT
1960       1970aL! maT _             ltha Ax PCIFIC         IAT. A1C  A  A
ADJUSTED ERLLNENT RATIOK
PRInAl,  TOTAL                      96.0        37.0      92.0              102.0                     105.4
ALE                     10.0          1.0      5.0               105.                      106.3
lilE                     s 63.       34.0      51.3               9S.2                     104 5
SECOflARYs TOTAL                    19.0        34.0      55.0               46.0                      43.2
KAUE                     25.0        40.0      51.0               48.7                      42.3
*                                 PENUE                    13.0         23.0     53.0               43.1                      44.5
VOCATIONAL (1 0  SECONDARY)           4.6         2.9       1.7               17.5                      33.6
PUPL-TgACR RATIO
-PRIMARY                            23.0        31.0      26.0               31.8                      30.1
s3103841Y                           25.0        25.0      23.0               23.5                      16.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE CZ)               52.3 lb     51.5      60.0               72.9                      75.5
PAUsWOR CASS/TuOMUAND POP             11.8        21.9      42.6 1             10.1                      4.0
RADIO R9RVERSOUSD POP                 36.5        39.6    144.2               113.                      225.6
TV RRIVERS/TNOO3UAD POP                3.21    12.0        72.4               50.1                     107.2
mNSPAM  ("MDLK cENERAL
Z1TEREUT") CIRCULATION
P   TIWUAID PPULATL                 60.0        72.1    132.6 f              53.5                      63.5
CXIa   AmUa ATEOAM/CCAJPITA           13.O         9.4       2.6 Ji             341                       2.6
AUQR  IC
TOTAL LABO  CU  (TA0)               2800.0      3668.0   5168.0
PENILE (PECST)                      27.2        31.4      31.5               33.5                      23.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCINT)               63.0        56.0      50.0               52.2                      31.5
INDUTR! CPECNT)                     12.0        11.0      16.0               17.9                     23.9
PARCIPATION RATE (PECNT)
TOTAL                               34.1        33.8      35.6               33.7                      32.2
MILE                                48.8        45.7      48.5               50.9                      49.3
PENILZ                              18.9        21.5      22.5               26.6                      15.2
ECONINC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.4         1.4       1.2                1.1                       1.4
Xms mDus
PRcEUiT W  PVATE INCU
RECEIVED my
VICGS? 5107 IWUSEBOLUS              34.0        27.0        ..               22.2
NI1EST 20S20  ROUSELDS              61.2        56.         ..               46.0
LOVES? 201 or NO     W               3.2         3.3        ..                6.4
LOUEST 401OF ROUSUS                  9.6        10.6        ..               15.5
Sovs T tC
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVrY INOMWE
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBA                                  ..       123.6    314.4               1U.6                      28U.2
RURAL                                 ..       111.6    269.2               152.0                     134.0
ESTMKATED REATIVE POVERT
LEVEL (US3 PER CAPITA)
URBAJ                                 ..          ..        ..              177.9                     522.6
RURAL                                 ..          ..        ..              164.6                     372.4
ESTIKATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
*                   POVERTY IlCOae LEVEL (2)
URS                                   ..        21.3      12.6               23.4
RURAL                                 ..        58.7      37.7               37.7
NO? AVAILABLE
TO APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The ETmup aver.p. for acb indicator arm populatlon-wegbted aritletic mans.  Coerap of coatriem minin the
4ndlcatoro depend. on avaiblllty of data and is not uniform.
lb  Unless otbertwim  noted. -DUte for 1960- refer to an  year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970' between 1969 and
1971; and data for Moat beeat Eetlatm- between 1960 and 1982.
Ic  1974; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1975; 1& Peninaular Malaysia;  /h 1962; /I 1976; a 1964;  hk 1979.
JUNE. 1984



-20-                                              ~~~~~ANNEX I
___________20                                                                        Fango3  oaf 5
tin=s  4iq  lt. iam as dma fia  mm.11  gnasip leOWa It  we1 60lbilnh   ad "litutu. iu show                             l1111   'sIm,i , mini     li.Nltlla iip
"Wooth maca. ed       l    Oi iladidii camui           a. aN.-   IM 96   o   "Pui   a d fi ilifma   anal   afcllgadm         t.d .5,lsbc.aci
T. ealt. chi omeik Wild.. mim i  In            a  smiasulamm        Nl mu    II  11pm.. km..  Winim.               4*tOM           ~    nd        M       = .   h
lb  alum  1mm  -  iiiin  a~   glud         ~lm  cje    cavI. al il     "l a camp  - am a liii  Inls tUl   Islek  olam  it.aM  desims ampalit
nh~al isacip cmm   Ice us    M ii s    iqnsi aIni anm toan =11hoo  atIth l SPiFl a  m              dalms1I anaIm   S  SP               M a 4licOtal qi
ma   ..i mN,   m  ania   flm  it. caameas.   FCf ic sans  Ai Is it.iluaa   ji hut  -  at  idiOIMIU  i  an, ad ic F  M=                . mmiii mmi m
acium    mi mitgmia ic.as ii -   2iSm.ac  to euSb. lbmk,smanull   allnI ter w 1 i .csiti   ma sis SAi -   Wealca     a icE amsu   lit. scaqspas
hills  ~~~~                                                  *u.hffl~~~~L~~ftf5I~~.      Pell aluss  dicidud tp inhulof pialiali
ta  ,I     , am1111 1111  lgclow ma    am ci mImd dullW1 Imm,                                                   wr-I  ft-  MIm scLils  lIs.
* tAIlsm    aiec If cItIcclvi-L  ias Iaid  omac.ulm   .i wiasioni                       -UW          i. mumcm    amares. Piam1i mA"N ad
icW plmci. iit.   a  Iftmiie icidcn  WPi  i Lt. thmm  am.o                           awl  mallmapha.
IIM seed 1"1 d.e..                                      ini-t-  W               aw~      ~    mauS          .  1 inmil
itULfflflJIAl   m  in alml ilmalscm 511dm abI iini,                       eth6 iie owes....i IS pium.sea atrl am ,mc lJaCimeem  a
iiliiifaW-  macili  mimia  mid maAlmstmu..i mmii                     fmmlmltSm "Hmci. andEmmk.   iS IllIhImlial  beepnlhich
uu       mm       nmakes"-l "...as Wells lama  ul- ctmpa ... .c1                              aomam  1151W Oman.  ampRl an111  Mit c tiAlia  om  w     asmas
1s g.t.n.licc)mmmmisc   i 1c.mame.W Ii sp  ci am,puca Mo  jhmic   iiai I                                                 aillm   mimlia. md-   ossilymkml
it. fli 19allohii.
-a  I .ImiIcIil   Nl  sill  dt.                                                           tabd Inclmn.c    nac
.M  .  pnoalika, Iedua  S.OW %d-.  wl-,ftm.addli.p.s  iittLiittL -a ilti Islaed e ai
LIl .i1  --     as kltadf-  hIp e.c.Waminkel P1.1 "It1tip                      pddiIlc     MM i  focmap .   111. tlm lfcat c...   imc   Il      na
ml ms dtittIciliilm  a.n- dsu IA m  lam  maci mUD   IIO   lashdI
pl.lims icii.ia.ict  11111 aclmif  I lt.c IcImlIld  dci lbs II- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~       Mis                                   0
dlgf.~  '10"I 1-       i t flIn  Is     a  L  cIctIl   ,1t
-he            M!i .tIU opmi. adl pima1   . OA."..     ilIP    cimlmpc- astd IPLILa a i   uJargo. 1.1SIillItL   l
Ma hh mtt  ab.l              t 0ii- tltasis-pi . mt .emankcsfom, as  t.aimpa   titclcll    Itm ..ani    5190ii
citl  #5 S.   *Lil lit Iil.mcl.ti  -uftlma tls3.1 in a       IsS.c."                  U Ilta         itlicIN  blew  nb1a mt. i1.wPlcs cinlacte
ib. T. mans. p5.t   ibcc.PtI cc t i.- .cmmil iri it. isptoolc.irIlicIm    - tsa   I 4-19  mm anoa- sni                                            liti
me 1Isrn   -                 -tit   ai.    Mi Sl.mctma- gis l Peek mIthdIa,fti    ui.stiii        cil   Ihaiiai     c
II   s  tl   towt Samwi.wauma    lbt ma        4    Warib  chi . l                       asal    ta
aidsomIin  ef pcp.a.cs m mm. In. IRm. smoaft.PS ai.d.    dl                            u%l   cl.lcbtiicic.f it-Puialallt
in ta.ctla          -  " -m% .    --nitctlcc   c..      -l l = Iljlltcdcp-ccgIcAllt  tcap   amim
taid.  mac mi..         L                                                       t.tlt ali M.Puff.W&LItc-l-sifim.-i5 ydpmqit-111tlliatl  i
mm,1 .it               P" 11   at..   '    ..4a.  -t.,L                             ac -di- It.=-   IlIttlIet  ndltc limit it tIM          cmli) a
W.1  e g   dadb   n   ca.i M. Isusi-. Pacilctc.  mt                                  "arce ifin1 ll= 1i w mnaSiIoptoa                     i
tamll I  cat ples-I .   ...t.cm   - Osmis  (I-cl ,clianIS,, antic-na ill-                                                                     obeel qp
Il  si. ofh - a*sud 511  ali  ll cat)  at pspi.tf w19 51. psi_1ened-    _
sIpIclc. all.a I..ls, dad  2itl.                                                         c am -11  L  w 1   .   m.   iu.c   tccla           m-u. bins,aka-
anmllcl     It- l-l.cc -. 11-i.      hI-ll.,  -hn.'md   a                        ucimlcai. --tli Mlaaasn;c -9 ala ins if- clis    iWt
itt,listi   mcc.. c--Ic dang   Mci-.                                               .,iiiccd.4v.ImSpha easm-H.ispi   tpllO                iiia i  l.d
Cits. ilFlaIF cIi(c ~Imaclmmi lb-c m l, L     ciii - ci'  -i.tcc. -4 I.4                 .eua  i  Ps.   n   P   ctt   i    p  1   .  ccb   i.
psi         pIplmeal,tn palsts, as   tmii    Masc e                                    ,sulls....           mmiS-
Cctlt tchin.. 5.. laccti-  stI dcii -=   t -1I -ta   iIifl                       ii  cltc I       ihama.   :lSttal-11    &-llIi Pw isma.           iI
usc s.ccim MO      .- ciic             .itaca             asma  tt  t                    am      isasI    liIb  taici.aar. .6ls.W-.m -tE  ..
mcii.                                                                           pt.m~~~~~a  f  vltillla atiu a ai       W -sueS mii awr   iii cidl
-   mt-icit -.,-al ;.cdplpiqislStlyili                                              lslte  itlclltti -  _.. -la    - t.-                       act!s
Piccis':L.Ini-at uld dimc Vm  nit cl -hcl  -I s    - isi    mc 
piolesmll. 1  -iW. Aiis  U.pmaei  llsf. tacit.                  n tiI aca'smma  -
1-    rr",                                                 -H~~~~~~~~~~pLlt- -0   tim_ Mc.  i-ctl-lls a .. cc lIna, Issila cc   ftSc
ma -.C..Is sicc-?I-.ccp    c.dt si  .. .-lt.       j!4r           ro5L-..ad.lc- frt- _        .itsti 9 11. Wcmi i           W.
c.c.l ucdtPIStI 11  ad  I-isl.i  irateIa  t.19hltadad               a=!3aa.wlrE12al-      mti ttu   t  ll.fI.i.mlsi
.satt.                                                                        itt.ml 1.it Imtttnu ns. Iltts  - s' tc. am.. as  Tos  . -WppciA.ils C
It                                  .-4.r  dctl.niis  m1 i. Jil1, i  It..  ii                                         tt   cci -        iwt1 1- .-. pslilt sc
.                           tt tt,:19, tclal iad. tad..                     ,.imnmmq Ia-cu slicical  iii- ftp..l.sma. ad ll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11-9,  cia -ti.cIi.-.  A-
-tictbtcId;i,ti   is -"Ill.                 m- i aWII4ThIST JIS                                                 -4311 a.
=l si-.:.ii   -f`.lllSis-iId iLiuisct1                                 "~ EnllNiici      iatImu Maunif    it rat ad ii-- li.adm  ii.t 
tmmsutars ci - c-ac c  stitt nistt. Immadc  Si. l cn.ac- .t5c-.
iulciililu  19dls  It lit s-mdit  c-c   ills.   Wt-ct                    was-tI
mmii  iii  ad c.aap   Iti-il   Ila11   n                                          tlsinim   ciIarcIs   c    1c                        . m-1tim V a.d i-m 
dpau,-d s   -stm..-L,;       a  l  lila.r-   1t.n11mi. tcSi         *9                    aisam.itttt mcit  .sltlt  -c-.nic.is    ta
dtt.                                                                          .ilcidait.-t. f
t~ lip i-Alltic  s.  Alld.t  -I-  Som.i.          n,a...cn.Pca OsIc               Iti 1 i =lIla  mIi  -w-c In-m 1. s-Z t Zd:-i f-S                     cii
Siu.41cj-tam  P  tl...sa c -    ci i.s" to alamac
Wtcsii -Ii ici  I I.I Witcl-s.t  dIi." c   .w                pc
pti tn. cl i.int   ma, Ittt  ma.sctadIlitt
J   acti sal, IlsIst. icteti i-l.a~1 ini  -cca.9                          i9.C- a le tamcca   ls  tuclu-u  inIlisa
.ct..uaP.d   Ic sita  imt I isP-ati     Itilicfl. tiIc. ad                                                                          -  Its
ualsti  alIt  a  iitsli  I siti imuittt -uMi.et   caf
ti-  -n   .tm    aal  cualsstaiti            sttttjwe...
MSc, is-c   .-cci   '.ii.a   istiu   .am.                   atIs



- 21 -
ANn T
CffUU  IIAYA - ALAYSIA
00M  NArIOMAL Pr101     IN 1r13 4II                                                    IA7
(2 1f1ff1 .!!                )
9K Itl-            2           31461-10         1@n-77          19.7      3979 1      93 3Q I911          3112      333        1"04
wNr St MArket Prta..                  30,621          3.1                              7.0           5.9       4.94       1.1       7.2        6.3       4.4 *.1
,rem Domemlc Ineesntent               10.13           33.3            1.7            11.4          1t.3      13.5        3.0      72.1       14.6        1.11      1.2
rmeu attemal letrJ                    7?"              21.0                             *                                  *         0                    a ;
Ixpeorte o  Coed, 4 mI                1.3"             40.1            6.              7.5           7.6      17.S        2.7       n.5        1.7       11 n      14.7
Import. of Goeds A UPS                111.473          60.3            2.9             J.5          12.9      21.3      11.1        7.2       33'        7.1        4.1
nnTnlr. laPnx nmrxC AIMb
PfonnrTvrY   u 314U  /a
Sin-1             r        3n  _           nt _          p  Der
ItM t.1                    M. n r.!aS Usx
Amrtcultur                           3,034     21.3             2.0   37.0                15333       1-.7
Induntry                             4.491     31.3             1.3   24.1                1.565       111.6
ServIces                             61.103     7.4            2.1   311.9               3,122       117.6
mratllAver a                  14.34B    100.0              3.4  100.n                2.634      3n0.0
e2WPSK3ST P1341u3CM
P91-S PI           et Of Cl2Y13P91
-tiEr-       1971-is      19.764-10   191 El      1       19.8     39401
Currant Peceipta                         20.320          20.4         24.4      23.2      27.1      27.2     29.n
Currant rpediture.                       19.141          24.9         30.3      24.4      24.0     21.6      2fi.7
Currant Sorpim                            1,679          n0.           1.2        .11      1.3       1.6      2.1
Dtrect ll oe ne tupndluree                 .3n4           5.1          7.3      35.1      11.6       7.7      7.4
net tendint                               3.392           3.0          3.4       4.1       6.7       5.1      5.0
Perulga Norreeite  (net)                  4.226           2.1          1.3       5.2       7.J       1.4      5.'
rOU Ccluz ANID bP3101
3974      1975       1976      1977       3971       3979      3110       11        1492       39113     1911A
(mitlion 8S etsatandlg end wrted)
Honey aed %a.l-H  ne               3,7124  lo0.nol    12,771    14.A13l    17,467    21,416    27.652    32,171    37,64a         31.193    43.1176
tank Credit to Public
Sector (nft)                       959     1,313        1122    1.213      1,017       -742        49      2.292     3,912      3431 3    4,34
tank Credit to private
sector                          5327S      6.077      7,471     1.173    11.844    14,K02   2m,36    25.7111   29.916    316.417    42.474
(Percenewtare  or Index  omber.)
one  eNd ODmnS -Hone
aa 2 of CoP                      311.1      44.4       43.5      46.0       14.1       47.9      53.3       57.7      61.5       30.9.     S9.3
Conamer Price Tndex
(19110 - t00)                    69.1       82.0       R5.7      17.9       92.0       96.5     100.0      3n0.7     116.1      1230.    132.3
Annual Percentmag
Change  in Conauser
Price Tndex                       37.4       4.5        2.1       4.7        4.9        1.6       1.7        9.7       3.3        3.7       31.
tank Credit to Public
sector (net)                     69.4       36.9    -37.4        67.3    -16.2            a         a      317.5      73.7    -33."        20.3
tank Credit CD Private 5ector       15.1      15.1       22.9      20.1       32.0       26.5      31.7       22.11     16.3       21.7      133.1
*   Not applicable.
Ia In 1970 prices.
Note,  All convoralee tn dellar, to th1i table are at the average erxchmae rat*e pre-allin   during the Paried eneered.
April 1985



2-    1
TRADE PATMET. AIM CAPITAL FLWS
WALANE OF PA!IINS             198       1983      1983     l      9     J     DiSK 1PORTS (1984)
- (115    millIon)-                                      IlSS _mon        x
Exports f,o.b.               11,952    13.863    16,250        Rubber                       1.565        9.6
Imports f,o.b_               12,464    13,160    14,233        Timber                       1,539        9.5
_factor Servic  (cnet)       -1,616    -3.027    -2,177        Petrol m                     3,729       23.0
Resource Cap (deficit - -)   -2,218    -1,324      -160        Tin                            479        3.0
Pector Service  (met)          -958   -1,54    -2,012          PalA Oil                     2.268       14.0
Net Transfers                   -33       -22       -22        All Other Coods              6,670       40.9
Naleace on Ourrent Account
(deficit - -)              -3,119   -2,89      - 2,224             Total                 16.2S0      100.0
btrect Fbreign Investment     1,256     1,206       898
Net MLT Borrowing la          2,597     2,133    2,063         EXTPSAL DERT. DRX(MRER 31. 1984
Disburrements                 2,838     2.391     2,617
Amortization                    241       258       554                                              iss nln
Subtotal                   3,853     3,339     2,961        Public Debt, nei. Cuaranteed           11,872
Noaguarmateed private Debt             3,933
Otber Iteem Une.t.             -931      -396      -657        Total Outstanding & Disbursed          15.805
Increase in Reserves (-)        197       -49       -80
Intezustiona- Reserves
(end year)                4.021    4,102      4,109        DENr SERVICE RATIO FOR 1984 /b
Fuel and Related Materlals                                     Public Debt, incl.. Cuaranteed            7.9
DEports                           *         *                  Nonguaranteed Private Debt                A.0
Exports                           *         C                  Ttcal Outstanding 1 Disburued            11.9
Of whch:H Crude Pctroleom   3.288    3.393    3,729
lUND/IDA LENDINC (CSMq7TnFR 30. 1984)
(VW mlioU)
RATE OF EXANCE                                                                                         1n1D
Average ratce during period:                                   Outstanding & Disbursed                 733.6
Undi-bursed                            564.9
Outstandivg ln-l. Undisbursed        1,298.5
MS per 1ss           nSSper MS
.1974                   2.41                 0.41
1975                   2.40                 0.42
1976                   2.54                 0.39
1977                   2.46                 0.41
1978                   2.32                 0.43
1979                   2.19                 0.46
1980                   2.18                 0.46
1981                   2.30                 0.43
1982                   2.34                 0.43
1983                   2.32                 0.43
1994                   2.34                 0.43
not available.
/a Public/publicly guarmnteed debt only.
7T; Interest and amortization payments as a proportion of total earnings from exports of goods and services.
April 1985



-23 -                             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS /a
As of March 31, 1985
Amount iD USS million
Loan                                                                 (less cancellations)
no.    Year       Borrower                 Purpose                   Bank     Undisbursed
Forty loans fally disbursed                                            784.58
1115    1975   Malaysi.a            Agri. Research & Extenrion          20.50       0.19
1376    1977   Malaysi:             Highway (III)                       35.00       5.79
1444    1977   Malaysia             Nat'l Small-Scale Irrigation        39.00       2.76
1493    1978   Malaysia             National ExtensIoa                  19.00       6.30
1590    1978   Malaysia             FELDA VI Land SettLement            28.00       6.25
1608    1978   Malaysia             Population IT                       17.00      11.60
1632    1978   Malaysia             Krian-Sungei Manik Agri. Dev.       26.50       1.32
1657    1979   Mlalaysia            Education (V)                       38.00       0.48
1717    1979   Malaysia             Muda II Irrigation                  31.00      12.44
1808    1980   Nat'l Elec. Board    Power (IX)                          50.00      11.02
1899    1980   Malaysia             Kelantan Land Scheme aehab.         25.00      21.34
1957    1981   Malaysia             Rompin-Endau Area Dev.              40.00      26.10
1960    1981   Malaysia             Trans-Perak Area Dev.               50.00      40.37
2013    198-1  Malaysis             FELCRA I                            37.00      25.67
2145    19u2   Malaysia             Industrial Training (Educ VI)       40.60      36.89
2146    1982   Nat'l Elec. Board    Rural Electrification (Power X)    86.30       70.50
2147    1982   Malaysia             Malacca Agri. DeveLopment           25.40      20.68
2220    1983   Malaysia             Kedah Valleys Agri. Development    56.90       49.12
2291    1983   Malaysia             Sabah-Sarawak Road                  86.22      86.00
2438    1984   Nat'l ELec. Board    Power (XI)                          70.00      69.83
Total Loan (less cancellation)                               1,606.00
of which has been repaid                                     298.77
Total Dn- outstanding                                        1,307.23
Amount sold                    43.89
of &hich has been repaid                                      43.89
TotaL loans now held by Bank /b                              1,263.34
Total undisbursed                                                         504.65
/a The status cf the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IrDA financial projects in executisn, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
lb  The Board of Executive Directors approved the Small-Scale Enterprise Project,
Loan 2471-MA, on October 16, 1984. It was signed on January 11, 1985, and became
effective on April 16, 1985.



-24 -                          ANNEX II
Page Z of Z
B. STATEHENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
As of March 31, 1985
Amount in
Type of            USS million
Year             Obligor                    business      Loan    Equity  Total
1964-74   Kalysian Industrial Devel-       Financing          -    1.94    '.94
opment Finance Ltd. (HIDF)
1985      SEAVI-KA                         Money and          -    1.00    1.00
Capital Mkt.
1966      Tasek Cement Ltd.                Cement          1.28    0.28    1.56
1968-69   Xalayawata Steel Ltd.            Steel           2.45    1.24    3.69
1970      India-Malaysia Textiles, Ltd.   Textiles         1.25    0.25    1.50
1985      Pacific Hardwoods                Pulp and        9.97    1.53   11.50
Paper Prod.
Total Gross Conmitment                          14.95    6.24   21.19
Less: repayments, sals, cancellations,
terminations and write-off               4.98    3.71    8.69
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC               9.97    2.53   12.50
Total Undisbarsed                                9.97    0.41   10.38



-25-                        ANNE  III
MALAYSIA
SABAH FORESTRY TECENICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DAT SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the r-roject:           Six months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:            SAFODA
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:               June, 1984
(d)  First Bank mission to identify the project:  September. 1984
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:       None
gf)  Date of completion of negotiations:           March 30. 1985
Cg)  Planned date of effectiveness:                August 31, 1985
Section II: Special Sank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Submission by Malaysia of a satisfactory implementation plan and
schedule for the project's tree farming component would be a
condition of loan disbursement for this component (para. 42);
(b)  Additional conditions of effectiveness would be:
Ci)  signing of a subsidiary loan agreement by Malaysia and Sabah
State (para. 48);
(ii) establishment of a Project Preparation and Monitoring Unit in
the State Department of Development (para. 46);
(iii)  employment of consultants to assist in the management of the
pilot plantation component of the project (para. 49); and
(iv) signing of a marketing agreement between SAFODA and SFI for the
latter's purchase of the project pilot plantation's output as
pulpwood (para. 41); and
(c) The project management consultant team would establish and maintain
a separate project accounting system for the plantation component
(para. 55).



-26 -                           AM=EX IV
KALAYSIA
SABAEI FORESTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE ASSISTANCE PROJECT
MALAYSIA - PRODUCTION AND EXPORTS OF LOGS AND SAWN TMBER
Production                              Exports
Saw Logs        Sawn Timber          Saw Logs        Sawn Timber
Year  Volume  Value   Volume  Value         Volume  Value  Volume  Value
(mm)    (uss.)  (mci)    (USWm)      (mc=)   (USSm) (mcm)    (US$m)
1975    19.1    508.4    3.8    369.6        10.6      282     1.7   165.4
1976   26.2   1,059.1    5.3    655.7        15.3      621    Z.9   360.0
1977   28.3  1,136.2    5.6    679.3         16.0      641    2.8   332.5
1978   28.2  1,190.7    5.2    636.7         16.7      703    2.8   338.0
1979   28.8   2,305.4    5.9    917.5        15.9   1,212      3.1   516.0
1980   27.9  1,911.8    6.2    948.5         15.2   1,106      3.0   494.0
1981   30.7  2,014.2    5.5    820.3         158     1,043     2.7   409.7
1982   32.7  3,414.6    6.2    918.2         19.3   1,425      2.9   436.7
1983   32.7  2,049.5    7.1  1,111.4         18.8   1,179      3.3   515.2
1984    31.5  2,318.6    7.4  1,170.8        17.4   1,249      3.2   506.3
Source: Ministry of Finance, Economic Reports.



-27-                              ANNEX V
MALAYSIA
SABAH FORESTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Bank                                               Cumulative disbursements
fiscal                                                  at end of period
year               Period ending                  USS million              Z
1986               December 31, 1985                  0.5                  8
June 30, 1986                      1.1                 17
1987               December 31, 1986                  2.5                 38
June 30, 1987                      3.6                 55
1988               December 31, 1987                  4.0                 62
June 30, 1988                      5.5                 85
1989               December 31, 1988                  6.0                 92
June 30, 1989                      6.5                100
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



AwnE VI
TabIe I
H ALAYSIA
SABAR FORRSTRY TRCHNICAL ASSISTANCF PROJECT
Project Costs - Pilot Plantation - Bengkoka
kUS'O000)
Foreign
Unit   Total    1985/86          1986/87        1987/88        1988/89       Total   exchanse
UInit     cost   units  Units   Cost  11IT ta  Cost  rnits   Cost  1Tnits rT ot   cost   Cost    X
Investment Costs
Nursery establishment          units   various        -     -       63       -     50       -       8     -        8      129      52  40
Plantation establishment         ha       301    3,000   300        90  1,000    292  1,200    363   500         158      903    271  30
Forest roads                     km        60         8     2      120       6    360       -       -     -        -     480    286  60
Forest tracks                    km        7        84    24        72     30      89      30     89      -        -      250    148  60
Administrative buildings       units   various        3     1      169       1    137       1      32     -        -      338    169  50
Staff housing                  units   various        3     1      443       1    305       1    316      -        -   1,064    532  50
Water supply                   units   various        I     1      220       1    30O       -       -     -        -      520    416  80
Power supply                   units   various        3     1      100       1     80       1      20     -        -      200    180  90
Vehicles L equipment           units   various        -     -      250       -    150       -    200      -        -      600    540  90
Soil survey                    units      75         3      1       32      2      62       -      -      -        -      94       0   0'
Subtotal                                                     1,559           1.825          1.028             166   4,578  2.594  57W
Operating Costs
Projei B management           various  various        -     -       84       -    190       -    190      -      190      654      0   0
Consultant management         various  various       -      -      211       -    338       -    232      -       52      833    666  80
Office expenditures           various  various        -     -       25       -     51       -      51     -       51      177    142  80
Nursery operation             various  various        -     -       38       -    125       -    151      -       63      376     75  20
Plantation maintenance        various  various        -     -        -       -     55       -    173      -      356      584    117  20
Road malntenance              various  various       -      -       30      -      65       -     70      -       70     235    106  45
Buildings maintenance         various  varlous       -      -        -       -     13       -      21     -       32       65     32  50
Services operation            various  various       -      -        -      -      15       -     62      -       74      152    143  90
Vehicle O&M                   various  various        -     -       30       -     42       -      72     -       84      22R    127  60
Subtotal                                                       418             894          1 .21             972   3.304  1.408  43
Total Base Cost                                               1.977          2.719          2.048          1.138   7.R82  4.002  51
Physical contingencies (5%)                                           99            136             102             57      394    197  SO
Price contingencies                                                   49            364             464            393   1,270    622  49
Total Prolect Cost                                           2.125           3.219*         2.614          1.588   9.S46  4.821  50
.-S 



ANNEX VI
Tabl e_
MALAYSIA
SABAH FORESTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ProJect Costs - Tree Farming - Sipitang
(uss 'Coo
Foreign
lUnit   Total    1985/86       1986/87       1987/88        1988/89    Total  exchanRe
cost   units  Units      t  Unlts  Cosot  Unlts  Cost  Units  Cost  cost   Cost   x
Administration and Technical
Assistance
Foresters                           15         5    -       -       1     15      2     30      2     30    75      n    0
Vehicles                            15         2    -       -      2      30      -      -      -      -    30    27   90
Nursery establishment               10         4    -       -       1     20      1     10      1     10    40    12   30
Fire protection equipment           20         1    -      -       1      20     -       -     -       -    20    la   90
Vehicle operation                   5          6    -       -      2      1n      2     10      2     10    30    27   90
Offlce expenditures                 5          3    -       -      1       5      1      5      1      5    15      3   20
Subtotal                                                -             l10            55            55   210    87   41    '
On-Farm Development
C=ear ing                         250/ha    500    -        -    ion      25   400    100       -      -   125      -    0
Seedling purchase                 30/ha     500    -       -    100        3   400      12     -       -    15      -    0
Lining, digging                   60/ha      500    -       -    100       6   400      24      -      -    30      -    0
Planting, replanting              80/ha     500    -        -    10o       8   400      32     -       -    40      -    0
Fertllizer                        80/ha      500    -       -    100       8   400      32      -      -    40    30   75
Weeding                           40/ha   1,0oo     -       -    100       4   400      16   500      20    40      -    0
Maintenance                     50/halyr   600    -         -      -       -   100       5   500      25    30      -    0
Subtotal                                                               54           221            45   3?0    30    9
Total Base Cost                                                       154           276           1nO   530   117   22
Physical contingencies (5%)                                                  7            14             5    26      6   22
Price contingencies                                                         19            49            28    96    21   22
Total Project Cost                                                    180           339           133   652   143   22



ANNEX VI
Table 3
M1LAYSIA
SABAH FORESTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Project Costs - Research Plantation
(US$'000)
Foreign
Unit  Total    1986/R7       1987/88       1988/89    Total   exchanRe
Unit    cost  units  Units  Cost  lJnits  Cost  Units  Cost  cost   Cost   %
Investment Costs
Land clearing                    ha     0.8    500    170    136   170    136   160    128    400  240    60
Field office & laboratory      unit    150        1      1    150      -      -      -      -    150   75    50
Store & garage                  unit     50       1      1      50     -             -      -      50   25    50
Trucks                          unit     20       2      2     40      -      -      -      -     40   40   100
Pickups                         unit     10       2      2      20     -      -      -      -      20   20   100
Nursery equipment               unit     60       1      1      60     -      -      -      -      60   60   100
Fire protection equipment       unit     25       1      1      25     -      -      -      -      25   20    80
Subtotal                                                   481           136           128    745  480    64
Operating Costs
Admlnistration                   -        -       -      1      60     1      60     1     60    180   36    20
Labor                        man-years    1    225      75      75    75     75    75      75    225    0      0
Vehicle costs                man-years  20        3      1      20     1     20      1     20      60    5    90
Subtotal                                                   155           155           155    465   41      9
Short-term consultance                                          30           40            30    100  8O    an
Total Base Cost                                            666           331           313  1,310  601    46
Physical contingencies (5%)                                       33            17            16     66   30    46
Price contingencies                                               89           44            75    208   89   40
Total Project Cost                                         788           392           404  1.5R4  720    45
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Al yr
-31-                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~Table 
- 31-
tALAYSIA
SAtAR FORESTRY TECUIICAL ASSISTAICK PROJET
Prolect Costs - Studies and Fell C
(nSS'oO)
ttnit  Total    1985/R6      1986187       1987/88       1988/8    rotal   rexhange
Unit    cost  units  Units  Cost  lnits  rout  itTits  Oost  lTnith  rost  cost   Cost   T
Study Item
Transport                     san-months 10.0      6     2     20      4      40    -        -    -       -      ';   ;
mnn-months  3.3      6     2       6     4       14    -       -    -       -      20    0
Subtotal                                      12                                                              8L
Narketing                    uan-months 10.0      6      -      -      6      60    -        -    -       -      60   60   100
uan-months  5.0    1R      -       -    IS      90    -        -    -       -      90    0      0
Subtotal                                      24                                                             150
Processing                   *an-months 10.0       6     -      -      6      60    -        -    -       -      60   60   100
uan-movnths  3.3    12     -      -    12       40    -        -    -       -      40    0      0
Subtotal                                      18                                                            1to
Incentives                   uan-months :0.0      6      -      -     -        -    3       30    3     30       60   60   100
man-months  3.3    12      -       -     -       -    6       2n    6      20      40    0      0
Subtotal                                      16                                                             100
Site surveys                  san-months 1C.0     3      -      -      3      30    -        -    -       -      '10  30   m00
san-months  3.3    18      -       -    18      60    -        -    -       -      60    a      0
Subtotal                                      21                                                              qn
Tree farming                 uan-months 10.0      8      -      -      4      40    4       40    -       -      80   R0   11o
san-months  3.3      0     -       -     -       -    -        -    -       -       n    n      0
Subtotal                                       8                                                              80
Forest management            uan-months 10.0      7      -      -      3      30    4       40    -       -      70  7m   10
man-months  3.3      0     -       -     -       -    -        -    -       -       0    0      0
Subtotal                                       7                                                              70
Research                     usan-onths 10.0      8      -      -      4      40    4       40    -       -      R0   80   100
man-months  3.3      0     -       -     -       -    -        -    -       -       a    0      0
Subtotal                                       8                                                              80
Total                                        116      4     26    82      504   21      170    1      SO     750  sa0    66
Fellowships                       units      10    10      3     30      4      40    3       30    -       -     1001inn   100
Total Base Cost                                             56            U44           200           S0     R50 600    70
Physical contingencies (5%)                                        3            27            10            3      42   30
Price contingencies                                                1            69            36           14     12n   B4
Total Project Cost                                          6n            640           246          67   1 012  714    70



ANNM vI
Table .S
MALAYSIA
SABAH FORESTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Proiect Costs - Prolect Preparation and ?4onitoring UInit
(1UR$ Wo)
Foreign
UJnit  Total    1985/86      1986/87       1987/88       1988/A4    Total   exchange
Unit    cost  units  UJnits  Cost  UInits  Cost  lUnits  Cost  Units  Cost  cost   Cost   X
Staff
Economist                    staff-year  20       4      1     10      1     20      1     20     1      20     70     -     -
Forester                     staff-year  20      4       1     10      1     20     1      20     1     20      70     -     -
Secretary                    staff-year   8       3      1      4      1      8             a 8   I       8     28     -     -
Subtotal                                                    24            48           48            48    168      -     -
Vehicles and Equlment                                                                                                            w
4-wheel drive vehicle            unit     to      1      1     in      -      -     -       -     -      -      10     9    90 I
Office materLials                set       5      1      1      5      -      -     -       -     -      -       5     2    40
Subtotal                                                    15            M                                  15    it    73.
OperatLon and Malntenance
Vehicle                          unit       I     5      1      5      1      5      1      5     1       5     20    20   100
Travel expenses                 unit       1     5       1      5      1      5     1       5     1      5      20     n     0
Office expenses                  unit      1      5      1      5      1      5      1      5     1       5     20     1    40
Subtotal                                                    15            l5            15           15      60    21    35
Total Base Cost                                             54            63            63           63    243    32    14
Physlcal contingencies (5%)                                       2             3             3             3     12     2    14
Price contingencLes                                               I             A            11            IR     38     5    14
Total Project Cost                                          57            74           77            84    293    39    14
-.~~                        _                                  



IBRD 18946
1t *.                                                          11
MALAYSIA
FORESTRY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SABAH
See Inset A                        *   SProject Areo
U   Settlement Area
-r  Kudot                                   *   Pulp Mill                    7
A   Forestry Reseorch Plantation
Roads
Rivers
Ports
Kff~   olaMarradu   f                      t    Air Strips
Kota Boludf   )              :                                   Swamps
j  ,-*                          - -- ~~~~~~~~~Division Boundaries
Tuara n                                                              State Bcundary
jD   PA'b-TAI                                         In- Iternationol Boundory
Koto Kinobolu               Rn BAR A 
/  ~~>v/;;6       t   (           Beluron) A   ;;
PoporCJ       vY         }f
SANDAKAN
1' !SABAH
PENDALAMAN                                                                  lLohod Oatu
TAWA U
SARA W4K                                            1o..Ou                 Scni~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~epurno
iSARAW,n__z                                          9tL K1n
M    Lutq                    Inset A
0    20   40   80   so   100
KILOMETE '    I                 I
INDONESIA                r__S_  10  20  30  40 5_   60
Do                                                           VIET NAM                           PHILIPPINES
Seniojo  g   tXrsLeog                              THAILAND
Pi                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Area of
Konangan                                                                  \   I o,    h
m     A     L    A      Y    S    I    A
Sorawak/
Sumatero   *.CJSINGAPORE             -         Kalimanton
I  N   D   0    N   E   S   i  A
*MARCH 1985



