Report No. PID6756
PID6756.TXT
Project Name                     Bosnia Herzegovina-Local (@+) ...
Development Project
Region                           Eastern and Central Europe
Sector                           Municipal development
Project ID                       BAPE56192
Borrower                         State of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Date this PID prepared           April 1, 1999
Date Initial PID prepared        May 15, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         July 27, 1998
Project Board Date               April 13, 1999
Country Background
1.      The last two years have brought peace and the beginnings to
political, economic and social recovery in war-ravaged Bosnia and
Herzegovina (BiH). However, much remains to be done if BiH is to achieve
long-term political and economic stability. The FY98-99 Country Assistance
Strategy aims to assist BiH make the transition from emergency post-war
reconstruction towards recovery and sustainable growth. The CAS has three
main objectives: (i) to support the implementation of the newly-established
common institutions and macroeconomic policies; (ii) to take the first
steps towards the transition to a market economy; and (iii) to continue the
badly-needed physical reconstruction of the country.
2.      This project is designed to support the objectives of the CAS.    It is
designed as an instrument to assist local governments move away from
dependence on emergency, grant-financed reconstruction towards long-term,
sustainable development. Bosnia's reconstruction effort has, to date, been
driven by donor aid flows, 77T of which has been on grant terms. Such
grant financing is likely to diminish over the next few years. Yet,
infrastructure investment needs (both war damage rehabilitation and new
infrastructure) total billions of dollars. Hence, the need to support
local government improve their revenue-generation capacity and ability to
attract long-term investment.
The Proposed Credit
3.      The Project has two main development objectives:
To strengthen the institutional and financial capacity of local governments
in Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) so as to enable them to provide improved
infrastructure and services in response to citizen demand and to help
stimulate local economic growth.
To initiate, on a pilot basis, the development of a municipal credit market
that will provide a sustainable source of financing for municipal
infrastructure and services investment.



4.      The project will have four components:
Local Government Capacity Building (US$1.28 million).     Technical
assistance and training will be provided to selected municipal governments,
that have demonstrated potential creditworthiness, to strengthen their
financial management and capital budget planning skills, and increase
citizen participation in the investment decision-making process.
Banking Sector Capacity Building (US$1.01 million). Technical assistance
and training will be provided to a selected number of local private
commercial banks (PCBs) to improve their municipal credit analysis and
lending skills.
Local Development Fund (US$11.8 million). A revolving loan fund will be
established from which loans will be channeled to PCBs for on-lending to
municipalities and/or their utilities for eligible investments. Eligible
investments will be municipal infrastructure and services sub-projects that
are supported by adequate project design and feasibility studies and that
meet the project's eligibility criteria. The most likely investments will
be in water supply, sewage, district heating and transportation. The
maximum individual loan amount will be KM 2 million (about US$1.2 million
equivalent). LDF loans will finance a maximum of 90% of the sub-project
cost, with municipalities expected to contribute a minimum of 10%.    The
maximum loan term will be 10 years and final interests rates to the
municipal borrowers are expected to be about 9-10%.
Local Development Fund Management Support (US$0.9 million). This component
will cover (i) the local costs of LDF management, including remuneration of
local LDF staff on a declining basis; (ii) equipment and vehicles; (iii)
operating expenses; (iii) international external audits; and (iv) studies,
including possible sector studies and impact and evaluation studies. From
year 4 onwards, LDF operational costs will be covered from the interest
rate spread.
Financing
5.      The total project cost is estimated at US$18.5 million, of which IDA
will provide a credit of US$15 million. About US$2 million is being sought
from other donors particularly for the institution building components.
Implementation
6.      The IDA Credit will be lent to Bosnia and Herzegovina which will on-
lend the proceeds of the credit to the Federation and Republika Srpska.
Project management and on-lending of the funds will be the responsibility
of a Local Development Fund (LDF) to be established as an autonomous, legal
institution in each Entity. Each LDF will have a Board of Directors to
oversee LDF management and set policy and a small core staff of 2-3 people.
7.      The roles and responsibilities of all the key players in project
implementation are as follows:
Individual citizens, local community councils, non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) and other stakeholder groups, through participation
procedures built into project design will help formulate local priorities
for investment to be submitted by their local governments for LDF funding.
15-30 potentially creditworthy municipalities will be selected to
participate in the project. These local governments and their respective
-2 -



utility companies (LGUs) - through their mayors and elected representatives
- will apply to the participating local banks for LDF financing of priority
capital investment projects.
About 3-5 local private commercial banks (PCBs) will be selected to on-lend
LDF funds to creditworthy LGUs. The PCBs will be responsible to: (i) assess
the creditworthiness of LGUs; (ii) review LGUs sub-loan applications for
sub-project financing; (iii) if eligible, carry out a technical, financial
and environmental appraisal of sub-projects; (iv) approve/reject such
applications; (v) submit approved sub-loan applications to LDF for final
approval; (vi) if approved, make loans to LGUs; (vii) monitor performance
of LDF financed sub-loans; and (viii) take full responsibility for the
credit and other risks of sub-loans to LGUs.
The Local Development Fund (LDF) will: (i) select the pilot LGUs with the
assistance of international municipal consultants; (ii) appraise and select
the PCBs, with the assistance of the international bank consultants; (iii)
support the international consultants in the planning, management and
implementation of technical assistance to the PCBs and the LGUs; (iv)
review and approve/reject sub-loan applications by PCBs; (v) disburse sub-
loans to PCBs; (vi) collect sub-loan repayments from PCBs; (vii) monitor
PCB and LGU performance; (viii) report regularly to the State and Entity
Governments and the World Bank on LDF performance and (ix) support policy
work in the areas of inter-governmental fiscal reform and improvements of
the legal and regulatory framework for municipal lending.
An international municipal consulting firm will be contracted by the LDFs
to provide technical assistance to the LGUs. The consultants will provide
technical assistance and training in the following fields: (i) government
accounting and improved financial management practices; (ii) capital
planning and budgeting; (iii) review and rationalization of LGU
expenditures; (iv) project prioritization and planning; (v) project
procurement; (vi) project appraisal; and (vii) public consultation and
citizen participation in the capital budgeting process. The consultants
may also provide other types of technical assistance based on demand.
An international financial institution or consulting firm will be
contracted to provide TA and training to the PCBs in municipal lending.
The international bank will: (i) assist in the selection of eligible PCBs;
(ii) provide technical advice to the LDF staff on establishing internal
policies and procedures in the areas of financial management and portfolio
management; (iii) review and approve/reject loan requests by PCBs; (iv) co-
authorize LDF sub-loans to PCBs; and (v) monitor LDF performance.
Sustainability
8.      The project will improve the financial sustainability of
reconstruction by assisting municipal governments and their utilities
improve their financial planning and tariff setting practices so as to
increase cost recovery levels. Institutionalization of participatory
processes to include citizens in investment decision-making will further
improve sustainability by building local ownership of capital investment
decisions and increased willingness to pay for improved services.
Furthermore, the project will lay the groundwork for the development of a
private sector credit market that will provide a sustainable source of
financing for local infrastructure investment.
- 3 -



Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
9.      The institutional capacity of local government needs considerable
strengthening - experience in BiH, including direct experience with
municipalities under the Public Works and Employment Project (PWEP), shows
that the institutional capacity and financial skills of municipalities
varies widely, but is generally weak. Hence, this project's emphasis on
strengthening the institutional and financial capacity of local
governments. In addition, some local governments still suffer from ethnic
division and conflict between resident and returning populations
highlighting the need to focus on good governance and public participation.
10.     Municipal development projects need to build in incentives for local
governments to pursue institutional development, which is a lower priority
for them than physical investments - experience from municipal development
projects elsewhere attest to this. Hence, the linkage made between loan
eligibility and the adoption of basic institutional and financial
management improvement measures.
11.     Measures need to be taken to minimize the weakness of the banking
sector - experience from ongoing credit lines financed by the Bank and
other donors offer the following lessons: (i) select only a few banks to
on-lend project funds with intensive training and supervision during
project start-up; (ii) make the banks take the full credit risk - this
enhances repayment performance; (iii) introduce standard loan
documentation, loan analysis and reporting formats; and (iv) introduce
penalties for past-due payments by the participating banks to the LDF.
Poverty Category
12.     Not applicable.
Environmental Aspects
13.     The environmental impact of the sub-projects will vary depending on
their nature. Guidelines for environmental assessment of sub-projects will
be incorporated into the LDF Operational Manual. Sub-project feasibility
studies done by the borrowing municipalities will be required to include an
environmental assessment and propose appropriate mitigation actions to
avoid any negative environmental impact, if necessary. PCBs will be
trained in environmental assessment as part of the TA program. The LDF will
check that the sub-project meets environmental assessment requirements as
part of their review of the sub-project applications to ensure that the
investment fulfills local environmental standards and policies and the LDF
Operational Manual guidelines. Sub-projects with serious negative
environmental impacts would not be eligible for financing.
Program Objective Category
14.     The proposed project relates to municipal development, economic
management and private sector development.
Project Benefits and Risks
15.     Project benefits include: (i) quantitative and qualitative
- 4 -



improvements in local infrastructure and services; (ii) increased consumer
satisfaction; and (iii) increased access to credit for municipal
investment.
16.     Project risks include: (i) that municipalities do not have sufficient
revenues to support long-term borrowing. This will be mitigated by careful
selection of participating municipalities which takes into account the
level, stability and trends in revenues; (ii) insufficient supply of well-
defined projects with adequate feasibility studies. Technical advice will
be provided for project feasibility studies during the municipal
institutional capacity building phase, as required; (iii) PCBs lack the
financial capacity and skills to manage municipal credit risk adequately.
Strict capital adequacy ratios are a key selection criteria for PCBs. The
Project will provide training for PCBs in municipal risk analysis and
lending; and (iv) sub-borrowers may not repay loans. To mitigate this,
secure guarantees will be put in placed including the possible intercept of
funds in local government accounts as a guarantee mechanism. Municipal
borrowers creditworthiness will also be assessed very conservatively. A
performance target has also been set of no more than 10t LDF portfolio at
risk (60 days past due).
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Sarah Forster, ECSHD
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Tel. no.: 387 71 440 293 (c/o WB Resident Mission, Sarajevo)
Fax no.: 387 71 440 108
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 23, 1999.
- 5 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID
-6-



