                                               Document of
                                            The World Bank

                                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                         Report No: 34484

                              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                     (IDA-31910 TF-23689 TF-23576)

                                                   ON A

                                                  CREDIT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.1 MILLION

                                                     TO

                                     BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

                                                  FOR A

                               LOCAL DEVELOPMENT PILOT PROJECT




                                            November 30, 2005




Infrastructure/Energy Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region




 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
 official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective November 23, 2005)

                          Currency Unit = Convertible Mark
                                 1 BAM = US$ 0.60
                                     US$ = 1.66 BAM

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1     December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BiH         Bosnia and Herzegovina
BNG         Bank of Netherlands' Municipalities
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
DEF         Development and Employment Foundation
EUR         Euro
FMS         Financial Management System
FSD         Foundation for Sustainable Development
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
LDF         Local Development Fund
LDP         Local Development Pilot
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PCB         Private Commercial Bank
PDO         Project Development Objective
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
RS          Republika Srpska
TA          Technical Assistance




                          Vice President:   Shigeo Katsu
                       Country Director     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                        Sector Manager      Sumter Lee Travers
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Lawrence M. Hannah

                                 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
                               Local Development Pilot Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 9
9. Partner Comments                                                              10
10. Additional Information                                                       23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33

Project ID: P056192                                                  Project Name: Local Development Pilot Project
Team Leader: Lawrence M. Hannah                                      TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: November 30, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Local Development Pilot Project                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-31910; TF-23689;
                                                                                                     TF-23576
   Country/Department: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: District heating and energy efficiency services (28%); General
                            transportation sector (28%); General water, sanitation and flood
                            protection sector (28%); Sub-national government administration
                            (9%); Banking (7%)
                  Theme: Municipal finance (P); Municipal governance and institution
                            building (P); Other urban development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/20/1998                                     Effective: 09/01/1999
     Appraisal: 04/15/1998                                         MTR: 05/01/2003                  03/15/2004
      Approval: 04/13/1999                                      Closing: 05/31/2003                 05/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA/FEDERATION BH -
                                           FOUNDATION FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT - LOCAL
                                           DEVELOPMENT UNIT; GOVERNMENT OF BOSNIA &
                                           HERZEGOVINA/AND REPUBLIKA SRPSKA DEVELOPMENT AND
                                           EMPLOYMENT FOUNDATION - LOCAL DEVELOPMENT UNIT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Christiaan Poortmann
Sector Manager:                 Sumter Lee Travers                             Margret Thalwitz
Team Leader at ICR:             Lawrence M. Hannah                             Sarah J. Forster
ICR Primary Author:             Lawrence M. Hannah; Goran
                                Tinjic; Anita Correa


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR

                               Quality at Entry: S
                   Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The original and unchanged project development objectives were to: " Strengthen the institutional
and financial capacity of selected local governments and utilities so as to enable them to provide
improved municipal infrastructure and services in response to citizen demand, and to initiate, on a
pilot basis, the development of a municipal credit market to provide a long-term source of
financing for creditworthy municipalities for infrastructure investments."

By 1998, when the PDOs were established, it had become clear that the administrative structure in
Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH), (and in the Federation BiH entity, in particular), was not efficient
and its financing arrangements were not sustainable. However, it was also clear that there was no
chance to address this issue through constitutional change as there was no political consensus in
this regard. It was therefore decided to strengthen capacity of the state government and centralize
certain functions (army, police, treasury etc) as preconditions for European integration, while, at
the same time, strengthening the capacity of local governments (i.e. municipalities as the level of
government closest to citizens) to provide better services to their citizens. This project was
among the first Bank-financed operations of the "new generation" in BiH. In other words, it was
not a classic post-conflict reconstruction project but an operation that aimed at promoting
sustainable development and introducing instruments that could facilitate such development. The
immediate post-conflict reconstruction phase was characterized by emergency infrastructure
rehabilitation, with little attention to building local institutional capacity and the financial
sustainability of service delivery. Further, Bosnia's reconstruction effort was mainly driven by
donor aid flows that were diminishing over time leaving an infrastructure investment gap (both
maintenance and new infrastructure) that totaled billions of dollars. On the supply side a strategy
and policy was in place to replace the former system of state banks with international standard
banks operating within a modern financial sector policy framework. Hence, there was a perceived
need to support local governments to improve their revenue-generation capacity and to access
sustainable (i.e. commercial) sources of financing (commercial banks) for their capital
investments.

The PDOs fit very well together because they were really two parts of one story. Financing for
improved services would be provided through the modernizing financial markets that would, in
turn, require local governments (and their utilities) to strengthen the way they were managed their
financial performance in order to be treated as creditworthy. This formulation of the problem and
the solution was consistent with the strategy of both the government and the Bank at the time.

According to the then Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), local governments (cantons, cities and
municipalities) were important economic players in BiH in respect to reconstruction activity and
accommodating the return of refugees, with specific responsibility for the provision of basic
services and infrastructure at the municipal level. Although local governments and their utility
companies were institutionally and financially weak, they faced huge demands to meet the needs
of existing and returning communities. Up to that time, post-conflict reconstruction had focused



                                                    - 2 -

on emergency infrastructure rehabilitation with little attention to building local capacity and the
institutional and financial systems to support long-term economic growth and development. This
project supported the shift from emergency, post-conflict reconstruction to sustainable economic
growth and development, which was the main strategic goal of the CAS.

Specifically, the PDOs were conceived to provide incentives to economic actors, municipal
governments and banks, and to constructively address all three development themes of the CAS -
strengthening public finance management, private sector development in support of the transition
to a market economy, and deepening the sustainability of reconstruction. Initiating a market for
financing local public services required better managed borrowers and more developed lenders
with a reason to establish and maintain good working relations, all required by the type of
commercial lending transactions envisaged in the PDOs.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The original and unchanged components were as follows:

 Component 1: Local Government Capacity Building :
 Technical assistance and training were to be provided to local governments, (selected based on
 an eligibility criteria that included indicators such as creditworthiness, economic environment,
 capacity of the municipal management, availability of development/urban plans etc), to
 strengthen their financial management skills and ability to identify and prepare bankable projects.
 Activities under this component were also designed to ensure appropriate public participation in
 the capital budgeting process. The technical assistance and training program was to be focused
 on: capital planning and budgeting; financial management and accounting; project design; project
 preparation and appraisal; procurement and public participation in capital budgeting process.

 Component 2: Banking Sector Capacity Building
 Technical assistance and training was to be provided to selected private commercial banks to
 improve their municipal credit analysis and project appraisal skills. Selection of participating
 banks was to be on the basis of criteria such as: financial condition, managerial capacity,
 compliance with banking agency regulations, credit analysis and credit policies and their potential
 to strengthen/develop municipal lending.

 Component 3: Local Development Fund (LDF)
 A loan fund was to be established and administered by the LDFs in two entities, for on-lending
 funds to participating commercial banks that they in turn would lend to municipalities and/or
 their utilities for eligible investments.

 Component 4: Project Management
 Project implementation was to be the responsibility of the local development units, to be
 established as autonomous, nonprofit agencies by the respective entity governments. These units
 did not make decisions on loans (commercial banks did) and, therefore, did not control
 disbursement except for technical assistance and their own administrative expenses.



                                                   - 3 -

 The project components were designed to fit the PDOs precisely. Since the project was
 organized around the initiation of a market for credit to local governments, the largest
 component (79% of project costs) was understandably Component 3, the LDF, which contained
 the financing for on-lending through banks to municipalities. Although there had been an
 assessment of the Local Government Sector in Bosnia-Herzegovina and its Creditworthiness in
 1998 it was (correctly) understood that targeted assistance and training to both parties, lenders
 and borrowers, would be necessary for the achievement of the PDOs. No fewer components
 would have addressed the PDOs and no additional ones were needed.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
 Although there was no formal "quality at entry" review it is possible to make some judgments
 about "quality at entry" from the implementation experience. Although the design has proven
 robust and appropriate, there is evidence that implementation progress would have been better
 had the credit for the project been processed somewhat later. In simple terms, the project was
 phased, first to train and provide technical assistance to banks and local governments, and second
 to then have the two parties conduct business. Each phase was assumed to require about two
 years of the planned four-year project period.

 The framework for modernizing the financial system (including banks) was in place and a
 detailed assessment entitled Local Government Sector in Bosnia-Herzegovina and its
 Creditworthiness (October 1998) was carried out as part of project preparation. The major
 findings of this assessment were: (1) the economic and financial conditions for local government
 are gradually improving and stabilizing; (2) there are enough local governments (both cantons
 and municipalities) which have reached a "creditworthy" status to warrant proceeding with the
 Local Development Pilot Project; (3) there are a large number and variety of projects that are
 ready for financing; (4) utility project financing will be complicated by the "quasi-separate" legal
 status of utilities; and (5) there is significant unused debt capacity since local governments had
 virtually no borrowing to date.

Despite these positive assessments, the project took six rather than four years (two extensions) to
complete. The TA phase got organized early but ran into quite different problems in the RS than
in the Federation. In the RS, the slower than expected privatization of the state-owned banks
resulted in delayed selection of participating banks which was a precondition for receiving TA
from the project. With only one bank qualified in the RS more than two years into the project,
there was no "market" for prospective borrowers to go to despite active interest. In the
Federation the problem was instead on the borrowers' side where political considerations played
an important role in slowing the process of reaching agreements on loans. Lower-cost sources of
financing (deeply subsidized donor funds) caused borrowers to hesitate to accept commercial
terms and the overly complex three level structure of government in the federation diffused
responsibility for local services also reducing the incentive to borrow. So while the first loan to a
local government was made at the end of approximately the second year, the business did not
really take off until the issues mentioned above were resolved late in the third year. Instead of the


                                                    - 4 -

smooth climb in disbursement envisaged at appraisal, the project disbursed little, except funds for
technical assistance and project administration, in the first three to four years. Once the banks
starting lending to municipalities they were able to use the entire remaining credit proceeds (about
80%) in the final two years.

Had the factors mentioned above been fully appreciated and included in the calculation of
project's timetable the project might well have been processed later. In this sense the quality at
entry might be considered marginally satisfactory but that category is not available in this ICR
format so it is designated satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The first key achievement of the project is an improved ability of the participating local
governments to identify and design priority projects, and to make sound capital investments. In
contrast with immediate post-conflict reconstruction phase, when massive investments in
infrastructure were made with little attention to building capacity of local governments as
promoters of local development, this project aimed at changing the mind-set of the local
governments from bystanders to creators of preconditions for growth in their respective areas.
This was achieved by providing effective technical assistance to local governments and by
motivating them to improve the way the identified and implemented local service improvements.
The prospect of obtaining a loan created an incentive for local governments to strengthen their
institutional and financial capacity so as to meet the requirements of lenders in order to borrower
for improved municipal infrastructure and services. The indirect evidence that local governments
accomplished this is that private lenders (banks), assuming the full credit risk, took the decision to
make twenty-nine loans to them. The specific elements of the TA to local governments are
reviewed below (4.2 Component 1) and it is the judgment of both the lenders and various
reviewers that those who received assistance made great progress in respect to their ability to
manage their finances and undertake capital investments. Accomplishment of the first PDO can
also be seen as the demand side of the market for credit to local governments. To accomplish the
second part of the PDO, creation, on a pilot basis, of a market for municipal credit in BiH requires
that the lenders have entered this business and they have. Not only have they made KM 22.3
million (USD 13.25 million versus PAD estimate of USD 12.5 million) worth of loans to
municipalities but they have developed standard loan underwriting practices and a positive
attitude toward this business based on their experience under this project. Although, in most
cases, these loans are still early in their repayment schedule, all are being paid on time which is
evidence of the high quality of the portfolio. The PDOs are thus deemed satisfactorily achieved.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Local Government Capacity Building: Satisfactory Technical assistance and
training under this component were provided to some thirty local governments (selection based on
an eligibility criteria that included indicators such as creditworthiness, economic environment,
capacity of the municipal management, availability of development/urban plans etc), to strengthen
their financial management skills and ability to identify and prepare bankable projects. Activities
under this component were also designed to ensure appropriate public participation in the capital
budgeting process. The technical assistance and training program was provided by qualified



                                                   - 5 -

international consultants (BMB Arcadis & Cowater International were selected competitively ­
procurement method was QCBS) and was particularly focused on: capital planning and budgeting;
financial management and accounting; project design; project preparation and appraisal;
procurement and public participation in the capital budgeting process. Under this project the
direct mechanism, by which local government capacity was translated into better public
infrastructure and services, was that the capacitated obtained a commercial loan. In addition, both
the consultants to local government and an independent review judged the results of this
component as successful. The LDFs confirmed this finding in their review of project feasibility
studies that included confirmation of the procedure used to consult with the community. All of
these reports are included or listed as a reference for this ICR.

Component 2: Banking Sector Capacity Building: Satisfactory Technical assistance and
training was provided by qualified international consultants (Luso LFS during the initial phase and
by the Urban Institute during the later phase of the implementation) to three selected private
commercial banks (UniCredit Zagrebacka Bank, Raiffeisen Bank and LHB Bank) to improve their
municipal credit analysis and project appraisal skills. Selection of participating banks was subject
to a due diligence assessment performed on the basis of a standard eligibility criteria for
participating commercial banks that includes indicators such as: financial condition, managerial
capacity, compliance with banking agency regulations, credit analysis and credit policies and their
potential to strengthen/develop municipal lending. A dispute with the initial consultants delayed
implementation of this component (along with some regulatory factors in the Federation BH
mentioned earlier) but the fact that the banks all made loans to local governments indicates that
they eventually became comfortable with these borrowers, undoubtedly, in part, due to the
assistance rendered under this component. This component came in under cost estimates and the
resources saved were applied to Component 3 to fund loans for local governments.

Component 3: Local Development Fund (LDF): Satisfactory This component was fully
disbursed by the extended closing date. Commercial banks underwrote the credit aspects of all
loans while safeguard and procurement compliance was reviewed by the LDFs. All loans made
under the project are being paid in full and on time to the lending banks. Although the investments
financed under this component are relatively modest in size, for a country with such enormous
financing needs for reconstruction and improvement of existing infrastructure and the building of
new infrastructure, the outcomes are significant. Among other service improvements, the project
supported: reconstruction of street lighting in the second largest city in BiH; rehabilitation of the
local road network in ten municipalities in length of 76.36 km; building and reconstruction of
water supply systems in nine municipalities; reconstruction of sewage networks in four
municipalities; construction of sewage systems in length of 3,8 km; construction of nine water
basins; construction of three water pump stations and procurement of necessary equipment;
reconstruction of five cross-roads in two municipalities; building of two sports hall and building of
flower market. These investments are co-financed from other sources as well, including the
required contribution from each municipal budget of a minimum 10% to approximately 50% of
investment costs in some cases.

Component 4: Project Management: Satisfactory Project implementation was the
responsibility of the local development units housed within the two entity foundations



                                                 - 6 -

(Development and Employment Foundation in Republika Srpska and Foundation for Sustainable
Development in the Federation BiH) whose performance as a whole has been satisfactory
throughout project implementation. DEF and FSD managed the procurement and delivery of all
technical assistance under components 1 and 2. They also established the FMS procedures for
component 3 and successfully channeled funds to the participating banks. Although the project
took two years longer to implement than originally envisaged there are only a few cases where the
implementing units could have shortened the time, such as dealing with consultant problems more
expeditiously. The cost overrun on this component is exactly proportional to the extra time
required to implement the project.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Since specific investments were not identified at appraisal no ex ante rates of return could be
calculated. However, each sub-project submitted to a bank for financing was required to be
supported by an appropriate feasibility study which, inter alia, was to include an analysis of least
cost choice or economic viability. A sample of these studies was reviewed by Bank supervision
missions and found to be satisfactory in respect to the estimated economic returns as well as other
parameters. The LDFs reviewed and accepted feasibility studies for all subprojects. Reports on all
individual projects financed are available. Since the project's principal objective was to increase
the availability of financial services to previously unserved clients - local governments - it would
be desirable to estimate the economic value of achieving this objective. However, there is not a
standard way of estimating the economic returns to improved intermediation and the PAD did not
attempt such analysis.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was applied to the overall project in the PAD but the financial
condition of prospective local government borrowers was discussed as an integral part of the
creditworthiness assessment. Guidelines for borrowers were drawn up and these became part of
the materials used in delivering technical assistance to banks. In the case of investments designed
to directly recover all or a portion of their costs additional instructions were available. The LDFs
have confirmed that the credit decisions of banks did make reference to borrowers' compliance
with regulations (in respect to borrowing) as well as required financial criteria. Project finances,
when relevant, were covered in feasibility studies for specific investments.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
There is a visible positive impact on the two main groups of institutions involved in the project. In
response to the opportunity to obtain a loan, many local governments have measurably
strengthened their budget management processes and taken the necessary steps to make
themselves attractive borrowers. Perhaps more profoundly, these municipalities have changed
their thinking about how to finance priority local services. Instead of relying exclusively on
political lobbying of senior level governments or donors, a goodly number of local governments in
BiH have taken the decision to approach commercial lenders and have learned how to do so,
successfully. The participating banks have undergone significant institutional development too as
a result of the project. At the outset they were not familiar with public sector borrowers and
generally not disposed to trust them with loans. The evidence of change is most dramatically
demonstrated by the loans these banks have made to municipalities but it also evident in the
strategy and enthusiasm for this business as discussed with Bank missions. The public institutions



                                                   - 7 -

created to implement this project also developed quickly and clearly had a positive impact on the
achievement of project objectives but are not permanent fixtures in the municipal credit market.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were no significant external shocks or events which specifically affected this project. The
continuing poor macro economic performance and the strained public finance environment did not
help implementation of the project but these are generally not considered factors outside the
control of government.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Looking more narrowly at factors that directly affecting project performance, as mentioned in
previous sections, it is clear that the availability of grant financing for capital investments
discouraged many creditworthy municipalities and their utility companies from actively exploring
opportunities in the commercial market. At the same time, at a policy level there was little
understanding or support for municipal borrowing under commercial terms. As a result, during
the first two years of project implementation, municipal officials either thought that they were (or
should be) eligible for subsidized financing and may have been reluctant to present themselves as
strong potential clients to commercial banks in this environment. Entity Governments could have
played a more prominent role in promoting development of a municipal credit market as a
sustainable source of financing of municipal capital investments.

In addition to many reforms during the life of the project that helped implementation, such as
reforms to the fiscal and banking systems, the project itself supported analytical and advocacy
work on the legal and regulatory framework for municipal borrowing in BiH. Final enactment of
this legislation has been delayed by a long-standing difference of opinion between officials of the
government and the IMF. Nevertheless the general framework needed to make this project work
is much improved from where matters stood six years ago.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project implementation units in both entities demonstrated high levels of commitment and
professionalism which ultimately led to the achievement of project objectives. However, while in
Republika Srpska Local Development Unit enjoyed full support from the DEF's management and
executive board, Federation BiH counterparts did not always have the support from the FSD's
management and executive board. This was mainly due to prevailing perceptions as described
under 5.2.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project cost was estimated at US$ 17 million of which US$ 15 million in IDA credit (SDR
11.1 million equivalent). Total financing for the project reached US$ 16.94 million and comprised
of Italian Grant for TA components in the amount of US$ 850,000 (5.1 % of total project cost),
Dutch Grant for TA components in the amount of US$ 400,000 (2.3%) and IDA credit in the
amount of US$ 15.69 million (92.6%).

As mentioned above project management costs were estimated at US$ 0.9 million but rose in
proportion to the extended implementation period of six years. Savings from the technical



                                                     - 8 -

assistance components were used to increase funding for loans to local governments.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Likely: Both the investments financed and the loans made are sustainable. The infrastructure
financed is sustainable if it continues to provide the services for which it was intended which the
case for all investments under the project to date. The loans are sustainable if they are being
repaid on time and in full which is the case for all as of this date. In a broader sense, the pilot
approach adopted under the project implies that the experience of local governments being able to
borrow from the financial system will be generalized and grow. It is clear that the local
governments who borrowed, and many who did not, have a considerable appetite for debt finance.
Many have figured out how to make themselves creditworthy and that process is expected to
continue. There are already cases of local governments who have borrower and repaid going back
for a second loan and negotiating better terms which is evidence that they have learned something
from their initial transaction (the project) and been able to apply it in subsequent negotiations with
lenders. As discussed below in the transition section, the participating banks have certainly
understood how to evaluate these borrowers and how good this line of business can be. The
banks have expressed their intention to continue this business and are likely to do so, with, or
without, refinancing such as was available under this project. Thus we fully expect the market
which was effectively piloted under this project to be sustained in the future. One caveat,
mentioned below, is the delay in final approval of new subnational borrowing legislation but given
the nature of the debate (it is not about the desirability of municipal borrowing for capital
investment) this should be thought of as a delay not a threat to sustainability of this process.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project provided substantial input to policy makers on the legal and regulatory issues to be
addressed to facilitate development of a sound municipal credit market in Bosnia and
Herzegovina. The Urban Institute was hired to carry out an assessment and to provide
recommendations on principles to be incorporated into the new legislation on municipal
borrowing. These recommendations were taken into consideration when the new law on internal
debt was drafted. However, as of today, this law has not been adopted mainly due to absence of a
consensus about the ceiling for annual debt service by municipal borrowers (borrowers financed
under this project were authorized to borrow under a special exemption). While, both
municipalities and commercial banks are demonstrating capacity to strengthen their partnership
resulting in increased infrastructure investments, adoption of this law is a necessary precondition
for the process begun under this project to continue as a normal business.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in preparing the project is rated satisfactory with the caveats mentioned
under the section Quality at Entry.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance is rated satisfactory. During the initial phase of the project
implementation there was an intensive supervision by the field-based Team Leader with the


                                                  - 9 -

support of a local Operations Officer and Washington-based Public Finance Specialist. Although
there was a change of the Team Leader after this initial phase, it did not affect the project
implementation or Bank's overall performance. The new Bank team was committed to the original
design of the operation seeing no (longer term) alternative than to use private savings for public
investments. During project implementation this concept gradually received support from all
stakeholders and even among those who were originally skeptical about commercial approaches
to support infrastructure investment.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance throughout the project preparation and implementation is considered
satisfactory. In spite of initial skepticism about commercial borrowing by municipalities for capital
investment projects, the counterpart team was very much involved in project preparation and
provided an important contribution to the project design. Entity Governments also made
necessary implementation arrangements to ensure successful implementation of the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated as satisfactory. There was no political
interference in decision making. Through this project, Government has, for the first time in Bosnia
and Herzegovina, created an environment for commercial relationship between local governments
and private commercial banks.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of implementation agencies was satisfactory throughout the project preparation and
implementation. Local development funds were established as a separate unit within Development
and Employment Foundation in Republika Srpska and as a separate legal entity in the Federation
BiH. At the later stage it was agreed in the Federation BiH to consolidate implementation of the
several Bank financed operations under the umbrella of a new Foundation for Sustainable
Development. As expected, this transition presented a challenge for the counterpart team in the
Federation BiH which had to spend more time on administrative issues and to make sure that
there was sufficient understanding of the project concept among the new management and
members of the Executive Board. However, despite these difficulties, this transition did not have
an overall negative impact on Borrower's performance. It is thanks to continued efforts of the
counterpart teams that the interest of commercial banks for this project was maintained despite
the somewhat slow start. Project objectives would not have been achieved without strong
performance and commitment of the implementation agencies in both entities.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower's performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The most important lesson learned from this project is that the model works. It means that even
relatively weak local governments, in a moderately ambiguous intergovernmental fiscal
framework, can make themselves creditworthy for commercial lenders. This is testament to the


                                                  - 10 -

    effectiveness of the assistance municipalities received and to the incentives they faced. Similarly,
    the project teaches us that private banks will lend to the subnational public sector and take the full
    credit risk. Any project attempting to replicate this accomplishment needs to start out with a
    complete understanding of lenders concerns. A clear lesson is that the legal and regulatory
    framework, in all its dimensions, is the necessary foundation for this business to succeed.

    From an internal point of view, if the Bank were to decide to replicate this model there would
    need to be some adjustments in current policy and practices. At a mechanical level, standardized
    disbursement schedules can not be applied to projects where private sector actors wholly control
    the spending decision. The present arrangements to disburse Bank loans on a predetermined
    schedule actually create pressures that undermine prudent credit decisions by private lenders.
    However, the most important policy issue revealed by this project is that any attempt to create a
    market-based system of financing public investment can not be in direct competition with
    non-market funding sources (including from the World Bank) if it is to succeed. This means that
    there needs to be an explicit policy on which public entities are entitled to receive subsidized loans
    and for what purposes.

    9. Partner Comments

    (a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                           Submission of the Project Implementation Units
                  of the Republika Srpska Development and Employment Foundation
                   and the Federation BiH Foundation for Sustainable Development

I.  INTRODUCTION

OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT

The Project had two main development objectives:

        (1) to strengthen the institutional and financial capacity of local governments in BiH so as to
           enable them to provide improved infrastructure and services in response to citizen demand;
           and

        (2) to initiate, on a pilot basis, the development of a municipal credit market to provide a
           long-term source of financing for creditworthy municipalities for capital investments.

A description of the degree to which the Project met its objectives is given by components.

Component 1: Local Government Capacity Building

Technical assistance and training is provided to app. 40 municipal governments throughout BiH to
strengthen their financial management skills, ability to prepare bankable projects and capacity to
identify and prepare priority investments and ensure appropriate public participation in the capital
budgeting process. Selection of participating local governments is carried out in accordance with
proposed procedure and their performance against proposed eligibility criteria, such as financial



                                                      - 11 -

condition, economic environment, municipal (management's capacity), urban plan, public participation
and service delivery orientation. In other words, eligible municipalities are selected on the basis of their
ability to demonstrate potential creditworthiness. As was anticipated, the technical assistance and
training program was comprised of individual consulting of municipal officials from participating
municipalities in several areas, like as: capital planning and budgeting, financial management,
accounting, project design, preparation and appraisal, procurement and public participation in capital
budgeting process. Besides, within this component it was held 6 seminars in financial management and
2 seminars in project preparation, as well as was organized the study tour to the Netherlands for
representatives of 12 selected municipalities to familiarize them with functioning of the Dutch local
governments and their municipal lending system via the Bank of Netherlands' municipalities (BNG).

Component 2:         Banking Sector Capacity Building

Technical assistance and training is provided to 3 selected private commercial banks to improve their
municipal credit analysis and project appraisal skills. Capacity building of participating banks is
achieved through an introduction of participating banks with municipal budgets, sources of municipal
revenues, and intergovernmental flows, analysis of debt service coverage and other financial ratios,
and identification of key sources of credit risk in municipal lending. Selection of banks is performed on
the basis of meeting criteria such as: financial condition, managerial capacity, compliance with banking
agency regulations, credit analysis and credit policies and their potential to strengthen/develop
municipal lending. At the end of the Project's realization four banks are approved as participating
banks: UniCredit Zagrebacka Bank, LHB Bank, Nova Bank and Raiffeisen Bank BiH (due to the
merger of two banks included in the Project, Universal and Zagrebacka, that followed lately).
Representatives of the partner banks had an opportunity to get acquainted directly with experiences of
Czech Republic and Poland in building their municipal lending systems in the course of five-day study
tour to Prague.

Component 3:         Local Development Fund (LDF)

The loan funds provided by IDA to the State of Bosnia and Herzegovina are, on a project by project
basis, provided to PIUs for on lending to private commercial banks for the purpose of refinancing
particular municipal project loans to municipalities. A revolving loan fund has been established from
which funds are on-lent to selected banks for on-lending to municipalities and/or their utilities. The
total loan portfolio of LDP earmarked for funding of municipal loans amounts USD 13 million
according to the effective exchange rate (1 USD=0.60 KM). Eligible investments are mostly made in
the following municipal infrastructure and services sectors: water supply, sewage and waste water
treatment, local roads, street lighting, sport halls, markets, municipal building rehabilitation etc. The
maximum amount of approved loans is KM 2 million with a term of up to 10 years. The loans amounts
are from KM 140.000 to KM 2.000.000 (average KM 750,000) and they have financed up to 90
percent of the cost of eligible infrastructure projects.

The LDF funding is made available as loans to the partner banks who receive loan applications from
local governments previously selected for participation in the Project. The banks are responsible for
carrying out an assessment of creditworthiness of municipalities and credit risk of loan applications.
Based on results of the evaluation, banks decide to grant loans to municipalities for municipal



                                                       - 12 -

investment financing assuming all lending risk. The basic requirement of municipal lending within the
LDP is that the banks take the credit risk of municipal loans extended by them. The lending banks
assume full credit risk for repayment of loans granted to municipalities. Accordingly, they make their
own credit analysis and are solely responsible for loan collection. For that purpose the loans to local
governments are additionally secured by mortgage on municipal real property. The reliance on real
property collateral connects municipal lending to other forms of lending with which the banks have
already had experience. It also reflects the policy of banking regulatory authorities, which requires that
banks maintain higher risk-weighted capital ratios for uncollateralized loans.

The interest rate on the LDF loans to banks is determined in the Framework Agreements on
Co-operation and Financing concluded with banks at 4% p.a. However, for the municipal lending
activities is more important so called "a price of loan", that is expressed as an interest rate on bank
loans to municipalities. There has been recorded a significant decrease of this interest rate from
maximum 9% in the first years to 6.5% in the last two years of Project's implementation. The average
interest rate on bank loans to municipalities is somewhere about 7.50% p.a. A downward trend of the
interest rate is continuing. Finally, as a valuable outcome of this component it needs to be emphasized
that repayment rate on municipal loans achieved so far is 100%. This ratio indicates a high quality of
the LDF loan portfolio which has exceeded the expected one (no more than 10% of LDF portfolio at
risk).

Component 4: Project Management

The PIUs have operated under the authority of the RS Development and Employment Foundation (RS
DEF) in Republika Srpska and the Foundation for Sustainable Development (FSD) in the Federation
BiH. The Foundations are established as autonomous, non-profit financial institutions by the
Governments of the RS and FBiH. Each Foundation has its managing board composed of the Entities'
Governments representatives (ministries of finance, local governance, civil-engineering and
housing-communal services), and representatives of the associations of cities and municipalities as well
as banking agencies. The Boards are responsible for approving regulations, policies, procedures and
annual budgets for the Foundations.


II. REALIZATION OF THE PROJECT

A. MAIN CHARACTERISTICS OF THE PROJECT'S REALIZATION

The Local Development Pilot Project (LDP) is one of the first World Bank's truly developmental
projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH). The Project is designed for the purpose of establishing
municipal credit market and improvement of management of local governments in BiH, as an
inducement and a condition for lending from private commercial banks. In the course of its
preparation, it was anticipated that the Project would be implemented during four year time period.
Actually, for its realization and achievement of set goals it was needed two additional years. Having in
mind generally unfavorable state in the Country's economy and particularly in public and banking
sector at the onset of the Project, where a relative lack of creditworthy municipalities and a weakness
and under-capitalization of local banks prevailed, additional time for accomplishment of the objectives



                                                      - 13 -

of Project seems quite reasonable.

The first municipal lending transactions have started two years after the Project's start-up.
Nevertheless, this was almost in accordance with the anticipated Project's implementation plan.
Namely, it was foreseen to carry out capacity building activities of municipalities and banks in the first
two years in order to prepare them for participation in municipal lending. An intensive institution
building program was necessary and fully justified, as was beforehand determined that neither
municipalities had experience in borrowing from banks for financing their infrastructure investments
nor banks had experience in long-term lending to local governments for these purposes.

However, there were some objective external obstacles that have caused a delay in the Project's
execution. In Republika Srpska these obstacles were mainly on the side of banks, so that a slower than
expected privatization of state-owned banks has resulted in a slower selection of banks for
participation in the Project. Finally, one bank has met established criteria and has been included as the
Project's partner bank. As a consequence of such a status, over almost two years, the pace of lending
activities, as well as terms and conditions of loans, were determined by that bank. The situation has
been significantly improved by the end of year 2003, when two another banks were included in
municipal lending activities in the RS. An involvement of these banks has enabled dispersion of credit
risk of the LDF loan portfolio, and has brought advantages of competition between banks in municipal
credit market in nascent.

The lending operations in the Federation BiH were delayed for reasons on the local governments side.
Political considerations at the local level originally played an important role in the slow movement to
loan completion. Besides, an offer of lower­costs sources of financing (donor grants) caused
indecisive attitude toward borrowing among the municipalities in Federation in early years of Project
implementation. Lending operations become better after local governments have received appropriate
technical assistance that helped them to present properly and to prove necessity of borrowing for
realization of infrastructure project to their citizens and municipal councils.

Contrary to the mentioned obstacles, during the entire period of Project's implementation a number of
substantial economic reforms performing in the Country have positively effected its pace and
outcomes (to mention some of them: reform of fiscal and banking system, reform of public accounting
and financial reporting). Besides, the BiH banking sector has been significantly consolidated through
introduction of regularity and governments' and banking agencies' monitoring and regulation
procedures, which further improve an ambiance for lending to public sector institutions (municipalities
and municipal enterprises).

In the same spirit it was designed technical assistance and training program for selected BiH
municipalities. Twenty-eight months program provided by a pool of international and local consultants
is positively assessed by municipalities participating in it, as well as by the PIUs staff responsible for
coordinating the consultants' activities. As a result of these activities financial management practices
and creditworthiness of participating local governments has been considerably improved. Moreover,
participating municipalities are now prepared to easier establish parameters of their creditworthiness
(conduct a self-assessment of creditworthiness) and take measures for increasing it through
improvement of their financial management practices, as well as establish relationships with lending



                                                        - 14 -

banks and negotiate about loan terms and conditions. On the other hand, the LDP participating private
commercial banks are now able to carry out credit analysis that is adequate for the types of loans that
they grant to municipalities. Banks demonstrate ability to make long-term loans to municipalities and
secure repayment of these loans, and thus include and carry out municipal lending and municipal
account management as a profitable line of business in their banking operations.

Although the Project started very slowly and took much longer than expected to accomplish initial
capacity building goals, the implementation of technical assistance and training was mainly assessed as
satisfactory. However, there were some weaknesses as well in rendering the consultants' services,
especially those to banks, but they could not diminish more considerably generally positive
performance of this component of the Project. On the other hand, an excellent and competent
municipal and bank staff who participated in the LDP deserves also credit for achieved good results
and efficient performance. Therefore, we would like to emphasize here that the municipal and bank
officials and officers have given substantial contribution to the successful realization of Project and its
objectives.

The most important component of LDP is the revolving loan fund available for on-lending to banks for
lending to municipalities for financing infrastructure investments. These funds have served as an initial
support to achievement of main development goal of the Project, creation of a small scaled municipal
credit market. More significant progress in that regard is made in the course of the last three years of
Project's implementation. To May 31, 2005, 29 loans are granted and disbursed to municipalities by
five participating banks, which indicates that an actual result of Project's realization exceeded planned
one for the IDA Credit funding period (15-20 municipal loans). An average size of these loans (app.
KM 767,000) is somewhat above anticipated value (KM 700,000). Such an increase of lending volume
is accomplished by an enlargement of the LDF credit funds of Republika Srpska for app. KM 965,000
due to a reallocation of the IDA Credit funds earmarked for financing "consultants' services" to
"sub-loans". The total value of LDF loans is EUR 11 million (USD 13 million equivalent) which
represents about 99.60% of the total loanable funds of the Project (due to the long procurement and
contracting procedure a tiny amount of these funds of 0.40% remained unwithdrawn from the IDA
Credit).

The main quality indicator of LDF loan portfolio is a repayment rate of municipal loans. Although the
lending to municipalities has started just recently, and accordingly these loans are in early repayment
stage, it is noted 100% repayment ratio of municipal loans so far, which is an evidence of a high
quality of the loan portfolio. In the interest of further development and growth of municipal lending
business, it is of essential importance to maintain such a repayment rate level (or close around it). With
multiple review and approval procedures required by the Project, it has been built a reliable lending
system whose participants are aware of their roles and responsibilities. Therefore, we believe there is
enough grounds for expecting that the established credit system continue to realize good performance
indicators all along.

It is worth emphasizing a positive impact of competition among participating banks reflected through
the terms and conditions of municipal loans, particularly expressed in the last two years of Project's
implementation. Banks became very active in their endeavors for attracting municipal clients by
offering them long-term loans under more favorable conditions. This fact could be illustrated by a



                                                       - 15 -

downward tendency of interest rates on loans to municipalities, so that they were about 6.9% in the
Federation BiH and about 8% in the RS in the last year. The average interest rate on bank loans to
municipalities for the entire IDA Credit implementation period is about 7.50% p.a. Further decrease of
interest rates is noted down in the current year as well.

However, the effects of the Project are more impressive when they are presented in quantitative
parameters of investments in infrastructure and services that are financed from loan funds. Although
these investments are modest size from the funding aspect, for the Country with such enormous needs
for financing reconstruction and improvement of existing infrastructure and building of new
infrastructure facilities, the outcomes of investments are extremely significant. The fact that some of
these investments are co-financed from other sources as well, including required contribution of
municipal budget of minimum 10% to app. 50% of investment cost, does not diminish the Project's
effects at all. (More detailed overview of sub-projects financed by municipal loans within the Project is
given in the Attachment I to this Report.)

The development of the Municipal Credit Market in BiH is thus initiated by the Project activities and
although somewhat protracted because of earlier mentioned impediments has nevertheless exceeded
expectations. Given the scope of the Project's goal, the complexity of its components and the
expediency with which implementation had to occur, especially in post-war and transitional conditions
prevalent in BiH, the Project was successful.

As indicated earlier, the Project's key requirement is that participating banks assume full credit risk of
loans extended to municipalities. The other specifics of the LDP lending scheme is that credit line to
lending banks is denominated in Euro (EUR), while credit line to borrowing municipalities is in
domestic currency (KM), which means that such an arrangement involves a foreign currency risk. All
of the loan agreements concluded between banks and municipalities have a provision that assign
foreign currency risk to the municipality, i.e. the municipality is required to repay the loan in local
currency adjusted for the value of Euro. Accordingly, the loan agreements shift the currency risk
exposure that banks have in their loan agreements with the PIUs to the final beneficiaries, municipal
borrowers.

As long as the Central Bank of BiH maintains monetary stability through the Currency Board
arrangement which implies fixed exchange rate of domestic currency to EUR, there is no foreign
currency risk. During Project's implementation the BiH Presidency has adopted decree by which
extended the Currency Board regime to August 2008. As the term of bank loans to municipalities may
expand to 10 years, and even 5 year loans will begin to extend beyond August 2008, this issue might
become critical in the future. Nevertheless, it seems that new Internal Debt Laws expected to be
passed and put in force soon, as well as the Foreign Exchange Operations Laws, will contribute to
resolution of foreign currency risk issue.

During the realization of Project, the PIUs have been included in a work on establishing appropriate
legal and regulatory framework for municipal lending in BiH, as a pre-condition for sound and
responsible municipal borrowing and the development of municipal credit market. Over the time, many
laws relevant for performing municipal lending, especially long-term lending for capital investment
financing, are adopted in the Country and its Entities, like laws on budget system, laws on



                                                     - 16 -

self-governance and laws on banks, so that a basic legal framework is put in place. Moreover, the
Project has financed the paper "BIH Local Development Project Legal and Regulatory Framework",
that has provided recommendations to the governments for drafting necessary legislation for municipal
borrowing. These recommendations are contained in already mentioned laws on incurring debts by
sub-national governments (Internal Debt Laws).

The allowed level of indebtedness, i.e. annual debt service limit on municipal borrowing is presently
set at 10% of total recurring revenues from the previous fiscal year. The same debt limitation is also
proposed in the Debt Laws which has caused objections by the IMF officials in BiH, who consider it
high and potentially endangering for macroeconomic stability of the Country. A long lasting process of
reconciliation of opinions between the IMF and BiH officials is still under way and that is a reason that
these laws are still in adoption procedure. (It is expected that a newly formed working group will
reach an accord on the Internal Debt laws soon and thus create conditions for their adoption and
enforcement.)

B. FUTURE OF MUNICIPAL CREDIT MARKET IN BIH

The evidence of a successful realization of the Local Development Pilot Project in BiH is a municipal
financial market in nascent, as a solution for the self-financing local governments' investments. The
Project has laid foundations for functioning and development of the long-term credit market for local
infrastructure financing in the years to come. The municipal credit market in the near future is likely to
be a modest scale operation, given the small size of municipalities as well as their financial capacity.
Based on our experience gained in the course of the Project's implementation, we do consider that it is
extremely important to continue working with local governments and banks on further development of
the existing capital market of infrastructure financing for the purpose of satisfying citizens needs and
promoting local economic development. Alongside, the debt legislation, when finally is adopted, will
remove present temporary "barriers" on municipal borrowing and thus enhance the prospects for
further development of municipal lending market in the Country.

The wise and appropriate use of credit is of vital importance for local development in the transition
context and is a logical stepping stone for those municipalities, which can demonstrate
creditworthiness to put forward innovative revenue generating projects. Certain municipal
governments are increasingly becoming more professional in regards to financial management and
planning and entrepreneurial in terms of fostering mobilization of resources necessary for development
of domestic municipal credit market. That will additionally increase involvement of private commercial
banks in lending to local governments for maintenance and reconstruction of municipal infrastructure.

There are several advantages on the side of municipalities that make them more attractive for the
banks compared to other bank clients. First, they have stable sources of revenues, mostly from shared
taxes and intergovernmental transfers, as well as their own revenues (taxes, fees, revenues from
property). In the last few fiscal years the majority of municipalities has begun to stabilize their financial
position and to record continuous growth of revenues. Municipalities are good clients of banks since
they are public entities that can not go into bankruptcy. Besides, their management practices,
budgeting (both operating and capital budgeting), accounting and reporting practices were
significantly improved in the last years through implementation of economic reforms and application of



                                                      - 17 -

international standards in these areas. And finally, the lending to municipalities for funding their
infrastructure investments in practice is always linked to management of their bank accounts, as well
as other banking transactions. This is also one aspect of diversification of banks' activities, especially
in the circumstances when banking sector is growing faster than economy, which is a specific feature
of BiH development in the last years.

Recent communications with municipalities and banks in both BiH Entities about their
borrowing/lending intents for the next construction season (2006) have confirmed existence of
continuous needs of local governments' for infrastructure investments as well as strong interest of
commercial banks for having access to the credit line created by the Project. Right upon closure of the
IDA Credit, first loan placement from the credit line/revolving credit funds have started in Republika
Srpska under the same terms and conditions as for the Project's lending. To the date of this Report, a
loan application pipeline is made for the second phase of lending to municipalities that exceeds
available funds from principal repayments collected so far. Following the expressed demand in this
capital market segment, we should actively work on identifying additional financing for expanding the
credit line for municipal lending.

A completion of the pilot phase of Project's implementation and start-up of next phase, the revolving
fund transactions, is a crucial moment for operations of the revolving credit fund in the future, as well
as a transformation of the existing PIUs. There are several conceptions of institutional arrangement for
credit line transactions, but the decision regarding optimal solution for future operations will make our
governments soon. Some initiatives in that direction are already taken. Namely, an adoption of a
specific law on legal status of the Republika Srpska Development and Employment Foundation is
under way. Since there are two other credit lines, beside the municipal lending credit line, that are
created from the respective World Bank's projects (Local Initiatives Project I and II, and Private
Sector Credit I and II), the most appropriate solution is one that enables continuation of their
operations within the existing Foundation. The Foundation will be legally institutionalized as a
specialized non-banking financial institutions, that will provide specialized funding for domestic
commercial banks involved in transactions of the mentioned credit lines.

In the context of planning of future operations of the Foundation and management of the credit lines
funds, the staff responsible for their administering prepared adequate projections of cash-flows in the
period 2005-2036, by when the respective IDA Credits will be repaid. The net result of financial
projections clearly indicates that the revolving funds operations are self-financing and sustainable in
the long run. The total funding at the Foundation's disposal in year 2036 will remain at about the same
level as in year 2005 and all IDA Credits will be repaid.

There are other options as well. The LDP credit funds have been established as revolving funds and
there is possibility to extend this credit line with same approach and same procedures in the entire
country. The new Fund should be transparent and open for cooperation with other investors and
donors. The municipalities that are not "strong" enough yet through this enlarged, revolving credit line
will be prepared to participate in commercial credit market in future and use other available resources
also.

The sustainability of municipal lending revolving fund operations is certainly more complex issue and



                                                       - 18 -

depends on many different factors, whose effects are difficult to recognize now and almost impossible
to predict in the future. Besides, the years to come will bring some new elements into the municipal
financing system, e.g. introduction of VAT instead of sales tax from January 1, 2006, debt laws, etc. It
seems however more likely that they will further improve the environment for local governments
lending according to experience from the neighboring countries (Croatia and Serbia and Monte
Negro).

Over the last World Bank's supervision missions, there was regularly on the agenda a consideration of
possible directions for further development and growth of credit market for local governments in BiH.
In order to maintain the existing market and eventually expand it for the purpose of satisfying funding
needs of municipalities' investments, it is inevitably to try to increase funds and volume of lending
through: (1) enlargement of credit line by merging with other sources of financing (e.g. other financing
institutions in the Country etc.); and (2) requirement for higher level of co-financing of municipal loans
from lending banks. Concerning the first proposal, some international institutions and foreign-owned
banks which have extensive experience in lending to municipal governments elsewhere in the region
have already confirmed their interest for an entry into the emerging municipal credit market in BiH
(e.g. USAID Municipal Credit Initiative and KfW Municipal Borrowing scheme). Despite their
announcement of intents in BiH, they did not realize any significant outcome in the lending to
municipalities so far, which opens an opportunity for collaboration in this field. It would be of essential
importance for achieving the lasting success in municipal lending activities to establish mutual
cooperation on the grounds of utilization of our funds and practical experience with their funds
dedicated for lending to local governments in BiH.


III. EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF THE DONORS

A. The World Bank
The World Bank has played a main role in the initiation of the Local Development Pilot Project by
developing the Project's design, providing a major part of financing and by lobbying the governments
of Italy and the Netherlands for providing additional funding for the Project (donations). Throughout
the Project's implementation, the World Bank has provided leadership in helping our management
team to manage the Project adequately and towards accomplishment of its ambitious development
objectives.

A lack of practical experience of the main stakeholders of the LDP, especially in early years of its
realization, was overcoming by pragmatic approach of the World Bank's task team staff. Their
expertise and experience in building municipal financing systems for infrastructure financing was
fundamental input in the realization of Project in BiH. Considering the great challenges we were facing
in the beginning, we have to stress that without the involvement of Bank it would be very difficult (if
not impossible) to avoid some general obstacles and risks, and to develop adequate solutions for
responding to them. Its authority has enabled mitigating certain misunderstandings between
international consultants and us and facilitated our collaboration with them. Lessons learnt in assisting
the countries worldwide to establish appropriate sub-national governments capital markets, the World
Bank has successfully applied in BiH as its contribution to efficient realization of the Project's
objectives. We would therefore like to emphasize once again that the World Bank's leadership, an



                                                     - 19 -

immense experience and permanent support provided to our team, was the key factor of achieving
success in completion of the Project in BiH.

B.    Government of Italy (Italian Trust Fund)
Italian Trust Funds in the amount of USD 0.885 were available for co-financing the LDP through
financing consultants services to municipalities and banks participating in the Project. As was
mentioned above, the credit for providing this donation as well as the Dutch one deserves the World
Bank staff. Thank to these donations for financing category "consultants services", it was enabled
increase of funds available for "sub-loans" funding in Republika Srpska.

C. Government of Netherlands (Dutch Trust Fund)
Dutch Trust Funds in the amount of USD 0.4 million were limited to financing consultants services to
participating local governments in Republika Srpska.




                                                    - 20 -

OVERVIEW OF MUNICIPAL LOANS GRANTED TO MAY 31, 2005




                   - 21 -

  MUNICIPALITY                    PURPOSE OF LOAN /                         LOAN           LENDING          LOAN      INTEREST
                                  SUB-PROJECT TITLE                        AMOUNT            BANK           TERM        RATE

LAKTASI        Reconstruction of Water Supply System ­ Phase I                 500,000     LHB Bank         5 years      9%

BANJA LUKA I   Rehabilitation of Street Lighting System in the City          1,500,000     LHB Bank         5 years      9%

BIJELJINA      Reconstruction of Local Road Network                           800,000      LHB Bank         4 years
                                                                                                                         9%
DOBOJ          Reconstruction of Local Road Network                           800,000      LHB Bank         4 years      9%
PRNJAVOR       Reconstruction of Water and Sewage Network                     600,000      LHB Bank         5 years
                                                                                                                         9%
GRADISKA       Reconstruction of Water and Sewage Network ­ Protection of     500,000  Nova Bank Bijeljina  7 years
               Water Source Area                                                                                         9%

SRBAC          Reconstruction of Local Road Network                           400,000    Raiffeisen Bank    5 years     8.5%
                                                                                              BiH

SAMAC          Construction of Water Supply Well; Reconstruction of Sewage     350,000 Nova Bank Bijeljina  5 years
               Network; and Rehabilitation of High School Building                                                       8%

KOZ. DUBICA    Construction of Main Collector of Sewage System ­ Phase I       176,896   Raiffeisen Bank    5 years     8.5%
                                                                                              BiH
NOVI GRAD      Reconstruction of Local Road Network                           700,000    Raiffeisen Bank    7 years     8.5%
                                                                                              BiH
LJUBINJE       Construction of Waste Water Treatment Device of Sewage         300,000  Nova Bank Bijeljina  5 years      8%
               System
TREBINJE       Construction of Collectors of Sewage Network ­ Phase II        262,621  Nova Bank Bijeljina  5 years      8%

BANJA LUKA II  Reconstruction of Local Road Network in Rural Areas of the    1,301,920 Nova Bank Bijeljina  10 years    7.9%
               City

ODZAK          Reconstruction of Local Road Network                           140,000   Zagrebacka Bank     7 years      9%

ODZAK          Construction of Water Supply System                            260,000 Zagrebacka Bank       7 years      9%
KISELJAK       Reconstruction of Local Road Network                           400,000   Zagrebacka Bank     8 years     7.5%

BOSANSKA KRUPA Reconstruction of Local Road Network                           300,000    Universal Bank     8 years      8%

NEUM           Construction of Water Supply System                            500,000   Zagrebacka Bank     7 years      8%

TUZLA UTILITY  Building of Flower Market                                      150,000   Zagrebacka Bank     5 years      9%

TUZLA          Reconstruction of Local Road Network                          1,120,000      UniCredit       7 years     6.5%
                                                                                        Zagrebacka Bank
TUZLA          Reconstruction of Local Road Network                           190,000       UniCredit       7 years     6.5%
                                                                                        Zagrebacka Bank
TUZLA          Reconstruction of Water Supply System                         1,369,511     UniCredit/       7 years     6.5%
                                                                                        Zagrebacka Bank

GRACANICA      Reconstruction of Local Road Network; Control of River         700,000    Universal Bank     5.5 years    8%
               Channel; and Supply of Garbage Containers
TESANJ         Construction of Sport Hall                                     750,000    Universal Bank     4.5 years    8%

SANSKI MOST    Reconstruction of Sewage System                               1,900,000      UniCredit       10 years    7.5%
                                                                                        Zagrebacka Bank
GRUDE          Construction of Water Supply System                           2,000,000      UniCredit       10 years    6.5%
                                                                                        Zagrebacka Bank
SIROKI BRIJEG  Construction of Water Supply System                           1,700,376      UniCredit       10 years    6.5%
                                                                                        Zagrebacka Bank

LJUBUSKI       Construction of Water Supply System                           1,950,000      UniCredit       10 years    6.5%
                                                                                        Zagrebacka Bank

ILIJAS         Construction of Sport Hall                                     700,000       UniCredit       7 years     6.8%
                                                                                        Zagrebacka Bank

               TOTAL:                                                       22,321,324




                                                            - 22 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
Bank-administered Trust Fund resources from the Governments of Italy and Holland were used
for consultants services. Since there was no contact with the donors other standard financial
reporting no attempt to solicit their opinion about this project was made.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):



10. Additional Information




                                                - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                              Actual/Latest Estimate
* participating municipalities demonstrate     Technical assistance and training provided to Technical assistance and training provided to
improved financial management capacities       15 - 30 municipalities to build the institutional 31 municipalities to build their institutional
and improved citizen accountability            and financial capacity in preparation for         and financial capacity in preparation for
                                               commercial borrowing.                             commercial borrowing. Most receiving
                                                                                                 training were able to demonstrate to banks
                                                                                                 that the financial management capacities
                                                                                                 were sufficiently improved to warrant a loan.
                                                                                                 The LDFs independently reviewed feasibility
                                                                                                 studies which confirmed mechanism for
                                                                                                 consultations with citizens.
* pilot PCBs demonstrate improved municipal Training provided to 5 PCBs. 18 loans                Training provided to 4 PCBs. 28 loans
on-lending abilities                           approved for a total amount of KM 13 million. approved for a total amount of KM 22.3
 -- no. of banks that implement high quality                                                     million. Banks receiving training were able to
municipal lending practices                                                                      underwrite loans to municipalities and loans
 -- no. and value of loans disbursed                                                             have proven to be of high quality.
 -- loans to values increase and/or negative
covenants decrease
* measurable improvements in the quantity      Measurable improvements in the quantity and PCBs approved 28 loans to municipalities
and quality of municipal infrastructure        quality of municipal infrastructure, PCBs         and their utility companies. The types of
                                               approve a total of 18 loans for capital           projects financed include: reconstruction of
                                               investments by local governments and their        street lighting in Banja Luka; rehabilitation of
                                               utilities.                                        local road network in ten municipalities;
                                                                                                 building and reconstruction of water supply
                                                                                                 systems in nine municipalities; reconstruction
                                                                                                 of sewage network in four municipalities;
                                                                                                 construction of nine water basins;
                                                                                                 construction of three water pump stations;
                                                                                                 reconstruction of five cross-roads in two
                                                                                                 municipalities; building of two sports hall and
                                                                                                 building of flower market.
* high loan repayment with no more than 10     High loan repayment rate with no more than 5 As of November 18, 2005 there were no
percent of the LDF loan portfolio at risk (60  % of the LDF portfolio at risk (60 days past      loans overdue. Repayment rate is 100% (0%
days past due)                                 due).                                             PAR).


Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                              Actual/Latest Estimate
15-30 local government units (LGUs) trained 20 LGUs meet the project financial                   31 local governments received training and
in improved financial management and public management and public participation                  technical assistance designed to improve
participation in the capital budgeting process.standards.                                        their financial management performance,
Number of LGUs that meet the project                                                             public consultation practices and strengthen
financial management and public                                                                  their capacities in project identification and
participation standards.                                                                         preparation. All borrowers met financial
                                                                                                 management and public participation
                                                                                                 standards.
3-5 PCBs trained in municipal lending and      5 PCBs trained. 18 municipal loans approved 4 PCBs trained. 28 municipal loans approved
municipal loan portfolio management.           by 5 PCBs                                         by 4 PCBs. Please note that 5 PCBs have
a. no.of PCBs trained in municipal credit                                                        been approved as participating commercial
analysis and portfolio management.                                                               banks under the project. However, two of
b. no.of PCBs implementing sound municipal                                                       those (Zagrebacka bank and Universal bank)
lending policies and procedures                                                                  merged into UniCredit Zagrebacka bank thus
                                                                                                 reducing number of PCBs to 4. This merger
                                                                                                 is a welcome step forward in strengthening
                                                                                                 the overall banking sector in Bosnia and
                                                                                                 Herzegovina.
10-20 LDF loans disbursed to LGUs for          18 loans approved for a total amount of KM        28 loans approved for a total of KM 22.3
investment in municipal infrastructure and     13.09 million (US 7.6 million)                    million (US$ 13.3. million).
services. No.and value of loans disbursed




                                                                  - 24 -

1End of project




                   - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Local Government Capacity Building                           2.60             1.44              55
Banking Sector Capacity Building                             1.00             0.85              85
Local Development Fund                                      12.50           13.25              112
LDF Management Support                                       0.90             1.40             155

Total Baseline Cost                                         17.00           16.94
                        Total Project Costs                 17.00           16.94
                  Total Financing Required                  17.00           16.94


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         0.10          0.00          0.10
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.10)          (0.00)       (0.10)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Sub-Loans                      2.50              8.70         1.30          0.00         12.50
                                  (2.50)           (8.00)      (1.30)          (0.00)       (11.80)
5. Consultant Services            0.00              0.00         3.60          0.00          3.60
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.30)          (0.00)       (2.30)
6. Operating Exepnditures         0.00              0.00         0.80          0.00          0.80
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.80)          (0.00)       (0.80)
   Total                          2.50              8.70         5.80          0.00         17.00
                                  (2.50)           (8.00)      (4.50)          (0.00)       (15.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00             0.00         0.19           0.00         0.19
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.19)         (0.00)       (0.19)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Sub-Loans                      0.00             0.00        13.25           0.00        13.25
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)      (13.25)         (0.00)       (13.25)


                                                - 26 -

  5. Consultant Services                   0.00               0.00              2.29             0.00              2.29
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.04)            (0.00)           (1.04)
  6. Operating Exepnditures                0.00               0.00              1.21             0.00              1.21
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.21)            (0.00)           (1.21)
      Total                                0.00               0.00             16.94             0.00             16.94
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (15.69)            (0.00)           (15.69)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Local Government               1.30         0.00         1.30        0.44         0.00       1.00       33.8      0.0      76.9
Capacity Building
Banking Sector Capacity        1.00         0.00         0.00        0.60         0.00       0.25       60.0      0.0       0.0
Building
Local Development Fund        11.80         0.00         0.70       13.25         0.00       0.00       112.3     0.0       0.0
LDF Management Support         0.90         0.00         0.00        1.40         0.00       0.00       155.6     0.0       0.0




                                                          - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              01/12/1998                8    TEAM LEADER (1)                  S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1)
                                             CONSULTANTS (4)
              04/15/1998                8    TEAM LEADER (1)                  S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
                                             CONSULTANTS (4)
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/27/1998                9    TEAM LEADER (1)                  S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1)
                                             CONSULTANTS (4)
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPEICALIST (1)
              11/09/1998                7    TEAM LEADER (1)                  S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
                                             CONSULTANTS (4)
              03/04/1999                8    TEAM LEADER (1)                  S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1)
                                             OPERATION ANALYST (1)
                                             CONSULTANT (4)

 Supervision

              11/12/1999                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              02/25/2000                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)
              07/21/2000                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              12/06/2000                3    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             LEAD ECONOMIST (1)
              07/03/2001                3    OUTGOING TEAM LEADER             S               S
                                             (1); NEW TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             TEAM MEMBER (1)



                                              - 29 -

               04/25/2002              2   TEAM LEADER (1); TEAM              S    S
                                           MEMBER (1)
               09/20/2002              2   TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                           SUPERVISION (1)


 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           33.50                     138,075.99
  Appraisal/Negotiation                33.50                     138,075.99
  Supervision                        131.40                      457,992.55

  ICR                                   8.00                      18,976.45
  Total                                                          753,120.98




                                            - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Loan Application Form for Local Development Fund, Bosnia and Herzegovina, February
     23, 2003
2.   LDP Loan Pipeline and Closed Loans as of January 2003
3.   BiH Local Development Fund (LDF) Loans for Municipal Infrastructure Projects,
     February 23, 2003
4.   Information Checklist for Banks, February 23, 2003
5.   ARCADIS/BMB in Association with Cowater International, Local Development Pilot
     Project, Local Government Capacity Building Component,
     Final Report, September 2002
6.   ARCADIS/BMB in Association with Cowater International, Local Development Pilot
     Project, Progress covering planned activities and objectives in
     the extension period, September 2002




                                            - 33 -

- 34 -

