Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 18643 BH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1 1.1 MILLION
TO
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FOR A
LOCAL DEVELOPMENT PILOT PROJECT
March 12, 1999
Urban Group
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Convertibile Mark (KM); equivalent 1:1 to Deutsche Mark
1 KM= 1 DM=US$0.55
FISCAL YEAR
Januarv 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BiH        Bosnia and Herzegovina
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
EC         European Commission
FBA        Federation Banking Agency
FIB        Federation Investment Bank
FY         Fiscal Year
IAS        International Accounting Standards
ICB        Intemational Competitive Bidding
ICMA       International City/County Management Association
IDA        International Development Association
iS        International Shopping
KM         Convertibile Mark
LDF        Local Development Fund
LGU        Local Government Unit
MW         Minor Works
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NS         National Shopping
OSCE       Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
PCB        Private Conmmercial Bank
PFSAC      Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credit
PIU        Project Implementation Unit
PMR        Project Management Report
PWEP       Public Works and Employment Project
RETF       RS Employment and Training Foundation
RS         Republika Srpska
SOE        Statement of Expenses
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
USAID      U.S. Agency for International Development
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Christiaan Poortmann, ECCO4
Sector Director: Ricardo Halperin, ECSIN
Sector Leader: Margret Thalwitz, ECSIN
Task Team Leader: Sarah Forster, ECCBA



Bosnia and Herzegovina
Local Development Pilot Project
CONTENTS
A: PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE .........................................................................                                          .
1. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ............................................ 2
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT .......................................................................... 
1. SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE SrRATEGY (CAS) GOAL SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT ..........2
2. MAIN  SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY .......................................................................                                 3
3. SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES ....................................... 6
C: PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY ..........................................................................
1. PROJECT COMPONENTS .......................................................................                                                        7...
2. KEY POLICY  AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORMS SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT ............................................. 9
3. BENEFITS AND  TARGET POPULATION .......................................................................                                            9...
4. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS: .................................................................... 10
D: PROJECT RATIONALE ........................................................................ 1.
1. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION ......................                                           ............................ 13
2. MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES .......... 14
3. LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN ................................................................ 14
4. INDICATIONS OF BORROWER COMMITMENT AND  OWNERSHIP ................................................................ 15
5. VALUE ADDED  OF BANK  SUPPORT IN  THIS PROJECT .......................................................................                             L5
E: SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS ......................................................................... 
1. ECONOMIC .........................................................................  L5..
2. FINANCIAL ............................................................................ L
3. TEcHNICAL ..............................
4. INSTITUTIONAL ..........                                                                                                                          16..
5. SOCAL    .1....... 16
6. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT .................................                                                                                       1.7.
7. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH .................................                                                                                          17.
F: SUSTAJNABILITY AND RISKS ................................... 1.7.
1. SUSTAINABILITY .................................                                                                                                  17..
2. CRITICAL RISKS ................................... 18
3. POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS .................................                                                                                 L8
G: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS .................................                                                                                                18.
1. EFFECTIVENESS CONDITIONS .................................                                                                                        18.
2. OTHER ....................................
H. READ                   I NESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION ..................................                                                                  19
I. COMPLIANCE  WITH   BANK  POLICIIES .................................                                                                                 19



ANNEXES
ANNEx 1: PROJECT DESIGN S                                UMMARY ...........................................................   2.
ANNEX 2: PROJECT DESCRIPTION ...........................................................                                                                          21.
ANNEX 2.1: ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FORPARTICIPATING MUNICIPALITIES/UTILITIES ............................... 24
ANNEX  2.2: ELIGIBILITY  CRITERIA  FORPARTICIPATING  BANKS ..........................................................   2.6
ANNEx 3: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS ...........................................................2 7.
ANNEx 4: INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS ..........................................................                                                                    29
ANNEX 5: APPRAISAL OF FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARIES .........................................o.............. 30
ANNEx  6: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT  ARRANGEMENTS .......................................................... 32
ANNEX 7: PUBLIC INFORMATION AND CONSULTATION STRATEGY .......................................................... 42
ANNEX 8: PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE ..........................................................                                                          44
ANNEx 9: DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE ..........................................................                                                                  45.
ANNEX 10: STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS ..........................................................                                                               46
ANNEx  11: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE ...........................................................                                                                        48.



Bosnia and Herzegovina
Local Development Pilot Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Bosnia and Herzegovina Country Unit
Date: March 12, 1999                              Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Sarah Forster
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan Poortman     Sector Manager/Director: Ricardo Halperin
Project ID: BA-PE-56192   Sector: Urban Development/ Program  Objective Category: Economic Management/
Municipal Finance         Private Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan      Program of Targeted Intervention:    [ I Yes [X] No
Project Financing Data              [I   Loan   [XI  Credit   [I   Guarantee  [J    Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): SDR 11.1 million (US$15 million equivalent)
Proposed tenns:                        [1   Multicurrency     f   Single currency, specify
Grace period (years):    10            [I  Standard Variable  [   Fixed            [    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:       35
Commitment fee:          Standard IDA
Service charge:          Standard IDA
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                             Local              Foreign            Total
Government "'                                       1.5               0.0                 1.5
Cofinanciers2'                                      0.0                2.0                2.0
IDA                                                11.1                3.9               15.0
Total                                               12.6               5.9               18.5
1/ Govermment contribution comprises 10 percent sub-project cofinancing by sub-borrowers and contribution to LDF operating costs.
2/ Donor cofinancing in an amount of at least US$2 million is expected to be mobilized.
Borrower: State of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with on-lending to the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska.
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agencies: Federation and Republika Srpska Local Development Funds
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    1999      2000        2001       2002   2003
Annual                                    0.2         1.0        5.1        5.4    3.3
Cumulative                                0.2         1.2        6.3        11.7   15.0
For Guarantees:                                   [    Partial credit   [  Partial risk
Project implementation period: 4 years Expected effectiveness date: May 1999 Expected closing date: May 2003



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project has two main development objectives:
* to strengthen the institutional and financial capacity of local governments in Bosnia and
Herzegovina (BiH) so as to enable them to provide improved municipal infrastructure and
services in response to citizen demand and to help stimulate local economic growth.
*  to initiate, on a pilot basis, the development of a municipal credit market to provide a long-term
source of financing for creditworthy municipalities for infrastructure investment.
Key performance indicators include:
* Participating municipalities demonstrate improved financial management capabilities.
* Pilot PCBs demonstrate improved municipal credit on-lending abilities.
* Measurable improvements in the quantity and quality of municipal infrastructure.
* High loan repayment rate reflected in high quality loan portfolio -- no more than 10 percent of
LDF portfolio at risk (60 days past due).
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16866-BIH   Date of latest CAS discussion: August 6, 1998
Local governments (cantons, cities and municipalities) are important economic players inBiH, the locus
of reconstruction activity and refugee return, with responsibility for provision of basic services and
infrastructure at the municipal level. As such, they face huge demands as they try to meet the needs of
existing and returning communities. Yet, BiH local governments and their utility companies are
institutionally and financially weak. Post-conflict reconstruction has focused on emergency infrastructure
rehabilitation with little attention to building local institutional capacity and the institutional and financial
systems to support long-term economic growth and development.
Tlhis project will support the shift from emergency, post-conflict reconstruction to sustainable economic
growth and development, which is the main strategic goal of the Country Assistance Strategy. The
project contributes to all three development themes of the CAS - strengthening public finance
management, private sector development in support of the transition to a market economy, and deepening
the sustainability of reconstruction:
* strengthening public finance management - technical assistance will be provided to municipal
governments to improve their financial management skills, particularly in the areas of capital
planning and budgeting, accounting and financial management. The project will provide an incentive
for local governments to implement new government accounting standards and improve their
financial management practices by making LDF loan eligibility conditional on reaching agreed
standards of financial management and creditworthiness.
*  private sector development - under the project, selected local commercial banks will be provided with
technical assistance in municipal credit analysis and project appraisal, so building their capacity to
provide long-term financing for municipal investment projects. By channeling loan funds through
local banks, the project aims to lay the foundation for the development of a local, private sector
municipal credit market.
*  deepening the sustainability of reconstruction - the project will improve the financial sustainability of
reconstruction by assisting municipal governments and their utilities improve their financial planning
and tariff setting practices so as to increase cost recovery levels. Participation of local citizens in
investment decision-making will further improve sustainability by building local ownership of capital
investment decisions and increased willingness to pay for improved services.



3
2 Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Local Government Structure and Fiscal Relations
The Washington Agreement of March 1994 and the Dayton Peace Agreement of December 1995
describes the governmental framework for Bosnia-Herzegovina. Under this framework, the central
government of Bosnia and Herzegovina has limited powers, related to foreign policy, foreign trade, debt
service administration and inter-Entity matters. The central government has minimal centralized
spending power (10 percent of total government revenue in FY98) and no central taxes or redistributive
role. The majority of government functions are assigned to the two Entities, the Bosniak-Croat
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republika Srpska. All taxes are collected at the Entity
level and the Entities are responsible for almost all spending, including defense, education, health,
pensions, social assistance, and infrastructure.
Local government structures differ within the two Entities. In the Federation, governmental functions are
divided between three levels: Entity, Canton and Municipality. The Cantons have been created as a new
regional level of government with considerable revenue and expenditure power and autonomy in
decision-making. There are also two city governments in the Federation - Sarajevo and Mostar. In
Republika Srpska (RS), govermmental functions are divided between two levels: Entity and Municipality.
The RS Government is considering the establishment of 8 "counties". However, if established, these are
likely to have a more limited role and revenue-raising power than the Cantons of the Federation.
In the Federation, Cantons are assigned revenues from sales tax, income tax and corporate profit tax'.
Municipal revenues are subject to determination by the cantons. Most cantons have followed the
Federation recommendation and allocated 20 percent of the sales and income taxes to the municipalities
where they are collected. Some cantons have stabilized this practice by passing cantonal legislation,
while others make the distribution as part of the annual budget process. In RepublikaSrpska, a number of
laws govern revenue assignments to the municipalities. For example, municipalities are assigned 26
percent of personal income tax and 30 percent of sales tax. However, overall municipal revenues have a
similar level in both Entities.
The Federation Cantons are assigned responsibility for cantonal institutions, health care, education,
culture, social needs, and "other needs as determined by the canton authority." Municipal responsibilities
are similar in both Entities. Generally speaking, municipalities are responsible for maintaining and
operating municipal infrastructure and services (water, sewage, street cleaning etc.) through municipal
utility companies2.  In smaller municipalities, one company provides multiple services. In larger
municipalities, separate utility companies provide individual services, e.g. water supply, treatment and
distribution, solid waste removal, street cleaning and park and cemetery maintenance. Currently, these
utility companies are municipally-owned and have varying degrees of local government control and
dependence on government budget subsidies. However, the strategy of both Entity governments is to
encourage increasing cost recovery and develop municipal utility companies as autonomous, self-
financing commercially-oriented enterprises that may eventually be privatized. Municipal governments
are also responsible for social assistance, pre-school and child care, as well as urban planning and
regulation of commercial activities.
1 In the Federation, revenue and expenditures assignments are governed by the "Law Regarding The Allocation Of
Public Revenue in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina" approved in late 1996.
2 If a municipality has a majority population different from that of the Canton as a whole, the Cantonal government
is obliged to delegate to that municipality all functions concerning education, culture, local business and media as
well.



4
Local Government Creditworthiness
As part of project appraisal, a study was carried out to assess the degree of creditworthiness and demand
for credit by local govemments. The study assessed the financial, economic and management capacity of
all ten cantons in the Federation, seven municipalities in the Federation and seven municipalities in
Republika Srpska3. The main findings of this study are as follows:
* The economic and financial conditions for local government are gradually improving and appear to
be stabilizing. A number of jurisdictions show strong increases in revenue flows since 1996. This
reflects not only growth in underlying economic activity but further strengthening of tax compliance.
Based on this initial assessment, about one-third of the sample jurisdictions appeared to be potentially
creditworthy, although more in-depth analysis is required to confirm this.
* The financial and management capabilities of local governments within BiH are weak. Most
municipalities have limited internal ability to assess financial conditions and local borrowing
capacity. Furthermore, an understanding of the realities of commercial borrowing has not yet been
inculcated into government perspectives and practices.
* Existing government accounting, budgeting and financial reporting requirements are insufficient to
allow an in-depth analysis of creditworthiness. Fiscal imbalances are obfuscated by cash (non-
accrual) accounting practices. However, both Entity governments are putting in place new modified
accrual accounting and reporting standards, as well as a budget classification scheme, that will help
address these issues.
- Municipal utilities still need legal and institutional restructuring and improvements in cost recovery.
Many municipal utilities have deferred service improvements and investments in long overdue
maintenance. Currently, municipal utility companies are considered to be poor credit risks on their
own given the relatively low levels of cost recovery. Hence, loans to utilities will likely need to be
secured by general obligation pledges from the municipal budget.
Municipal Credit Market and Lending Risks
There is at present no long-termn lending available to local governments. Even short-to-intermediate
lending (two years or longer) is virtually non-existent. The only lending BiH banks provide to
municipalities are cash management loans (month-to-month loans to cover cash flow shortfalls) and even
these are rare.
Yet the capital needs of local governments in post-war Bosnia and Herzegovina are enormous. Direct
war damage combined with years of inadequate maintenance and lack of new capital investment has led
to a substantial backlog of investment requirements. Emergency assistance provided by donors has
contributed to significant infrastructure repairs throughout the country. However, such donor financing
will diminish over the coming years and will far from meet the needs for local infrastructure investment.
Hence, local governments will increasingly need to generate their own resources for infrastructure
investment or secure access to long-term financing.
The Entity Governments have provided local governments with the legal power to borrow for capital
investment purposes provided it does not exceed a certain level of debt servicing capacity. In the
Federation, this power is provided for under the "The Law of the Budgets in the Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina" adopted in April 1998, Article 39 of which states that "Cantons, cities and municipalities
may borrow from domestic and foreign sources for the purpose of financing a capital investment
expenditure....". The law sets a limit that annual debt service of principal and interest may not exceed 20
percent of annual revenues. A similar budget law with the authorization for municipalities to borrow for
capital investment purposes is currently under parliamentary review inRepublika Srpska and is expected
3See "Local Government Creditworthiness in BIH Study", October 1998 by Larry Seale for further detail, available
in the project files.



5
to be adopted shortly. The World Bank will not approve any lending to municipalities in RS under the
Project until this law is passed.
Other Donor-Financed Municipal Development Programs
Several other donors have programs which are complementary to the Local Development Project. Under
its Municipal Infrastructure and Services (MIS) Project, in 1999, the U.S. Agency for International
Development (USAID) will focus on institutional strengthening and restructuring of municipal utility
companies through a series of workshops and direct technical assistance to a selected number of pilot
municipal utility companies. Assistance will help the utilities restructure to a more corporate structure
and improve management and technical skills and cost recovery capacity.
The European Commission (EC)-Phare is supporting a "Water Sector Institution Building Program" that
supports legal and institutional reform of the water sector at the State and Entity level. The program has
five components: legal, institutional, water quality, financing and cost recovery, and human resources
development. In the area of financing and cost recovery, EC-Phare is financing a number of pilot projects
to improve the commercial operation and financial management of water utility companies including the
gradual introduction of total metering and charging of cost-related tariffs.
The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), as part of its governance program, is
sponsoring a "Municipal Infrastructure Finance and Implementation Training" which links training on
municipal finance with providing municipal actors with tools to assist them overcome local political
conflicts and build public support and consensus for municipal decisions. The municipal finance training
is being provided by the International City/County Management Association (ICMA) through a series of
workshops scheduled from Dec 1998 - May 1999.
All these agencies are supportive of the project and see it as providing a source of financing for those
municipalities and utilities that demonstrate their creditworthiness, which will help provide leverage to
their own TA efforts. Technical assistance provided under the Local Development Project (LDP) will not
replicate TA provided by other donors, but rather fill the gaps. For example, the LDP will focus primarily
on technical assistance to municipalities and local banks, rather than to utilities which is largely covered
by the USAID and EC-Phare programs.
Capacity of the Local Banking Sectors to Intermediate Local Government Lending
The banking sector in both the Federation and the RS is weak.  The majority of banks are
undercapitalized and there is little long-term lending in any sector. The ratio of bank deposits to GDP in
BiH is less than 10 percent as compared to approximately 50 percent in most other Eastern European
economies. Most banks suffer from liquidity problems and currently rely on credit lines from donors as
their main source of lending.
BiH is over-banked in terms of the number of banks registered, yet the level of banking and, in particular,
lending services are inadequate to support the recovery of the economy. There are currently 55 licensed
banks operating in the Federation, 13 of which are majority owned by state-owned enterprises. These
state-owned banks hold over 77 per cent of total banking assets in the Federation. In the RS, there are 15
banks, 11 of which are majority-owned by state enterprises. The four largest of these control two-thirds
of all RS bank assets. Private banks in both Entities were generally created during or after the war and
currently have limited nominal amounts of assets and capital.
Hence, today, commercial banks do not satisfy the demand for longer-term municipal infrastructure loans.
This is because: i) deposits are small and an unreliable source of financing, ii) medium and long-term
debt cannot be financed with the current modest levels of domestic savings; and iii) commercial banks
are generally short of equity capital which inevitably imposes constraints on their business volumes. As



6
the funding sources to which the Federation and RS have access are short-term only, extending long-term
credit would expose the banks to high liquidity and interest rate risks. These funding constraints are
reflected in the term structures of the banks loan portfolios. The vast majority of bank loans have terms
of up to one year maximum. Loans with terms of more than one-year are extremely rare. Federation and
RS banks also lack the expertise required to analyze municipal and utility credit risk.
Since 1995, a financial sector reform program has been underway in BiH in which the World Bank has
been actively involved. This includes financial sector reforms to improve banking laws and regulations,
strengthen bank supervision, establish deposit insurance systems, and limit public intervention in credit
markets, as well as the restructuring and privatization of state-owned commercial banks. All majority
state-owned banks will undergo a solvency test by the Entity Banking Agencies. Those banks determined
to be solvent must be privatized by June 2000. This privatization process is likely to lead to the
consolidation and strengthening of the banking sector. The development of fewer, larger, stronger banks
is a positive factor for the LDP. Although, the state of flux of the banking sector underlines the need to
select participating banks extremely carefully.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
There are two sets of sector issues that will be addressed by the project:
(i) Municipal Creditworthiness
The primary impediments to establishing municipal creditworthiness are the low levels of municipal
revenues, local governments' inability to identify and prepare bankable projects, the lack of an established
credit record, and underdeveloped legislation regarding a municipality's ability to borrow and secure
loans for capital investment purposes.
Ongoing work under the Public Finance Structural Adjustment Credit (PFSAC) operations is of direct
relevance to the LDP in the area of local government revenues. One of the objectives of the proposed
PFSAC II, currently under preparation, is to rationalize local government revenue and expenditure
assignments among different levels of government and to enhance municipal own source revenues e.g.
through development of a property tax system. This work should support greater rationalization of fiscal
decentralization in BiH and provide for higher levels and greater stability of municipal revenues.
As regards preparing bankable projects, the LDP will provide technical assistance to help municipalities
analyze their financial position and prepare bankable projects that are in-line with their debt servicing
capacity.
In regards to credit risk, a principal objective of the pilot project is to reduce municipal credit risk so
encouraging private banks to lend for municipal investment. The credit risk involved in lending to
utilities and/or municipalities will be reduced by: (i) requiring full disclosure of a municipality's current
and projected financial condition; (ii) careful financial appraisal by the lender of the municipality's ability
to repay the loan under different revenue assumptions; (iii) identifying secure forms of municipal
guarantees (land, property, municipal and/or utility revenue); (iv) requiring ageneral obligation pledge
from the borrowing municipality; and (v) introducing liens on intergovernmental revenues as a form of
guarantee. Overall, the LDP aims to provide the banks the necessary risk management tools to move
away from real property as the only source of collateral.4 Under the project, liens on inter-governmental
revenues will be introduced as a form of credit enhancement. Under this system, a local government that
borrows capital funds must enter into a contractual agreement with the bank allowing it to divert
municipal revenue transfers from the canton or Entity in the event the municipality does not repay its loan
4 There is a natural inclination to secure loans with tangible property--such as land or buildings. This is appropriate
for commercially-oriented development projects, but less appropriate for government entities. Further, the legal
procedures for foreclosing on municipally-owned property are unclear.



7
on a timely basis. This system can minimize some of the credit risk for the lender. It also minimizes
credit risk for the Entity or Cantonal government, which may (legally or practically) have residual
responsibility for local government loan repayment. A lien (in the event of municipal non-payment) on
transfers from the Cantonal government is a guarantee (or, credit enhancement) only. Local authorities
are expected to budget debt repayments, and to adjust local fees and charges or other expenditure items
under local control to ensure that they make debt payments in full and on time.
The LDP will also finance research on the legal and regulatory framework for municipal lending. This
research will lead to policy recommendations to the government as to how to improve laws and
regulations in this area.
(ii) Developing a Private Sector Municipal Credit Market
The project also aims to help overcome the structural and institutional deficiencies which are currently
preventing local commercial banks from satisfying the demand for long-term infrastructure loans. By
providing access to long-term credit funds, the LDF will enable the banks to reduce the liquidity and
interest rate risk incurred on longer-term loans. Technical assistance will be provided to the participating
banks focusing on municipal credit analysis and monitoring to ensure successful repayment of LDF loans.
In addition, suitable incentive structures will be designed which ensure that the banks have an economic
interest in carrying out long-term municipal lending. Under the LDP, the banks will receive an interest
rate margin of about 5 percent. This must be regarded as modest, especially bearing in mind the small
number of loans projected to be disbursed during the pilot phase (15-205 and therefore the relatively high
administrative costs relative to the total volume of funds disbursed. For this reason, consideration will be
given to allowing the banks, at some later date, to charge a processing fee. This mechanism would allow
the LDF to adjust the effective interest margin in line with the banks' actually observed cost structures
without increasing the absolute size of the sub-borrowers' monthly debt service burden.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project has four components:
1.   Local Government Capacity Building (US$1.28 million). Technical assistance and training will
be provided to municipal governments to strengthen their financial management skills and public
participation in the capital budgeting process. In the first year, technical assistance will be targeted
towards 15-30 pilot municipalities that have demonstrated their potential creditworthiness in accordance
with criteria described in Annex 2.16 Selection of these municipalities will be carried out during project
implementation with the assistance of the international municipal consultants in accordance with the
policies and procedures described in the LDF Operational Manual. Final selection of the municipalities
will be subject to the non-objection of the LDF Board of Directors and the World Bank. The technical
assistance program will be designed with the participation of municipal representatives to ensure that it is
responsive to their needs. The TA program will likely comprise seminars, study tours and individual
consulting in the following areas: capital planning and budgeting, accounting, financial management,
project design, preparation and appraisal, procurement, environmental assessment and public consultation
and participation in the capital budgeting process. In addition, a non-core program of technical assistance
will be offered on a demand-driven basis in areas such as urban and spatial planning, and the role of local
government in private sector development. TA and training services will be planned and managed by an
5It is expected that about 80% of the 15-30 participating municipalities will have sub-loans approved.
6 Selection of the pilot municipalities will also take into account where USAID, EC-Phare and OSCE are providing
technical assistance to municipal governments and their utility companies.



8
international consulting firm selected through international bidding. The international consultants are
expected to work with a team of local consultants and utilize the capacity of local institutions in TA
provision to the extent possible. The project will coordinate extensively with USAID, EC-Phare and
OSCE with respect to the provision of technical assistance. This component provides financing for the
costs of the international and local consultants.
2.   Banking Sector Capacity Building (US$ 1.01 million). Technical assistance and training will be
provided to 3-5 local private commercial banks (PCBs) to improve their municipal credit analysis and
project appraisal skills. TA and training services will be provided by an international bank or
international bank consulting group working with local consultants. Final selection of the participating
PCBs will be based on a competitive tendering process that will take place during project implementation
in accordance with procedures described in the LDF's Operational Manual. The international bank
consultants will also provide technical assistance to LDF management in LDF financial management,
and their internal control, monitoring and auditing procedures. It is also expected, that the international
consultant will assist in facilitating an exit strategy for theLDF. This component provides financing for
the costs of the international and local consultants.
3.   Local Development Fund (US$ 11.8 million). A loan fund will be established under this
component that will be administered by Local Development Funds (LDF) in each Entity. TheLDFs will
on-lend funds to PCBs for on-lending to municipalities and/or their utilities for eligible investments.
Eligible investments will be municipal infrastructure and services sub-projects that are supported by
adequate project design and feasibility studies and that meet the project's eligibility criteria (see Annex
2.1). The most likely investments will be in water supply, sewage, district heating and transportation. An
estimated 15-20 first cycle sub-loans will be disbursed during the project implementation period.
The maximum individual loan amount will be KM 2 million (about US$1.2 million equivalent), with the
expected average loan size for first cycle loans expected to be around KM 700,000 (about US$450,000
equivalent). LDF loans will finance a maximum of 90 percent of the sub-project cost, with municipalities
expected to contribute a minimum of 10 percent. The maximum loan term will be 10 years. Local
commercial banks will not be encouraged to grant grace periods to municipalities, unless required by the
structure of the project, in which case a maximum of one year grace period on principal may be granted.
The LDF will on-lend funds to the PCBs at an annual effective interest rate of Euro-based LIBOR plus 1
percent, but not to exceed a maximum of 4 percent per annum. The PCBs will propose the maximum
final on-lending rate to the municipalities in their tenders. Final agreement on this ceiling rate will be
made as part of the PCB selection process although it is expected that it will not exceed 9 percent per
annum.7
4.   LDF Management Support (USS 0.9 million). This component will cover the local costs of LDF
management, including: (i) remuneration of local LDF staff on a declining basis; (ii) equipment and
vehicles; (iii) operating expenses; (iv) international external audits. It will also cover the costs of impact
and evaluation studies. The Entity Governments will provide office space as counterpart funding, as well
as some furniture and equipment. The project will cover operational costs on a declining basis. From
year 3 (FY2002) onwards, it is expected that LDF operational costs will be fully covered from the interest
rate spread.
7 This is significantly lower than the going rate of interest for short-term loans (16-24 percent p.a.) and is in line with
the relatively inexpensive interest rates payable on longer-term corporate loans that are currently being subsidized
by the international donor/lender community.



9
Table 1: Project Components (see Annex 3 for detailed Project Costs by Entity)
Component                     Category             Cost Incl.      % of    Bank-        %  of
Contingencies  Total    financing  Bank-
(US$M)__________________  _   (US$M)   financing
1. Local Government           Institution Building   2.6           15%        1.3        9%
Capacity Building
2.Banking Sector Capacity     Institution Building    1.0           6%        1.0        6%
Building
3.Local Development Fund      Credit               12.5            74%       11.8       79%
4. Project Management         Project               0.9             5%        0.9        6%
Management                         I         I       _I
Total                17.0            100%     15.0       100%
Note. The total project cost of US$17 million includes estimates of donor cofinancing in an amount of US$2 million.
The Govemments of the Netherlands and Italy have expressed serious interest in cofinancing the LDP. Firm commitnents are
expected to be made at the next donors conference.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project (see Section B.3for details):
The project will support the following key policy and institutional reforms:
* Institutional strengthening of municipal governments and their utilities.
* Improvements in municipal government financial management.
* Improvements in local government transparency and public accountability.
*  Improved tariff-setting policies by municipal utilities and increasing cost recovery levels.
*  Improvements in the legal and regulatory framework for municipal borrowing.
*  Introduction of private banks to municipal lending and facilitating the development of a private sector
municipal credit market in which risk is clearly identified, clarified and limited.
3. Benefits and target population:
For citizens in the municipalities where LDF loans are made, the primary benefits of the project will be
improvements in the quality of municipal infrastructure, such as better access and increased quality and
reliability of water supply and heating systems. Citizens will also benefit from a more fiscally
responsible, transparent and accountable local government and a greater stake in local government
decision-making.
For the pilot municipalities, the main benefits will be: (i) strengthening of financial management and
planning capacity; (ii) direct access to long-term financing for municipal infrastructure investments; (iii)
increased creditworthiness providing improved opportunities to access financing from the private sector;
(iv) more rational and efficient allocation of budgetary resources due to improved budgeting and capital
investment planning.
For the participating local banks, the main benefits will be: (i) acquisition of new skills in municipal
credit analysis and management; and (ii) early entry into a new lending market with potential for growth
and profits in the future.



10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be implemented over a four year period (May 1999-May 2003).
The IDA Credit will be lent to Bosnia and Herzegovina which will on-lend the proceeds of the credit to
the Federation and Republika Srpska. Project management and on-lending of the funds will be the
responsibility of a Local Development Fund (LDF) to be established as an autonomous, legal institution
in each Entity (see Annex 4 for diagram). Legal establishment of the LDF by at least one Entity
Government is a condition of project effectiveness.
Each LDF will have a Board of Directors to oversee LDF management and set policy. The Board will
comprise representatives from the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Local Self-Governance (applicable in
the RS), the Association of Cantonal finance managers in the Federation and the Association of
Municipalities in the RS8, the Bankers Association, the Banking Agency and the LDF Executive Director.
The international consultants and a World Bank representative will participate in the Board meetings as
external observers with no voting rights. The Board of Directors is expected to meet a minimum of four
times a year or as required.
The LDFs will have a small staff with a full-time Executive Director and an Administrative Assistant and
will be housed in existing Entity institutions - the Federation Investment Bank (FIB) in the Federation
and the RS Employment and Training Foundation in RS. These institutions have the in-house capacity to
provide the LDF with financial management and other support services on a contractual basis.
Management and technical advice will be provided to the LDFs by the international consultants.
In principle, the LDFs are designed to be transitional institutions that will disappear once their mission of
helping to establish a municipal credit market has been accomplished. A sunset (exit) clause will be
incorporated into the LDFs' statutes providing the possibility for closure of the LDFs and transfer of their
assets and loan monitoring responsibilities to another institution (in the Federation, the Federation
Investment Bank (FIB) which is a second tier lending institution might prove an appropriate institution to
take over the LDF portfolio, once the FIB is privatized).
The roles and responsibilities of the key players in project implementation are as follows:
Individual citizens, local community councils, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and other
stakeholder groups, through participation procedures built into the project design (see Annex 7) will help
formulate local priorities for investment to be submitted by their local governments for LDF funding.
15-30 potentially creditworthy municipalities will be selected to participate in the project. These local
governments and their respective utility companies (LGUs) - through their mayors and elected
representatives - will apply to the participating local banks for LDF financing of priority capital
investment projects. Prior to sub-loan application, LGUs will benefit from training and technical
assistance in financial management, capital planning and budgeting and project preparation to ensure that
they submit sound loan applications.
About 3-5 local PCBs will be selected to on-lend LDF funds to creditworthy LGUs. PCBs will be
selected through a competitive bidding process based on a tendering process among a short-list of
selected banks that meet basic eligibility criteria (see Annex 2.2). The international consultants will carry
out the final appraisal of the banks and will recommend 3-5 PCBs to the LDF for approval. Final
selection will be subject to the non-objection of the World Bank. Such a bidding process, as well as being
competitive and transparent, will allow a more in-depth inspection of the potential partner banks'
financial statements at a time that is closer to actual loan disbursement and after financial statements have
8 The Federation LDF will facilitate the formation of a similar association of municipal finance managers in the
Federation, which once formed would have Board representation.



I1
been prepared that include carve-outs of non-performing assets and re-adjustment of fixed assets in line
with Banking Agency regulations. The PCBs will have the following responsibilities: (i) assess the
creditworthiness of LGUs; (ii) review LGUs sub-loan applications for sub-project financing; (iii) if
eligible, carry out a technical, financial and environmental appraisal of sub-projects; (iv) approve/reject
such applications; (v) submit approved sub-loan applications to LDF for final approval; (vi) if approved,
make loans to LGUs; (vii) monitor performance of LDF financed sub-loans; and (viii) take full
responsibility for the credit and other risks of sub-loans to LGUs.
The Local Development Fund (LDF) will have the following responsibilities: (i) select the pilotLGUs
with the assistance of international municipal consultants; (ii) appraise and select the PCBs, with the
assistance of the international bank consultants; (iii) support the international consultants in the planning,
management and implementation of technical assistance to the PCBs and the LGUs; (iv) review and
approve/reject sub-loan applications by PCBs; (v) disburse sub-loans to PCBs; (vi) collect sub-loan
repayments from PCBs; (vii) monitor PCB and LGU performance; (viii) report regularly to the State and
Entity Governments and the World Bank on LDF performance and (ix) support policy work in the areas
of inter-governmental fiscal reform and improvements of the legal and regulatory framework for
municipal lending.
An international municipal consulting firm will be contracted by the LDFs to provide technical
assistance to the LGUs. The consultants will provide technical assistance and training in the following
fields: (i) government accounting and improved financial management practices; (ii) capital planning and
budgeting; (iii) review and rationalization of LGU expenditures; (iv) project prioritization and planning;
(v) project procurement; (vi) project technical, economic, financial, environmental and social appraisal;
and (vii) public consultation and citizen participation in the capital budgeting process. The consultants
may also provide other types of technical assistance based on demand e.g. in urban and spatial planning.
The consultants will also do work on the legal and regulatory framework for municipal lending, as well as
maintain contacts with those involved in inter-governmental fiscal reform efforts.
An international financial institution or consulting firm will be contracted through international
bidding to be responsible for assisting the LDF in financial management and providing TA and training to
the PCBs. The international bank will: (i) assist in the selection of eligible PCBs; (ii) provide technical
advice to the LDF staff on establishing internal policies and procedures in the areas of financial
management and portfolio management; (iii) review and approve/reject loan requests by PCBs; (iv) co-
authorize LDF sub-loans to PCBs; (v) monitor LDF performan6e;-and (vi) advise on strategies for the exit
of the LDF from the municipal credit market and facilitating PCBs' access to long-term commercial
sources of financing for municipal lending.
The international bank will also be responsible for providing high caliber technical assistance and training
to PCBs in the following areas: (i) establishment of lending policies, procedures and standard loan
documentation for LDF loans; (ii) creditworthiness assessment of LGUs; (iii) credit analysis of sub-loan
applications; (iv) management of a long-term credit portfolio of loans to LGUs; (iv) monitoring LGU
borrowers performance with respect to outstanding loans; (vi) methods of transparent reporting of LGU
loan portfolio performance; and (vii) technical, financial and environmental appraisal of proposed sub-
projects.
Financial Management and Auditing Arrangements
The LDFs will be responsible for the financial management of the IDA credit and the LDF loan portfolio
in accordance with International Accounting Standards as issued by the International Accounting
Standards Committee. Prior to effectiveness, an assessment of the financial management systems of the
LDFs will be carried out. This assessment will result in a time-bound action plan agreed between the
Bank and the LDFs which will describe the steps to be taken to ensure that the LDFs have an acceptable
financial management system in place by effectiveness and prepare Project Management Reports (PMR)



12
by December 31, 1999. The establishment of a financial management system satisfactory to the Bank, as
assessed by a certified Financial Management Specialist, will be a condition of effectiveness.
Technical advice and training in the areas of financial management and procurement to all project players
- the LDF, the PCBs and the LGUs - will be an integral part of the assistance to be provided by the
international consultants. These consultants will also play a role in the oversight and monitoring of
financial management and procurement practices and ensure that they meet Bank standards.
The LDF will provide quarterly financial statements to the LDF Board of Directors and the World Bank.
PCBs will be required to provide monthly financial statements to the LDF on their LDF loan portfolio
status.
International audits will be conducted on an annual basis by international auditors acceptable to the Bank
in accordance with International Accounting Standards as issued by the International Federation of
Accountants. The State Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is currently in the process of
hiring international auditors to audit all ongoing World Bank-financed projects. The contract will be a
two year contract with the option to renew for up to two additional years, based on performance. These
auditors are expected to be employed by April, 1999. The LDP accounts will be audited by this auditing
firm in FY2000 provided their performance this FY proves satisfactory to the Bank. Employment of
these auditors is a condition of effectiveness. The external audit will include audits of all LDF accounts.
Furthermore, all PCBs will be required to submit to the LDFs their annual external audits. In addition,
borrowing municipalities will be required to carry out a financial management review and an audit related
to LDF sub-project expenditures. External audits at all levels will help support the signal that allocation
criteria - especially creditworthiness - must be strictly adhered to and will be audited thoroughly for all
LDP project participants.
Procurement Arrangements (see Annex 6)
Procurement of the consultant services contracts will be carried out by the LDFs. The World Bank
procurement specialist will provide guidance on World Bank procedures for international bidding
procedures for consultants and supervise this procurement process. Procurement of civil works/goods
will be carried out by the municipal government borrowers. As part of the technical assistance and
training to municipalities under the Local Government Capacity Building component, training in
procurement methods will be provided. In addition, the LDF, with the support of international
consultants, will be responsible for overseeing procurement and ensuring that it complies with the World
Bank guidelines.
Disbursement Mechanisms (see Annex 6)
The proposed IDA credit is expected to be disbursed over a four year period. The disbursement profile is
conservative taking into account the project's primary focus during FY2000 on institution-building with
sub-loan disbursements commencing in FY2001.
For the first year of project implementation, disbursements will be made using the Bank's traditional
transaction-based disbursement method based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The LDFs'
financial management capacity will be reviewed after one year and if it is considered that they have
gained sufficient experience with the FMS and reporting using PMRs, they may switch to PMR-based
disbursement.
Disbursements from the IDA credit will be for consultant services, LDF operating costs and sub-loans.
Disbursements for consultant services will be against consultant services contracts based on standard
consultant contracts acceptable to the World Bank. Disbursements for sub-loans will be made against
Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the LDF and the PCBs, key terms and conditions of which are



13
described in the Project Agreement. Details on disbursement methods and documentation requirements
are provided in Annex 6.
D: Project Rationale
1 Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Direct on-lending by a Government Agency. An alternative project design would have been to channel
project funds through a government agency for direct lending to local governments. This is a model used
by many World Bank-financed municipal development projects around the world, including in the eastern
and central Europe region. However, this approach was rejected in the Bosnian context for several
reasons. First, the creation of such a specialized government institution would have been counter to
objective of stimulating competitive, private sector commercially-based municipal lending. In Bosnia,
the government and the Bank are encouraging all lending to be done through the private sector. The
project approach is in line with this policy. Second, such a model presents high risks of politicized
lending decisions. This risks credit decisions being made not on the municipalities' ability to repay and,
hence, poor repayment performance. Such a risk was considered very high in BiH which is a highly
politicized environment. Third, such a model tends to "crowd out" private sector lending rather than
stimulate the creation of private municipal credit markets. Finally,, municipalities expressed their
preference to borrow from commercial banks rather than a government institution. Local banks have also
expressed keen interest in municipal lending.
Inclusion of a Social Fund or Grant Component During project preparation, consideration was given
to including a grant fund to provide grant financing for low-income municipalities, where revenue-
generation capacity is insufficient to enable borrowing. The possibility of targeting such assistance to
refugee return areas was also considered. This option was discussed extensively by the Bank and the
Government counterpart teams and eventually rejected on the following grounds. First, considerable
amounts (estimated as at least US$50 million during the period 1999-2000) of grant financing are already
being channeled by the EC and bilateral donors to municipal infrastructure and community projects on a
grant basis, primarily through NGOs for refugee return-related projects. Under this project, only US$2-3
million could have been allocated to this fund which would have been insignificant in this context.
Second, it was agreed that it would be best to keep the design of this project simple and focused on the
primary objective of developing a municipal credit market, rather than mixing grant and loan programs
with differing objectives under one project. Third, it was agreed that the Bank has a comparative
advantage in focusing on the development of long-term sustainable systems, such as municipal credit, and
that providing credit to those who can afford to borrow will in itself lead to a better allocation of transfers
and grants to non-creditworthy municipalities.
Delay the Project. During project preparation, some argued that the project should be delayed given the
state of flux of intergovernmental fiscal relations, relative lack of creditworthiness of municipalities and
the weakness and under-capitalization of the local banking sector. However, the Government and the
project team believes that it is important to start working with local governments, and banks, now to start
building their creditworthiness and to put in place a financing mechanism that will ease the transition
from emergency reconstruction to long-term development, when donor resources will be scarce and
accessing capital markets will be necessary to meet investment needs. This institution building process
will go on in parallel with the inter-governmental fiscal reforms. A further reason for not delaying the
project is to preempt the creation of inefficient mechanisms of resource allocation that would be likely to
arise to fill the present void in local government financing in BiH.



14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                   Project                        Latest Supervision (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Municipal demand for investment   Public Works and Employment  S               S
Project (FY96)
Cost recovery in the water sector    Emergency Water Supply and  S             S
Sanitation (FY96)
Capacity of banking sector - Fed    Emergency Recovery Project  HS             HS
(credit line component) (FY96)
Capacity of banking sector - RS    Emergency Pilot Credit Project  S           S
(FY97)
Public finance reforn; inter-  Public Finance Structural      S                S
governmental fiscal issues     Adjustment Credit (FY98)
Financial sector and private sector  Proposed Enterprise and Bank
reform                         Privatization Adj. Credit (FY99)
Other development agencies
Strengthening of cantonal capital   ICMA technical assistance
budget planning and financial  program financed by USAID
management capacity.           (1996-98).
Institutional strengthening of water  USAID Municipal Infrastructure
utilities.                     Services (MIS) Project
Policy and institutional reform in   EC-Phare Water Sector Institution
water sector.                  Building Program
Local government capacity-     OSCE, Canadian Urban Institute
building/urban planning.       (Tuzla); various NGOs
Integrated local development;  UNDP PROGRESS Project
stakeholder participation.    I_I
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The institutional capacity of local government needs considerable strengthening - experience inBiH,
including direct experience with municipalities under the Public Works and Employment Project (PWEP)
and several other emergency reconstruction projects, shows that the institutional capacity and financial
skills of municipalities varies widely, but is generally weak. Hence, this project's emphasis on
strengthening the institutional and financial capacity of local governments. In addition, some local
governments still suffer from ethnic division and conflict between resident and returning populations
highlighting the need to focus on good governance and public participation as an integral part of capacity
building efforts.
Municipal development projects need to build in incentives for local governments to pursue
institutional development, which is a lower priority for them than physical investments - experience
from municipal development projects elsewhere attest to this. Hence, the linkage made between loan
eligibility and the adoption of basic institutional and financial management improvement measures.
Measures need to be taken to minimize the weakness of the banking sector - experience from ongoing
credit lines financed by the Bank and other donors offer the following lessons: (i) select only a few banks
to on-lend project funds with intensive training and supervision during project start-up; (ii) make the
banks take the full credit risk - this enhances repayment performance; (iii) introduce standard loan
documentation, loan analysis and reporting formats; and (iv) introduce penalties for past-due payments by
the participating banks to the LDF.



15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Municipal and cantonal officials have expressed keen interest in the project. This interest is demonstrated
by the high rate of responsiveness to an initial survey of creditworthiness and the large number of project
proposals put forward for financing (see Section E). Entity and State level officials have also expressed
strong support for the project which is regarded as timely and supportive of a more decentralized local
government system as well as being a project that will assist BiH move towards a more market-based,
sustainable economy and financial sector. Both Entities showed their commitment by appointing
counterpart teams which worked closely with the Bank team during project preparation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
This project is in line with the Bank's overall approach of shifting BiH from post-war reconstruction to
normalization of the economy, and long-term sustainable development and growth. The Bank's
involvement brings with it over 20 years experience in municipal development throughout the world. The
project can also provide leverage to others' institutional reform efforts by providing the "carrot" (access
to financing) at the end of technical assistance efforts being supported by other agencies.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic:
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$ million; ERR=  % []Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[x]  Other: individual sub-projects to be financed by the LDF will be identified during project
implementation. Economic analysis will be carried out as part of sub-project feasibility studies.
LDF financing will be used to support municipal infrastructure and services projects, mainly in the areas
of water, sewage, transport, heating and electricity distribution. As part of the creditworthiness study,
sample jurisdictions were requested to submit data on projects that met the parameters of the Local
Development Project and which would be ready to implement in 1999 if financing was available. A total
of 95 project briefs were submitted for a total value of DM 60 million with an average cost of DM
693,000. The highest demand for project financing is in the areas of water supply (43%), sewage (15 %)
and transportation (12%).
No detailed economic or financial analyses of individual projects were carried out during preparation
given that the pilot municipalities have not been selected and it is too early to develop a project pipeline
(sub-loan applications are not expected to be submitted until early 2000). However, it is clear that there is
a large supply of viable projects. All sub-projects submitted to the PCBs forLDF financing will have to
be supported by appropriate feasibility studies, of a depth in line with the sub-project's size and
complexity. These studies will have to demonstrate that each sub-project has employed a least cost
solution and is economically viable with respect to cost recovery (see Annex 2.1 for eligibility criteria).
2. Financial:
During preparation, a creditworthiness assessment was carried out to assess the financial condition of a
sample of cantons and municipalities. Based on this study, criteria were developed that will be used to
select local governments as eligible for project participation. These include that revenues are increasing,
and that the local government is free from any arrears, e.g. for salaries (see Annex 2.1). All sub-
borrowers will be required to carry out a financial assessment of the sub-projects submitted for financing.
Priority will be given to sub-projects that demonstrate a positive financial rate of return of at least 10
percent, although in some instances an economic rate of return might be considered sufficient justification
for sub-loan approval, particularly for sub-projects with limited cost recovery but with high social,
environmental or economic benefits. Such sub-loans would require a general obligation pledge by the
sub-borrower.



16
Fiscal impact:
The project design minimizes the fiscal costs and budget liabilities at the State and Entity level by on-
lending the credit funds via the LDF to PCBs which will take the full credit risk and repay the LDF to
repay IDA on behalf of the State. Donor grant funds will be sought for the technical assistance
components. Overall, the fiscal benefits to the Entity are expected to outweigh any potential costs, as the
project will encourage increased revenue generation at the local government level, so reducing demands
on Entity governments for grants or subsidies.
The project is expected to have a positive fiscal impact at the local government level. Financial benefits
include improvements in the creditworthiness of participating municipalities and the financial position of
utilities. There is a risk of excessive borrowing by local governments leading to fiscal deficits. This risk
will be minimized by applying a debt service limit that annual debt service must not exceed 15 percent of
annual revenue.
3. Technical:
Feasibility studies will be carried out for all sub-projects. The majority of sub-projects will be technically
simple and well within the capacity of local engineering firms to design and implement. Technical
assistance will be available in the case that municipalities or their utilities need additional support in
project preparation and appraisal.
4. Institutional:
The institutional capacity of local government varies but is generally weak. The main institutional
weaknesses lie in the areas of financial management and public participation, transparency and
accountability. Local PCBs' capacity is also weak particularly in the areas of municipal credit analysis
and portfolio management. Hence, the project's primary focus on providing technical assistance and
training both to municipal governments and to banks to strengthen their institutional capacity as
borrowers and lenders respectively.
5. Social:
The social assessment undertaken for the project confirmed the high demand for improved municipal
infrastructure. There is widespread dissatisfaction with the quality and consistency of existing services
which have suffered from war damage, lack of maintenance and under-investment. Many place
infrastructure investment, particularly in water, sewerage systems and roads, as a top local development
priority. Overall, 42 percent of the sample expressed willingness to pay more for improved services while
32 percent said they could not afford to pay more.
In some municipalities, a key social issue will be to build trust and reconciliation between resident
populations and returnees, particularly those from a minority ethnic group. Hence, the project's focus on
public participation and government accountability in its capacity-building efforts. Conflict resolution
techniques may also be considered as part of the technical assistance program.
According to the social assessment, the vast majority of municipal citizens want increased participation in
local government decision-making. In response to the question of how decisions regarding municipal
investments should be made, only 20 percent of respondents were willing to leave this entirely to
municipal leaders. Another 19 percent recommended that local community councils be involved. An
overwhelming 57 percent felt that citizens and citizen's associations should be involved in decision-
making about municipal investments. Focus group discussions supported these findings. Focus groups
were insistent that citizens and external technical experts be consulted on investment decision-making
since group members believe that, on their own, most municipal leaders lack the skills to make technical
decisions and are likely to be swayed by political or personal considerations. A Public Information and
Consultation Strategy has been devised for the project based on the findings of the social assessment (see
Annex 7).



17
6. Environmental assessment:
Environmental Category [ ] A  [x] B  [ ] C
The environmental impact of the sub-projects will vary depending on their nature. Guidelines for
environmental assessment of sub-projects will be incorporated into the LDF Operational Manual which
will be subject to World Bank review and non-objection prior to project effectiveness. Sub-project
feasibility studies done by the borrowing municipalities will be required to include an environmental
assessment and propose appropriate mitigation actions to avoid any negative environmental impact, if
necessary. PCBs will be trained in environmental assessment as part of the TA program. Such
assessment work may be sub-contracted to a local environmental firm if such capacity exists by the time
of sub-loan disbursement. The LDF will check that the sub-project meets environmental assessment
requirements as part of their review of the sub-project applications to ensure that the investment fulfills
local environmental standards and policies and the LDF Operational Manual guidelines. Sub-projects
with serious negative environmental impacts would not be eligible for financing.
7. Participatory approach [key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced; if
participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable]:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: The social assessment consisting of focus group
discussions, in-depth qualitative case studies, and a survey of 2,400 households has ensured consultation
with domiciled residents, displaced persons and returnees from all three ethnic nationalities. The results
of the survey confirmed the widespread dissatisfaction with municipal infrastructure and services and the
willingness to pay for improved services. It has also led to the development of a Public Information and
Consultation Strategy to ensure citizen participation in the decision-making process. A local government
study was also carried out to hear the local government's perspective and ensure that their views were
integrated in the project design.
b.  Other key stakeholders:  Preparation also involved consultation and collaboration with other
international organizations, particularly USAID, EC and OSCE and with NGOs, particularly those
involved in local development. Input from other organizations helped develop the project concept and
design and resulted in a project that is designed as part of an overall municipal development program with
different donors supporting various elements.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project design aims to achieve financial and institutional sustainability in the following ways: (i)
placing a central focus on institution building of local government so providing them with the tools to
finance and manage investments on a sustainable basis; (ii) institutionalizing participatory processes that
build public support for the investments and increase citizens' willingness to pay for the services
provided; (iii) providing PCBs for the first time with hands-on experience in assessing municipal credit
risks and managing a municipal loan portfolio; (iv) exposing local governments - also for the first time -
to credit financing with the incentive to adopt sound management practices to build creditworthiness; and
(v) laying the foundation for a private sector municipal lending market at the level of both the banks and
the borrowers.



18
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                                       Risk      Risk Minimization Measure
g_                  __
Annex 1, cell 'from Outputs to Objective"
Municipalities do not have sufficient revenues to  S  Carefiul selection of participating municipalities
support long-term borrowing.                         which takes into account the level, stability and
trends in revenues. Close collaboration with inter-
governmental fiscal reform work to encourage
policies to increase municipal revenues.
Annex 1, cell 'from Components to Outputs"
Municipalities are not willing to adopt better  M    Municipalities will provide input into technical
financial management practices.                      assistance program design. Sub-loan eligibility is
conditioned on achievement of acceptable
financial management standards.
Insufficient supply of well-defined projects with  M  Technical advice will be provided for project
adequate feasibility studies.                       feasibility  studies   during  the   municipal
institutional capacity building phase, as required.
PCBs lack the financial capacity and skills to  S    Strict capital adequacy ratios are a key selection
manage municipal credit risk adequately.             criteria for PCBs.  The Project will provide
training for PCBs in municipal risk analysis and
lending.
Overall Risk Rating                            S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(a) A Project Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Association and an Entity on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b) For the Entity referred to in paragraph (a) above:
(i) The respective LDF has been established in form and substance satisfactory to the Association and
its Operational Guidelines have been adopted satisfactory to the Association;
(ii) A Subsidiary Financing and Project Implementation Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower, said Entity and the respective LDF on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association;
(iii)  A financial management system satisfactory to the Association is operational.
(c) The external auditors have been employed.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
None.



19
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [x] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [x] Not applicable, although draft Terms of Reference for consultant services
contracts have been prepared.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[x] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Completion of the Operational Manual is a condition of effectiveness.
The establishment of an operational financial management system, satisfactory to the Bank, is a condition
of effectiveness.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]   The Project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]   [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Sarah Forster (ECCBA)
Acting Sector Manager/Direc   t     Thalwitz (ECSIN)
Country Manager/Director: Christia



20
Annex 1
Bosnia and Herzegovina: Local Development Pilot Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary         Key Performance Indicators       Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
CAS Goal:                 1. Implementation progress on    Adjustment credit       (Goal to Bank Mission)
Support the shift from    public finance reforms under     supervision reports.    1. Continued political
emergency reconstruction to   PFSAC.                       Bank ESW.                stability.
sustainable economic growth  2. Implementation of privatization  Donor reports e.g.  2. Gov't commitment to
and development.          and financial sector reforms.    USAID.                   implement economic reforms.
3. GDP growth.
Project Development                                                                (Objective to Goal)
Objective:                                                 LDF and international    1. Timely and increasing rate
1. Strengthen the capacity of  1. Participating municipalities  consultant reports.  of collection of affordable
local governments to provide  demonstrate improved financial  Bank supervision reports.  tariffs.
improved infrastructure and   management capabilities.     Quarterly PCB and LDF    2. Increasing capitalization of
services (including       2. Pilot PCBs demonstrate improved  reports.             banking sector.
improving the legal and   municipal credit lending ability.  Impact assessments.
regulatory framework for  3. Measurable improvements in the
municipal borrowing).     quantity and quality of municipal
2. Initiate the development   infrastructure.
of a municipal credit market.  4. High quality portfolio - no more
than 10 percent of LDF portfolio at
risk (60 days past due).
Project Outputs                                                                     (Outputs to Objective)
1. 15-30 LGUs trained in  1. No. of LGUs that meet the LDF    Quarterly project progress  LGUs have predictable and
improved financial        financial management standards.  reports by municipal    well-defined revenue flows.
management and public     2. No. of LGUs that meet the LDF    consultants.          LGUs implement cost
participation in the capital    public participation standards.  WB supervision reports.   recovery based on sound tariff
budgeting process.                                         Reports from related     policies.
projects - USAID, EC.   Clear legal and regulatory
framework for municipal
l_____________________  ______borrowing.
2. 3-5 PCBs trained in    1. No. of PCBs trained in municipal  Quarterly project progress  PCBs increase capital and
municipal lending and     credit analysis and portfolio    reports by PCB           liquidity.
municipal loan portfolio  management.                      consultants.             PCBs committed to municipal
management..              2. No. of PCBs implementing sound   WB supervision reports.   lending.
municipal lending policies and
procedures.
3. 10-20 LDF loans        1. No. and value of loans disbursed.   PCB quarterly portfolio    LGUs able to service long-
disbursed to LGUs for     2. Loan to values increase and/or  reports to LDF.        term debt.
investment in municipal   negative covenants decrease.     Quarterly project progress
infrastructure and services.                               reports by PCB
consultants.
WB supervision reports.
Project Components:       Project Inputs:                  Regular project progress   (Components to Outputs)
1. Local Government       Technical Assistance and Training    reports.             LGUs willingness to adopt
Capacity Building. Support  to local governments:          Reports by municipal     better financial management
to 15-30 potentially         US$ 1.3 million               consultants.             practices.
creditworthy municipalities.
2. Local Bank Capacity     Technical Assistance and training to  Progress reports.  PCBs willingness to engage in
Building: capacity building   PCBs.                        Reports by PCB           municipal lending.
support to 3-5 selected      US $1.0 million               consultants.
PCBs.
3. Local Development      Credit fund:                     Portfolio and financial  Pipeline of well-defined
Fund: on-lending through     US $11.8 million              management reports.      projects.
PCBs to .LGUs
4. Project management:    Staff salaries, equipment, operating   Quarterly project progress  Qualified staff appointed by
including monitoring and  costs:                           reports.                 Entity governments to manage
evaluation                   US $0.9 million                                        project.



21
Annex 2
Local Development Pilot Project
Project Description
The project is designed as a pilot operation that aims to build the institutional and financial capacity of
15-30 local governments and demonstrate their creditworthiness. The project also aims to demonstrate
the ability of local banks to make long-term loans to local governments and secure repayment so laying
the foundations for the development of a private sector municipal credit market.
Component 1: Local Government Capacity Building. Technical assistance and training will be
provided to 15-30 municipal governments (two thirds in the Federation and one third in RS). These pilot
municipalities will be selected according to the eligibility criteria described in Annex 2.1 and the
procedures described in the Operational Manual. The World Bank will provide a non-objection to the
final selection of pilot municipalities.
The first phase of the project will focus on providing technical assistance to build the institutional and
financial capacity of the selected pilot local governments and preparing for commercial borrowing.
Technical assistance will comprise seminars, study tours, and individual consultants in the following
areas: accounting, financial management, capital planning and budgeting, project design, preparation and
appraisal, procurement, environmental assessment and public consultation and participation in the capital
budgeting process. In addition, a non-core program of technical assistance would be offered on a demand-
driven basis in areas such as urban and spatial planning, modernization and streamlining of administration
and procedures, management information systems and the role of local government in private sector
development. The technical assistance program will be designed in a participatory manner with the input
of municipal representatives from the pilot municipalities so that it is responsive to their needs.
The list below describes the types of topics to be covered by the technical assistance as identified during
the local government creditworthiness study:
A.       The Role of the Public and Private Sector in Economic Planning and Development
*  Development of a long term economic development strategy.
* Understanding that the primary role of local government is to provide adequate infrastructure and
public services.
*  Establishing links with the private sector for most capital investment for economic development.
B.       Capital Planning and Budgeting
*  Understanding the need to segregate capital (investment) decisions from operating decisions
because the benefits accrue over a different time frame.
*  Development of a multi-year capital plan founded on the economic strategies determined above
with a clear view of local government priorities.
*  Assisting municipalities to construct efficient operating and capital budgets, analyze expenditures
in terms of core and non-core local municipal activities, and determine a local municipal debt
service capacity. Assistance in multi-year financial planning, beyond the annual budget cycle, will
also be provided.
*  Techniques for estimating the direct financial benefits (enhancing local own-source revenues
and/or costs savings) from proposed projects.
*  Basics of cost benefit analysis to determine the optimal project implementation strategy.



22
C.      Basics of Debt Management
*  Why the use of debt may be desirable for capital purposes; spreading the costs over the life of the
benefits.
*  Determining debt capacity.
*  Different debt structures and their appropriate use.
*  Accounting for debt (loan proceeds are not revenue).
D.       Accounting
*  Developing the use of fund accounting so various enterprises can be brought into a consolidated
and transparent local government budget.
*  Accounting for balance sheet items; showing changes in fund balances; displaying transactions in
"below the line" financing items.
E.        Utility Management
* Concepts of full cost recovery, including provision for capital investment.
* Eliminating (or making transparent) social assistance objectives, which should be handled outside of
the utility budget.
* Consideration of different legal structures, e.g. corporatization and eventual privatization.
Component 2: Banking Sector Capacity Building. Technical assistance and training will be provided to
3-5 local PCBs to improve their municipal credit analysis and project appraisal skills. Participating PCBs
must meet the eligibility criteria described in Annex 2.2. Final appraisal and selection of the PCBs will
take place in accordance with the procedures described in the Operational Manual and with the non-
objection of the World Bank.
TA and training services will be provided by an international bank or international bank consulting group
with a good reputation and proven experience in municipal lending. The international bank consultants
will also provide technical assistance in LDF management, disbursement of LDF credit funds, and the
internal control, monitoring and auditing procedures of the LDF.
Component 3: Local Development Fund (LDF). This component will comprise a loan fund from
which loans will be made to selected local PCBs to on-lend to pilot LGUs for eligible investment
projects. The fund will be managed by Local Development Funds to be established by the Government in
each Entity as autonomous legal institutions.
Sub-loan Terms and Conditions. Sub-loans will be made up to a maximum individual amount of KM 2
million (about US$1.2 million equivalent) with a maximum loan term of 10 years. The LDF will on-lend
the funds to the PCBs at an effective interest rate of Euro Libor plus I percent per annum, but not to
exceed 4 percent per annum. The final on-lending rate from the PCBs to the LGUs will be determined by
the PCBs as they will bid on the final price as part of their tender. However, an interest rate ceiling of 9
percent per annum to the final borrower will likely be applied given the lack of market-based interest rate
setting in BiH. Grace periods will be avoided unless required by the structure of the project (for example,
a utility project that will not produce revenue until completed). Projects funded from the existing tax base
or revenue streams should normally begin amortizing immediately so the local government does not
commit the revenue stream to other uses. In the case a grace period is given by the local bank to the
municipality, it would be for a maximum of one year on principal only. There will be no grace period
provided between the LDF and the local commercial bank.



23
The table below summarizes the on-lending terms and conditions between the different levels:
I Level of Lending
Conditions:           IDA to BiH(LDF)         LDF to PCBs        PCBs to LGUs
Term                 35 years                 5-10 years         Same as LDF/PCB
Grace Period          10 years                TBD                Same as LDFIPCB
Commitment Fee p.a.   0.50% (typically waived)   Not applicable  Not applicable
Interest rate p.a.   0.75%                    Euro Libor + I %,   Up to 9.0 % p.a.
but not to exceed
4%p.a.
Size of loans:
- maximum            Not applicable           KM 2.0 million     KM 2.0 million
- expected average   Not applicable           KM 0.7 million     KM 0.7 million
- minimum            Not applicable           KM 100,000         KM 100,000
Eligible Investments. Eligible investments will include municipal infrastructure and services sub-projects
that are supported by adequate design and feasibility studies and meet the LDF eligibility criteria (see
Annex 2.1). The most typical investments are likely to be water supply, sewage, electricity distribution,
transportation, gas heating systems, flood protection, solid waste, and markets. Cost recovery and debt
servicing of the loans will be derived either from direct user charges (for utilities) or indirectly from
general local government revenues. Local governments borrowers will be expected to contribute at least
10 percent to the sub-project cost.
Component 4: LDF Management Support. This component will cover the local costs of LDF
management, including: (i) remuneration of local LDF staff on a declining basis; (ii) equipment and
vehicles; (iii) operating expenses; (iv) international external audits. It will also cover the costs of impact
and evaluation studies. The Entity Governments will provide office space as counterpart funding, as well
as some furniture and equipment. The project will cover LDF operational costs on a declining basis.
From year 3 (FY2002) onwards, LDF operational costs will be fully covered from the interest rate spread.



24
Annex 2.1
Eligibility Criteria for
Participating Municipalities/Utilities and Eligible Sub-Projects
Participating municipalities will be selected on the basis of their ability to demonstrate that they are
potentially creditworthy. Selected nmnicipalities will have to demonstrate that they meet a large
number of these criteria or are committed to meeting them9. More detailed eligibility criteria and the
selection process are described in the Operational Manual:
A.    Financial Condition
i) Revenues are at least stable and preferably increasing. There should be at least two years of
revenue growth (adjusting for any tax policy changes).
ii) The local government should have a stable source of revenue. That means nmnicipalities
operating in cantons where no law has been passed to allocate revenues to municipalities will
not be eligible unless such a law is passed or acantonal guarantee is provided for the nunicipal
loan.
iii) The local government should be free of any "arrears" (e.g. for municipal employee salaries) or
have clear plans as to how to cover arrears.
iv) The municipality has control over the operation of the utility and the revenues it generates.
v) The utility generates a surplus of operating revenue over operating expenditures in the case that
the LDF sub-loan is to a utility.
B.    Economic Environment
i) Levels of employment in the municipality are growing.
ii) The wage levels are higher than the national average.
iii) There exists a diverse economic base, with emnployment spread among a number of different
companies and industries, rather than concentrated in one or two.
C.    Management Capacity
i) The key local government employees (esp. financial managers) have significant experience in
financial management, preferably governmental financial management.
ii) There is limited turnover in the local government staff, and there is not a pattern of abrupt
policy changes among the political leadership.
iii) The budget, accounting and management practices of the local government and, as applicable,
the utility provide an accurate, transparent, comprehensive and consistent picture of the
government or utility's financial condition. Or, if not, the local government or the utility is
committed to implementing appropriate reformns to meet appropriate budget, accounting and
financial management standards.
iv) There are distinct operating and capital (investment) budgets. Preferably, the capital budget
includes a multi-year plan for the repair, improvement and additions to the local government
infrastructure and a rational way to decide among investment priorities. Or, if not, the local
government is committed to implementing appropriate capital budgeting reforms.
9 In addition, the State and Entity Governments have expressed their intention that municipalities whose council
assembly members have criminal records or have been indicted for any felony will not be eligible to participate in
the Project. Furthermore, municipalities whose election results have not been certified by OSCE will not be eligible.



25
v) As applicable, the utility has adopted or has clear plans to adopt a business plan defining
service targets and productivity and financial objectives of the utility, such plan to have been
agreed with the municipality, and, if required, other governmental bodies.
D.     Sub-Project Eligibility Criteria
i)  The sub-project is for an investment in municipal infrastructure or services under the control of
the municipality and/or municipal utility.
ii)  The sub-project application is supported by a feasibility study, designs, a cost estimate and
procurement plans and documents.
iii) The sub-project has been evaluated as the least cost alternative to achieve project objectives.
iv)  The sub-project is supported by financial projections demonstrating that the project will
increase revenues or reduce costs and have a positive financial return on investment. In the
case that the sub-project does not have a positive financial rate of return, clear economic or
social justification for the investment is provided.
v)  The sub-project has a clear and conplete financing plan, including evidence that any co-
financing proposed has been or will be secured on time.
vi) All necessary permits have been received including evidence of clear title to land, as
applicable.
vii) An environmental assessment has been carried out, if necessary.
viii) Where relevant, a social assessment has been carried out.



26
Annex 2.2
Eligibility Criteria for Participating Banks
A.     The PCB is duly established and licensed to operate by the Banking Agency.
B.     Managerial capacity
The PCB has a managerial capacity acceptable to the Bank, including:
i) well-qualified and professional management stafd0.
ii) a clearly identified business strategy including analysis of primary risks.
iii) effective internal controls and independent auditing.
iv) professional standards.
C.     Compliance with banking agency regulations
The PCB is in compliance with all Banking Agency regulations and prudential standards.
Included in these regulations are the following:
i)  an 8 percent risk-weighted capital adequacy ratio
ii) asset concentration1'
-no single credit risk > 40 percent of Core Assets
iii) loan provisioning
-25 percent provision for assets classified as "special mention".
-50 percent provision for assets classified as "substandard".
-75 peTcent provision for assets classified as "doubtfil".
-100 percent provision for assets classified as "loss".
-assets to be classified quarterly, taking into account debt service history.
D.     Credit analysis and credit policies
The PCB has a sound and balanced credit risk management program including:
i) credit risk identification and management policies.
ii) credit extension, documentation and collection processes.
iii)  credit portfolio monitoring and control procedures.
iv) collateral arrangements.
E.     Potential to strengthen/develop municipal lending
i) capacity to appraise infrastructure projects (project finance).
ii) capacity to admninister long-term loans.
iii) previous experience with municipal lending and collateral arrangements or clear
commitment to municipal lending through integration into the bank's business plan.
' The State and Entity Governments have also expressed their intention that PCB whose owner/shareholders have
criminal records or have been indicted for any felony will not be eligible to participate in the Project.
'" On Asset Concentration: The maximum total credit to one borrower or group of related borrowers is 40 percent
of a banks core capital - not net worth. Any amount over 25 percent must be fully secured by readily marketable
collateral. Since this collateral doesn't really exist in BiH, 25 percent is the effective limit. The maximum unsecured
credit to one borrower or group of related borrowers is 5 percent of bank's core capital.



27
Annex 3
Local Development Pilot Project
Estimated Summary Project Costs
Project Component                                        Local           Foreign       Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
1. Local Govermment Capacity Building                        0.2             1.1          1.3
2. Banking Sector Capacity Building                          0.2             0.8           1.0
3. Local Development Fund                                    11.8            0.0          11.8
4. Project Management                                        0.8             0.1          0.9
Total                                                        13.0            2.0          15.0
Total Project Cost                                           13.0            2.0          15.0
Note: Project costs include IDA financing only.



28
Local Development Pilot Project
Estimated Detailed Project Costs
S  66Rk'4oo~             88'S8S           
*   8  888 2   80000~~~~~~~~ 
6666                  6666.  I18 -1  06       o0I6666
F 4 9000                  0         O         00000
~~0000O000C        0          08.. 00.. 0 .             00.8
0         -   -   -     0   0      0 0 0 0 
*      84     3                       g2566
00000000.00.                . ..    ..  000000        00.       000000000000
8   8828888828    88  888888    8.8   828888288~~~~~~E                 8
888288;  66666    6          8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E E E
*   88888808   8888888~&                                                       08
0  g ~ ?~8 0                 66o888co                                               c
66                         8&g
E co c oc                       oOOOO                             8080  
3                 88                                          oo88o~~~~~~~~~~~~d
-              00                                          66666          66EE
A8888~0cC*                                                O0
~c 6 00000                                                   osSgA



Fed.                                             RS 
LDF                                            L FConsultants                                  |
Hire T/A I 
International                                      
_   Bank Org.                      /__Internationa_ 
On lending            On lending                                   rg.
/.. IKM               KM                     .4.,
T/A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ T/A
T/A            J    | Comuni.  M| mi.                Mimi.                                                          } r c  r Cl    r     Mui  T/A.



30
Annex 5
Local Development Pilot Project
Appraisal of Financial Intermediaries12
During project preparation, an appraisal was carried out of the local banking sector's capacity to
intermediate local government lending and an initial selection of potential participating banks was made.
This selection process included the following steps:
Short-listing of Potential Participating Banks
Available data and bank reviews were analyzed in order to develop a short-list of potential partner banks.
The short-listed banks were selected based on the following: (1) analysis of previous ratings and rankings
carried out by KfW, the Barents Group and DAI (under a USAID banking contract); and (2) a reputation
for soundness. A total of 9 banks in the Federation and 3 banks inRepublika Srpska were short-listed as
potential financial intermediaries for the project.
Interviews with Short-listed Banks
Each of the short-listed banks was interviewed and presented with a banking questionnaire to assess
capability and to gauge program interest, monitoring capability, and relative financial strength. For the
purpose of assessing the banks' financial position, banks were asked to submit the following documents:
(1) year-end financial data for 1997 and half year 1998 (compiled using the IMF reporting format); (2) a
copy of the report to the Banking Agency on compliance with the national capital adequacy guidelines (as
of December 31, 1997); and (3) a copy of the report to the Banking Agency on the risk grading of assets
(as of December 31, 1997).'3
Analysis of Financial Data
The submission of these financial statements in conjunction with assistance from the Banking Agency
enabled a limited financial analysis of the banks to be undertaken. The difficulties associated with the
bank financial assessment included: (i) inadequate reporting requirements. As a result, the data presented
is often misleading or contradictory; (ii) banks have only recently been required to submit their accounts
for inspection by external auditors. Not all banks have financial statements that have been audited by
major international accountancy firms,'4 and (iii) it is difficult to predict the fuiture development of the
12 See "Appraisal of BiH Banking Sector's Capacity to Intermediate Local Govermnent Lending", November 1998
by Michael Schaeffer, World Bank (available in the Project Files).
'3 BiH bank reporting requirements consist of three main sources submitted to the Banking Agency: (1) balance
sheet information (prepared monthly); (2) income statement (prepared every six months); and (3) general bank
solvency information (records on capital and asset classification, business risk, presented quarterly). Prevailing
banking regulations are, however, insufficient to establish prudent risk management.  In effect, loan loss
provisioning and loan write-offs are not currently in compliance with intemational standards. Banking supervision
currently also tends to be: (1) primarily quantitative, reduced to compliance monitoring, rather than reviewing
qualitative portfolio issues that might adversely impact future individual bank performance, and the financial system
at large; and (2) ex post, rather than taking a preventative approach to risk management
14 Balance sheets were prepared in accordance with the accounting regulations in place in the Federation and the
Republika Srpska which according to a number of intemational auditors are in full accordance with the International
Standards on Auditing (IAS), except IAS 29, "Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies". Under IAS
29, data at the end of the reporting period and comparative figures should be expressed in terms of the same
measuring unit current on the balance sheet. Financial reports include adjustinents for the effects of inflation on
fixed assets and equity based on the officially published retail price indices, in accordance with the accounting
regulations. This method, however, most likely will not result in the presentation of fixed assets at "fair value" as



31
banks' business on the basis of historical data because special factors such as changes in the national or
legal environment could exert considerable influence on the evolution of the nascent banking sector. In
addition, many state banks were required to submit revised financial statements that "carved-out"non-
performing assets. The net result of the carves-out is to reduce financial assets and capital. Discussions
with Banking Agency officials indicate that after carve-outs several banks would have negative
capitalization. The mission team was unable to obtain the revised post carve-out financial statements.
Notwithstanding the above constraints, the following criteria were defined for a preliminary bank
financial appraisal: (i) The volume of total assets. Total assets are not a sufficient indicator of the
efficiency or solvency of a bank, but they do illustrate some information about the bank's business
volume and institutional capacity; (ii) Equity or Capital Adequacy Ratios. Capital adequacy of between
10-20 percent in the Federation and RS would appear appropriate with respect to the national context; (iii)
Sufficient Liquid Funds. Banks should have sufficient liquid funds on hand to meet short notice cash
disbursements. and, (iv) Growth rates for total assets, equity capital, loan portfolio, and deposit volume.
Given the large number of licensed banks in a relatively small market, consolidation in the banking sector
appears inevitable. The banks with the greatest survival potential are those that expand their capital base
in a prudent manner.
Assessment of Management and Institutional Capacity
In addition to the financial review, the banks were also assessed on the following criteria:  (1)
Governance Structure.  Governance Structure has considerable influence on the banks ability to
implement a municipal credit program successfully, and (2) Institutional Capacity for Lending. The loan
appraisal, review and monitoring process is a significant indicator of a banks' ability to on-lend.
Final Selection Process
It is proposed that a final appraisal and selection of the partner banks is made as part of project
implementation. To ensure that the partner banks are selected based on a transparent and competitive
process, it is recommended that the final selection is done based on a tendering process. The banks short-
listed during appraisal, plus other banks that meet the eligibility criteria, would be invited by the LDF to
submit a proposal to participate as a partner financial intermediary. The LDF bank consultants would
then carry out a final appraisal of the banks and recommend to the LDF which PCBs should be selected
for participation in the LDP, Final selection would be subject to the non-objection of the World Bank.
This will allow a more in-depth inspection of the potential partner banks' financial statements at a time
that is closer to actual loan disbursement and after bank privatization has occurred. At the present time,
bank carve-outs, re-adjustment of fixed assets, and unaudited financial statements make it difficult to
provide a precise bank assessment and make a final decision on bank selection.
required under IAS Section 16 entitled, "Measurements Subsequent to Initial Recognition". Under IAS 16, the
value of fixed assets in inflation conditions is established by independent valuation, and that value affects on the
value of presented equity.



32
Annex 6
Local Development Pilot Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Sub-loans
LDF sub-loans will be used to finance municipal infrastructure sub-projects, largely comprising civil
works and equipment. The nature and scope of sub-projects will only be known during the course of
project implementation, since they are detennined by future demand expressed by the municipalities
themselves. Nevertheless, estimates have been carried out of the likely scope and size of sub-projects -
average investment of KM 0.75 million (US$450,000 equivalent), max. KM 2.0 million (US$1.2 million
equivalent) - to estimate likely procurement arrangements (Table A)
Municipalities will be responsible for the procurement for sub-projects in accordance with World Bank
procurement procedures.  The first year of project implementation will focus on institutional
strengthening at the municipal level in areas including financial management, project planning and
preparation, and public accountability. Providing technical assistance and training to the municipal
borrowers on procurement methods will be an integral part of this assistance which will be provided by an
international consulting firm.
Civil works and goods shall be procured by the municipalities in accordance with the World Bank
Guidelines on "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published in January 1995 and revised
in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999.
The following procurement methods will apply:
(i) Civil Works:
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for works contracts estimated to cost more than
US$500,000;
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) for works contracts estimated to cost less than US$500,000
each to which interested foreign firms will also be allowed to participate, and
Minor Works Procurement Procedure (MW) for works contracts costing less than US$100,000
per contract. Under the Minor Works Procurement Procedure, the works will be procured under
lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations from three qualified domestic
contractors in response to a written invitation.
(ii) Goods and Equipment:
International Competitive Bidding for goods and equipment contracts estimated to cost in excess
of US$200,000 each;
International Shopping (IS) method for goods and equipment contracts costing less than
US$200,000 per contract; and
National Shopping (NS) for goods and equipment contracts costing less than US$50,000.



33
Consulting Services
Consulting services for the contracts to provide technical assistance to local governments (LGUs) and to
local PCBs under Components 1 and 2 of the Project will be procured jointly by the two EntityLDFs, in
accordance with the World Bank Guidelines on "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers", January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999.
The LDFs will be responsible for selection of the consultants through Quality and Cost based selection
procedures. Proposals for both consultant services contracts will be advertised through the General
Procurement Notice and through advertisements in a national newspaper(s) that provides coverage
throughout BIH, "Development Business" and, at least, one newspaper/journal with international
circulation.
Interested firms will submit an expression of interest to the LDFs. The LDFs will jointly review the
expressions of interest and draw up a short-list of three to six qualified firms for each technical assistance
component and request them to make a detailed proposal for the work based on TORs acceptable to the
World Bank. These two contracts shall be subject to the World Bank's prior review and non-objection.
Goodslequipment
Limited amounts of equipment (primarily vehicles and computer equipment) will be purchased by the
LDFs for project management purposes. Goods and equipment will be subject to the following
procurement methods:
International Shopping for goods and equipment contracts costing less than US$200,000.
National Shopping for goods and equipment contracts costing less than US$50,000.
Operating Costs
The project will finance the incremental operating costs of theLDFs on a declining basis, including staff
salaries, office supplies, vehicle operations and staff travel. Under operating costs, US$80,000 is
provided for consultant services, comprising the cost of annual international audits and legal and other
services provided by short-term consultants on an individual basis. The auditors will be selected
according to the Least Cost Selection method which is appropriate for audits given their routine nature.
Individual, short-term consultants will be hired based on a transparent, competitive process involving the
comparison of at least three CVs and selection based on the consultant's experience and qualifications for
the assignment.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Sub-loans. A full prior review by the World Bank will be required for the first sub-loan from each
PCB. Prior review on procurement will be required for all ICB contracts, and the first NCB, MW and IS
contracts procured by each municipality.
Consultant services: All consultant services contracts for firms more than US$100,000 will be
subject to prior review by the World Bank. For contracts with individual consultants, prior review will be
required for: (i) all terms of reference; and (ii) contracts more than US$20,000.



34
Disbursement
For the first year of project implementation, disbursements will be made using the Bank's traditional
transaction-based disbursement method based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The LDFs'
financial management capacity will be reviewed after one year and if it is considered that they have
gained sufficient experience with the FMS and reporting using PMRs, they may switch to PMR-based
disbursement.
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Proceeds of the IDA Credit will finance sub-loans, consultant services, goods and LDF operating costs as
set out in Table C.
The proposed IDA Credit of US$15 million is expected to be disbursed over a period of 48 months after
the date of effectiveness. The Project is expected to be completed by December, 2002. The Project's
Closing Date will be May, 2003.
Disbursements under Category (1) LDF Sub-loans will be disbursed in accordance with the tenrs and
conditions of the sub-loan agreements signed between the LDF and the PCBs. PCBs would be required
to make payment to the municipality in accordance with the sub-loan agreements or the municipality may
delegate the PCB to make direct payment to the works contractors. Advance payments of up to 20
percent will be pernitted. Subsequent disbursements will be based on the value of works completed.
LDF disbursements to PCBs will observe the conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, which will
mirror the conditions of PCB sub-loan agreements with municipalities except for the interest rate charged.
Disbursements under Category (3) Goods, and Category (5) Operating Costs will be made on the basis of
Statement of Expenditures (SOE), except for the auditing contracts.
Disbursements under Category (4) Consultant Services will be against consultant services contracts
signed between the LDFs and the technical assistance service providers. Under the terms of these
agreements, each of which will be subject to prior review by IDA, the LDFs will advance funds
(maximum 15 percent) to the service providers, and make subsequent advances in accordance with the
terms and conditions of the contracts. The contracts with the international consultants shall be based on
the model consultant contracts provided by the World Bank and will be subject to the World Bank's non-
objection.
Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, Special Accounts will be established in
foreign commercial banks, acceptable to IDA, for both the Federation and the Republika Srpska, with an
authorized allocation of US$1,000,000 and US$500,000 respectively. The day-to-day management and
signature for disbursements from the Special Accounts will be delegated by the State Ministry of Foreign
Trade and Economic Relations and the Federation and RS Ministries of Finance to the LDF Executive
Directors in order to facilitate rapid project implementation. Replenishment applications will be
forwarded to the Bank by the LDF with reconciled bank statements and other appropriate documentation.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs): Disbursements will be based on full documentation of
expenditures for the following: (a) consultant contracts over US$20,000 for individuals and over
US$100,000 for firms; and (b) LDF sub-loans for which prior review is required. Disbursements for all
other expenditures will be made on the basis of statements of expenditure certified by the LDF Directors.
The required supporting documents will be retained by the LDF for at least one year after receipt by the
Bank of the audit report for the year in which the disbursement was made. This documentation will be
made available for review by auditors and by visiting IDA staff upon request.



35
Externalfinancialproject audits
International audits will be conducted on an annual basis by international auditors acceptable to the Bank
in accordance with International Auditing Standards as issued by the International Federation of
Accountants. The State Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is currently in the process of
hiring international auditors to audit all ongoing World Bank-financed projects. The contract will be a
two year contract with the option to renew for up to two additional years based on performance. These
auditors are expected to be employed by April, 1999. The LDP accounts will be audited by this auditing
firm in FY2000 provided their performance this FY proves satisfactory to the Bank. The external audit
will include audits of all LDF accounts. Furthermore, all PCBs will be required to submit to theLDFs
their annual external audits. In addition, borrowing municipalities will be required to carry out a financial
management review and an audit related to LDF sub-project expenditures. External audits at all levels
will help support the signal that allocation criteria - especially creditworthiness - must be strictly adhered
to and will be audited thoroughly for all LDP project participants.



36
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category       Procurement Method                          Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB        NCB        Other a    N.B.F b
1. Sub-loans               2.5        8.7        1.3                   12.5
(2.5)      (8.0)      (1.3)                (11.8)
2. Consulting services                            3.6                  3.6
(2.3)                (2.3)
3. Equipment/vehicles                            0.1                   0.1
('0.1)               (0.1)
4. Operating Costs                                0.8                  0.8
(0.8)                (0.8)
Total                   2.5         8.7        5.8        0.0        17.0
(2.5)      (8.0)      (4.5)                 (15.0)
Notes: Numbers may not add up due to rounding. Aggregate amounts for various
procurement methods are tentative and subject to change.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
a/ "Other" procurement methods includes:
Sub-loans - Minor Works Procurement Procedures (estimated US$1.0 million
total for sub-loans less than US$100,000)
International Shopping - for goods and equipment contracts costing less than
US$200,000 (estimated US$1.0)
Consulting services - estimated US$5.0 million for consulting services under
Components I and 2; US$150,000 for consulting services under LDF operating
costs and US$30,000 price contingency (unallocated)
Equipment/vehicles - includes international and national shopping
Operating costs - includes recurrent cost expenditures (salaries, utilities, vehicle
operation etc.)
b/ N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing
procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other
miscellaneous items)



37
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method                      Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                          (including
Expenditure Category                                                        contingencies)
QCBS   QBS   SFB   LCS   CQ    Other  N.B.F.
A. Firms              2.3                     0.03                                2.33
B. Individuals                                             0.05                   0.05
2.38
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.



38
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure        Contract Value        Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Category           (Threshold)            Method              Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US $ thousands                              US $ millions
1. Sub-loans                             ICB                                2.5
< 500,000     NCB for works                       8.0
< 100,000      Minor works                        0.5
< 200,000      IS for goods                       0.4
2. Consultant services                   QCBS                               2.3
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   13.7



1                  2             3              4                                     6. Estimated Dates
Description1          Type2       Number of    Estimated   Procurement          Prepare         Invitation to     Award         Contract
slices/items/    cost4       Methods         Tendering            Bid          Contract      Completion
sub-packages3
I Civil Works
Sub-loans for muaicipal    CW             N/A            10.8         NCB       First sub-loan disbursements/procurement of civil works/goods expected
infrastructure projects                                                         early 2000.
(civil works and/or goods)
IL Goods                 _
Sub-loans for municipal     G             N/A            1.0         ICB/IS      First sub-loan disbursements/procurement civil works/goods expected
infrastructure projects                                                         early 2000                                                         i
(civil works and/or goods)            .
Im  Consultant Services                                                                                                                              ^
TA for Local Goverunent      CS             1             1.3          QCBS       GPN - Jan 31, 99;   March, 1999     June, 1999     May, 2001
Capacity Building                                                               prepare TOR -                                                    a   U.)
Feb,_1999     __
TAforBanking Sector         CS             I             1.0         QCBS       GPN- Jan31, 99;    April 1999       August 1999     July 2001
Capacity Building                                                               prepare TOR -                                                    0
____ ___ ___   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ F eb ,_1999   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1V. Equipment            __
Computer equipment,        G              4             0.10         ISINS      Equipment and vehicles to be purchased over a 4 month period after
vehicles for LDFs                                                             LDF establishment scheduled for March, 1999 on the basis of LDF
operating budget.
V. Recurrent Costs
Operating costs for LDF    Other        Various          0.80         Other      Distributed throughout the first 3 years of the project on the basis of
_  LDF operating budget.
Total         [                            (    15.0      l            I
This procurement plan is based on tentative estimates. The LDF, with the assistance of international consultants, will be responsible, for preparing a more detailed
procurement plan once sub-loan applications are submitted.
Name of Package or contract.
2 Indicate code: CW for civil works; G for goods; CS for consulting services;
3 Indicate number of slices, major items or sub-packages expected in the package.
Expressed in US$ '000; e.g., 5,000 + US$ 5,000,000.
5 Indicate ICB, LIB, NCB, IS, NS, DC, Q (for major civil works), FA (for force account), QBCS (for quality and cost based selection of consultant firms), CM (for commercial
practices based selection of consultant fuims), FXB (for fixed budget selection of consultant firmsO, LCS (for least cost selection of consultant firms), SS (for sole-sourcing of
firms or individuals), Other (for recurrent costs on the basis of administrative procedures based on acceptable schedule and budget).



40
Annex 6, Table B2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical
Assistance Requirements
Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance
Requirements
Procurement of the consultant services contracts will be carried out by the Local Development Funds to
be established by the Entity Governments. Procurement of civil works/goods will be carried out by the
municipal government borrowers. These municipalities will be selected during project implementation
according to agreed criteria. As part of the technical assistance and training to municipalities under the
Local Govermment Capacity Building component, training in procurement methods will be provided.
In addition, the LDF, with the support of intemational consultants, will be responsible for overseeing
procurement and ensuring that it complies with the World Bank guidelines.
Country Procurement Assessment Report has not   Are the bidding documents for the procurement
yet been prepared for Bosnia and Herzegovina  actions for the f rst year ready by negotiations:
No
Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated Date of  Date of Publication of    Indicate if there is  Domestic  Domestic
Project Launch    General Procurement  procurement subject to   Preference    Preference
Workshop:            Notice:          mandatory SPN in    for Goods:   for Works:
May 1999         January 31, 1999   Development Business:      No           No
Yes
Retroactive Financing: No                   Advance Procurement: No
Explain briefly the procurement monitoring system:
TBD
Co-financing. Explain briefly the procurement arrangements for cofinancing: All procurement
financed under joint cofinancing arrangements to be done in accordance with IBRD/IDA guidelines.
Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement staff or Bank's staffpart of Task Team responsible for the procurement
in the Project:
Name: Ron Isaacson Ext: 544-3000
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: Provide initial review of
procurement documentation.



41
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category             Amount in US$    Financing Percentage
Part A of the Project (Federation)
1. Sub-loans                               8,256,990         100% (of amounts
disbursed)
2. Goods                                   73,500            100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 85%
of other items locally
procured.
3. Consultant services, training and auditing  1,690,290     100%
4. Incremental operating costs             342,300           90% until
disbursements have
reached US$ 260,000
and 75% thereafter
SUB-TOTAL                                  10,363,080
Part B of the Project (Republika Srpska)
1. Sub-loans                               3,538,710         100% (of amounts
disbursed)
2. Goods                                   31,500            100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 85%
of other items locally
procured.
3. Consultant services, training and auditing  724,410       100%
5. Incremental operating costs             342,300           90% until
disbursements have
reached US$ 260,000
and 75% thereafter
SUB-TOTAL                                  4,636,920
TOTAL                                      15,000,000



42
Annex 7
Local Development Pilot Project
Public Information and Consultation Strategy
Based on feedback from the Social Assessment a public information and consultation strategy has been
drawn up. This would allow public consultation and input into the capital budgeting process. During
implementation, this strategy will be discussed with participating municipalities and modified as
appropriate to the municipal context. The steps of the proposed public consultation strategy are described
below:
1.   The municipality issues a public notice informing key stakeholders, including local community
councils, NGOs, other civil society organizations active within the municipality and the public about the
intention to make investments in municipal infrastructure to improve public services, and invites them to
provide feedback and suggestions through local councilors or directly to the mayor's office.
Simultaneously, the municipality sends a letter to local council members with a copy of the public notice,
requiring them to obtain feedback from their respective constituencies.
2.   The municipal government convenes a technical meeting of its staff to select the sub-project for
which feasibility studies are to be commissioned. Members of local councils are invited to attend the
technical meeting and provide feedback they may have obtained from their respective constituencies.
3.   Consequent to the technical meeting, the municipality commissionsfeasibility studies by technical
experts to prepare detailed technical designs, costs, alternative investment options, and projected benefit
streams from the alternative investinents.
4.   On completion of the feasibility studies, the municipality issues asecond public notice, with a copy
to key stakeholders, including representatives of local councils, NGOs and other civil society organizations
active within the municipality, providing information about the proposed investment plan and inviting them
to a public hearing.
5.    At the public hearing, the mayor informs participants about:
*  the intention to borrow money to improve municipal infrastructure
*  the nature of the proposed sub-project
*  the size of the loan which the overall state of the municipal budget allows them to borrow
*  the source and terms of the expected loan
*  the liability being incurred by the municipality for loan repayment
*  the need to collect user charges or additional revenue to meet this liability.
6.   At the public hearing, participants are given an opportunity to raise objections or make additional
suggestions to improve the investment plan. Specifically, they are consulted on:
*  the acceptability of the proposed sub-project
*  scope of infrastructure works for which investment of loan funds is desirable
*  willingness to pay enhanced user charges and/or other taxes to repay the loan
*  sectoral priorities for future municipal investments.
7.   Final modifications are made to the feasibility report after the public hearing.



43
8.   The Municipal Assembly meets again to review the results of the public hearing and the revised
feasibility report(s), to approve necessary modifications to the municipal budget, to approve the loan
application which is to be submitted to the PCB, and to establish a sub-committee to approve the final loan
agreement.
9.   The municipality submits the loan application to the PCB, along with the feasibility report and
documentation of the public consultation process.
10.  After approval of the loan by the PCB, the subsidiary loan agreement between the PCB and the
municipality is ratified by the sub-committee appointed by the municipal assembly, before it becomes
effective.



44
Annex 8
Local Development Pilot Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                     Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Project Preparation/Appraisal                  148,000               146,000
Social Assessment                              81,000                75,000
B. Project Schedule                            Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       9                     11
First Bank mission (identification)          01/12/1998             01/12/1998
PCD Review Meeting                           03/04/1998             03/20/1998
Appraisal mission departure                  07/27/1998             07/27/1998
Post-appraisal mission departure              11/30/1998            11/09/1998
Negotiations                                  12/15/1998            03/04/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                05/15/1999               / /1999
Prepared by: Government counterpart teams in both Entities comprising representatives from the
Ministries of Finance, Local Administration, Urbanism and Foreign Economic Relations, and the
Employment and Training Foundations, in collaboration with World Bank project team.
Preparation assistance: US$150,000 PHRD grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Sarah Forster (ECCBA)                         Team Leader
Michael Schaeffer (TWURD)          Financial Analyst/Municipal Finance Expert
Anis Dani (ECSSD)                          Social Scientist
Hans Shrader (ECSPE)                           Economist
Dilek Barlas (LEGEC)                         Legal Counsel
Ahmet Gokce (ECS1N)                      Procurement Specialist
Goran Tinjic (ECCBA)                         Project Officer
Sonia Hammam (MNSID)                          Peer Reviewer
External Consultants
Roy Gilbert                Municipal Development Specialist/Economist
Larry Seale                         Public Finance Specialist
Pierre-Marie Berard                           Engineer
Xavier Devictor                          Political Scientist



45
Annex 9
Local Development Pilot Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan prepared by Government project teams and World Bank, February,
1999.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
"Appraisal of the Banking Sector's Capacity to Intermediate Government Lending in BIHl",
Michael Schaeffer, World Bank, November 1998.
C. Other
"Local Government Sector in BIH and its Creditworthiness", Lawrence C. Seale, assisted by
Marinko Sakic, October 1998.
Accompanying report, "Local Government Creditworthiness in Bosnia-Herzegovina: Report II-
Sample Jurisdiction Data," including:
- Summary Assessment Report on each of the 24 sample jurisdictions
- Questionnaire data submitted by each of the sample jurisdictions
- List of projects submitted by each of the sample jurisdictions.
- Individual and summary electronic data files available for all creditworthiness data.
Draft Terms of Reference for Consultant Services Contracts for Local Government and Banking
Sector Capacity Building Components.
Financial reports, including independent audit reports, for nine short-listed banks in BIH.
Project proposals and development plans submitted by a number of local government authorities.



46
Annex 10
Local Development Pilot Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS a'
(As of January 31, 1999)
US$ Million
Loan      Fiscal                                                                   (Less Cancellations)
No.       Year       Borrower                          Project                      Loan Undisbursed
Loans/Credits/Grants
IBRD b/
4038-BOS 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Consolidation Loan A                     28.6      0.0
4039-BOS 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Consolidation Loan B                    284.9     0.0
4040-BOS 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Consolidation Loan C                    307.1     0.0
Total                                        620.6      0.0
Of Which: Repaid                         24.9
Total Now Held by the Bank:              595.7
TFBH"' (Under Disbursement)
TF-024030 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Recovery Credit                 45.0      0.0
TF-024031 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Farm Reconstruction            20.0      0.0
TF-024032 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Water Supply                   20.0      0.0
TF-024033 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Transport                      35.0      2.0
TF-024034 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency District Heating                20.0      0.3
TF-024035 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation      5.0      0.0
TF-024040 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Education Reconstruction        5.0      0.0
Total                                        150.0      2.3
IDA
2897-BOS 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Education Reconstruction        5.0      0.0
2896-BOS 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation      5.0      3.2
2902-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Housing Repair                 15.0      0.0
2903-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Power Reconstruction           35.6      0.3
2904-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Public Works and Employment    10.0      1.0
2905-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Landmines Clearance             7.5      0.0
2906-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration  7.5    0.8
2914-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Transition Assistance Credit             90.0      0.0
NOOI-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Industry Re-Start Guarantee    10.0      0.0
N002-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Microenterprise/Local lnitiatives  7.0    0.8
N003-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Essential Hospital Services              15.0      5.1
N032-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Transport Reconstruction II              39.0      9.9
N035-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina   Education Reconstruction II               11.0      3.3
3028-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Reconstruction Assistance Project        17.0      6.8
3029-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Natural Gas                    10.0      1.5
3070-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Pilot Credit (RS)               5.0      3.7
3071-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Power II                                 25.0     25.0
N040-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Forestry                                  7.0      6.5
3090-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Public Finance I (Structural Adjustment)  63.0     0.0
Total                                             384.6      67.9
a/ The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all BankiDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
b' Consolidation Loans A, B, and C were approved on June 13, 1996 and becane effective on June 14, 1996.
C/ Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina



47
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of January 31, 1999)
Gross Commitments
USS Million-
Fiscal
Year      Obligor                            Type of Business                          Loan    Equity    Total
1977      Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin  Timber, Pulp and Paper                    3.92     0.00      3.92
1985      Sour Energoinvest                  Industrial Equipment and Machinery        9.09     0.00      9.09
1997      Horizonte BiH Enterprise Fund      SME Investment                            0.00     2.05      2.05
1997      Microenterprise Bank               Microcredit                               0.00     0.58      0.58
1997      Sarajevska Pivara                  Beverage Manufacturing                    4.18     0.00      4.18
1998      SEF Kopex                          Industrial and Consumer Services          2.65     0.00      2.65
1998      SEF Akmeat                         Abbatoir, Meat Packing and Processing     2.24     0.00      2.24
1998     Wood Agency Credit Line             Fumiture and Other Wood Products         14.73    0.00      14.73
1998      SEF Lignosper                      Fumiture Manufacturing                    2.45     0.00      2.45
Total Gross Investments                                                 39.26    2.6       41.88
Participations, Cancellations, Terminations, Exchange Adjustments,
Repayments, and Arrears (Principal Only)                               13.01    0.00      3.01
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                       39.26    2.62      41.88
Total Undisbursed                                                       15.28    1.65      16.93
Total Outstanding                                                       23.98   0.97      24.95



48
Annex 11
Local Development Pilot Project
Bosnia and Herzegovina at a glance                                                                    3t12199
Bosnia  Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    and    Central     Low-
Herzeogovina     Asia  income        Developmentdhamond
1998
Population, mid-year (millions)                       4.2       476      2,048                Life expectancy
GNP per capita (At/as method, US$)                      ..    2,320       350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       ..    1,106        722
Average annual growth, 1991097
Population (9)                                        0.1        0.2       2.1
Labor force (96)                                      0.3        0.5       2.3     GNP                              Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                              capita                       enrolment
Poverty (% of population below national poverly line)
Urban popubtion (% oftotalpopulation)                  42        67        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                 69        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               19        25        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                                  Access to safe water
Access to safe water (6 of population)                  ..        ..       71
lrfteracy (% of population age 15+)                                        47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)            92        91          -     Bosnia and Herzegovina
Male                                                                    100                Low-income group
Female                                                                   81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1997      1998
Economic ratoe
GDP (US$ billions)                            ..        ..       3.4       4.1
Gross domestic investmentVGDP                                   42.0      38.0
Exports of goods and servicesdGDP                               29.3      33.5                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                      -6.1       4.5
Gross national savings/GDP                                       9.7      13.6
Current account balance/GOP                                    -32.3    -24A4
Interest payments/GDP                                            6.7      217      Domestic                    Investment
Total debtGDP                                                  128.3      70.5     Savings
Total debt service/exports                                       38         9
Present value of debt/GDP
Present value of debtexportsr
Indebtedness
197646  198747      1996       1997      1998
(average annual growth)
GDP                                                  69.1       29.5      17.7                Bosnia and Heazegovina
GNP per capita                                                                          -     Low-income group
Exports of goods and services                        99.3       57.7      34.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986       1997      1998     Growth rates of output and nvestment(%)
('A of GDP)                                                                       20.
Agriculture                                                                       200D
Industry                                                                          150                        \
Manufacturing                                                                    100                          \
Services                                      5.                                          ,   ,   ,
0
Private consumption                                                                      92  93  94  95  96  97  94
General govemment consumption                                                               -G Dt         -e- GOP
Imports of goods and services                                   77A       67.0
1976486  198747       1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and Imports I%)
(average annual growth)
Agricu'ture                                                                       140 .
Industry                                                          ''        ''   100
Manufacturing                                                                    so
Services                                                                            0                          Q \so
40 
Private consumption                                                                20 . .2
General government consumption                                                      o -    ,   , 0,
Gross domestic investment                                       22.1       9.9           92  93  94  05  Oa  97  a5
Imports of goods and services                                   14.3       2.2            -     Exports    0    Imports
Gross national product
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators In the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the dIamond wil
be incomplete.



49
Bosnia and Herzegovina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1997      1998       Inflation (%)
Domesbc pnces
(% change)                                                                              2
Consumer prices                                    ..
Implicit GDP deflator                                            ..              ..
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                             ..                                  92    93    94    es    96    97
Current budget balance                                                                          -G DP deflator  -QCPI
Overall surplus/defici                            ..        .._.._,.
TRADE
1976     1986       1997      1998       Export and import levels (US$ millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                               ..        ..       575       817      3,000
Commodity 1                                                                           2,s00
Commodity 2                                                           .2000
Manufactures                                    ..
Total imports (ciF)                               ..        ..     2,371      2,460     1,5000
Food                                             ..       ..         .,               1,000                     _i4D4D
Fuel and energy                                   . .       .         .         .       500-
Capital goods                                    ..       ..         ..        ..        o      , , ,         ,-.L 
91  92  93  04  00  96  97  98
Export price index (1995=100)                      ..
Import price index (1995=100)                     ..        ..         ..        ..               0 Exports     fl Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                          ..       .._.._..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986       1997      1998       Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                     ..        ..     1,002      1,367      0
Imports of goods and services                     ..        ..     2,650     2,735       -  91  92  93                e   97  98
Resource balance                                   ..       ..    -1,648    -1,368      -tL
Net income                                         ..       ..      -228      -109      -15
Net current transfers                              ..       ..       772       480      -20
Current account balance                           ..        ..    -1,104       -997     -2_
Financing items (net)                             ..        ..     1,061      1,021     -30
Changes in net reserves                            *                  43        -24     -35
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)            ..
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                           Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              ..        ..     4,392      2,879
IBRD                                            ..       ..        596       581
IDA                                             ..       ..        291       433                                  A:581
Total debt service                                ..        ..       385       123            E: 822
IBRD                                             .                  35        35
IDA                                             .         ..         2         3
Composition of ne resource flows
Official grants                                 ..       ..        612       612                                      /B:433
Official creditors                                        ..       443       328
Private creditors                               ..       ..       -107       -75    |                                             |
Foreign direct investment                        ..      ..          0       100                                      c: 77
Portfolio equity                                ,,0                            0                 D:966
World Bank program
Commitments                                     ..       ..         77       100      A - IBRD                       E - Bilaterai
Disbursements                                   ..       ..        111       142      B - IDA    D - Other multiateral   F - Prvate
Principal repayments                            ..        *-         0         0      C - IMF                        G - Short-term
Netflows                                         ..        ..      111       142    1_1
Interest payments                               ..       ..         37        38
Net transfers                                   ..        ..        74       104
Development Economics                                                                                                       3/12/99



IBRD 28578R
l o   ~ tx  tSsTo Zagreb   18         To Osijek                      B
To Zogre  To Zagreb~ ~~~~~~~~PIe~O                                             T
rozogres5  _    _CROATIA                       |AooiSvi
To Vinkovro                   zii
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WT  .0   |0. -  .~ AUTRA  HUGR   / 5 07
no
WS~~~~~ACPfA~~  flfPd Ws                  -SSf
~~~~~~~NATO ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~COE 1997~ D~e 
45,                                                                                    C.,I~~~~~~~~~~0~t.~eeeSe  -
V  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~'~~~~~~~~0~~~~~~~~\  ~~~~~~~~0                             -
~eer(~eefaemeem                              40
TUKE
OCOER19



