Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3191 BOS
Project Agreement
(Local Development Pilot Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
Dated as of June 3, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3191 BOS 
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of June 3, 1999 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and Republika Srpska (Republika Srpska).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million 
one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,100,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
Republika Srpska agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary financing and project implementation agreement to be 
entered into among the Borrower, Republika Srpska and RS LDF (the Subsidiary Financing 
and Project Implementation Agreement), the Borrower will make available to Republika 
Srpska a portion of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement and Republika Srpska will make available said portion of the proceeds 
of the Credit to RS LDF on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Financing 
and Project Implementation Agreement; and
WHEREAS Republika Srpska in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II 
Execution of Part B of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Republika Srpska declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall cause RS LDF to carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, banking, 
environmental and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and Republika Srpska shall otherwise agree, Republika 
Srpska shall cause RS LDF to carry out Part B of the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part B of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Republika Srpska shall exercise its rights under the Republika 
Srpska Subsidiary Financing and Project Implementation Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of Republika Srpska, the Association and the RS LDF and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Republika Srpska Subsidiary 
Financing and Project Implementation Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.04. (a) Republika Srpska shall and shall cause RS LDF, at the request 
of the Association, to exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress 
of Part B of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and 
under the Subsidiary Financing and Project Implementation Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
Republika Srpska shall and shall cause RS LDF to promptly inform the 
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the 
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the 
performance by Republika Srpska of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Financing and Project Implementation Agreement. 
Section 2.05. (a) Republika Srpska shall cause RS LDF to carry out the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of Part B of the 
Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, RS LDF shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association, Republika Srpska and RS LDF a 
plan for the future operation of Part B of the Project;
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with Republika Srpska and RS LDF on said plan; and 
(iii)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency 
and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account 
the Association’s comments thereon.
ARTICLE III 
Page  3
Financial Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) Republika Srpska shall cause RS LDF to establish and maintain 
a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, in a format acceptable to the Association adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures in connection with the carrying out of the 
Project.
(b)
Republika Srpska shall cause RS LDF to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
and the records and accounts for the Special Accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as so audited; and (B) the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, Republika Srpska shall cause RS LDF to carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of the financial management system 
referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 3.01 in order to enable RS LDF, not later 
than December 31, 1999, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, RS LDF shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later that forty-five (45) days after 
the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
Republika Srpska thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
Page  4
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
a date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify Republika 
Srpska of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Republika Srpska:
Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska
Ul. Vuka Karadzica 4
78000 Banja Luka
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Republika 
Srpska or by Republika Srpska on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit 
Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Minister of Finance, or by such other 
person or persons as Republika Srpska shall designate in writing, and Republika Srpska 
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Rory O’ Sullivan 
Authorized Representative
Page  5
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
By /s/ Milorad Dodik 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Implementation Schedule 
1.
RS LDF shall maintain the Subsidiary Financing and Project Implementation 
Agreement and the Operational Guidelines in form and content satisfactory to the 
Association and Republika Srpska, shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Financing and Project Implementation Agreement and the Operational 
Guidelines and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Financing and 
Project Implementation Agreement or the Operational Guidelines without obtaining the 
prior approval of the Association.
2.
RS LDF shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of Part B of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on February 28 of each year, commencing on February 28, 
2000, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of Part B of the Project during the twelve-month period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by March 31 of each year during the 
execution of the Project, or such later date as the Association shall request, the 
report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Part B of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
3.
For the purposes of carrying out Part B.3 of the Project, RS LDF shall:
(a)
relend to the PFIs the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to Category (B) (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement under Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be 
entered into between RS LDF and each such PFI, under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Association, and which shall include, without limitation, 
those set forth in the Annex to this Schedule;
(b)
monitor the overall execution of Part B.3 of the Project and the carrying 
out by the PFIs of their obligations under their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
in accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate on its part 
to enable the PFIs to perform in accordance with the provisions of their respective 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements all the obligations of the PFIs therein set forth, and not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance; and
(d)
in respect of payment of interest or other charges on, or repayment of 
principal, made to it by PFIs, under the Sub-loans:
(i)
open and thereafter maintain a separate account on its books in 
accordance with its financial procedures and on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
(ii)
upon receipt of each such payment or repayment, credit the same to 
the said separate account;
Page  6
(iii)
utilize all amounts so credited to the said separate account, to 
the extent they are not yet required to meet RS LDF’s repayment 
obligations to Republika Srpska under the Subsidiary Financing and 
Project Implementation Agreement, exclusively to finance its 
operating costs acceptable to the Association and other 
Sub-projects in accordance with the terms and conditions of this 
Schedule 1 and the Operational Guidelines; and
(iv)
prepare and furnish to the Association at regular intervals all 
such information, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, on the status of said separate account and on the 
utilization of the amounts credited thereto.
(e)
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Association, the Borrower and Republika Srpska and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1 
Principal Terms and Conditions of 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
The principal terms and conditions set forth in this Schedule shall apply for 
the purposes of paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
A.
Terms
1.
The principal amount to be relent out of the proceeds of the Credit to a PFI 
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be denominated in DEM and be the 
equivalent of the aggregate amount of the principal of all Sub-loans made out of the 
proceeds thereof.
2.
(a) 
The Subsidiary Loan shall: (i) be charged quarterly, on the principal 
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest at a rate equal 
to the annual London interbank offered rate for three months deposits in Euro in 
effect the first day of each calendar quarter, plus one percent (1%), not to exceed an 
interest rate of four percent (4%); such interest rate shall be reviewed by the 
parties annually; (ii) have a maturity of not more than ten (10) years; and (iii) be 
repaid , in respect of interest and principal amount, quarterly.
(b)
For the purposes of paragraph (a) above, "Euro" means the lawful currency 
of the member states of the European Union that adopt the single currency in 
accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Community, as amended by the 
Treaty on European Union.
3.
The right of a PFI to the use of the proceeds of its respective Subsidiary Loan 
shall be: (a) suspended upon failure of such PFI to perform any of its obligations 
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement or to continue to be in compliance with 
all legal and regulatory requirements applicable to its operations; and (b) terminated 
if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to subparagraph (a) hereof for a 
continuous period of sixty (60) days.
B.
Conditions
1.
A Subsidiary Loan Agreement may be entered into with a PFI, which RS LDF shall 
have determined, and the Association shall have agreed, that such PFI:
(a)
is duly established and licensed to operate in Republika Srpska;
(b)
has a managerial capacity acceptable to the Association;
(c)
has a sound and balanced credit risk management program acceptable to the 
Association;
(d)
is operating pursuant to investment and lending policies and procedures 
acceptable to the Association, and has undertaken to maintain said policies and 
procedures; and
(e)
is in compliance with applicable banking agency regulations and 
prudential regulations of Republika Srpska.
Page  7
2.
Each respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to 
which each respective PFI shall undertake to:
(a)
carry out activities under Part B.3 of the Project and conduct its 
operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate financial standards and 
practices, with qualified management and staff in adequate numbers, and in conformity 
with the investment and lending policies and procedures referred to in paragraph 1 (c) 
hereof, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the purpose;
(b)
(i)
make Sub-loans to Sub-borrowers on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Operational Guidelines including, without limitation, 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Attachment to this 
Annex;
(ii) 
exercise its rights in relation to each such Sub-loan in such 
manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the 
Borrower, Republika Srpska and the Association, comply with its 
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement and 
achieve the purposes of Part B.3 of the Project;
(iii)
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements 
providing for Sub-loans, or any provision thereof, without prior 
approval of Republika Srpska; and
(iv)
appraise Sub-projects and supervise, monitor and report on the 
carrying out by the Sub-borrowers of Sub-projects, in accordance 
with the Operational Guidelines;
(c)
maintain, with staff and other resources and under terms of reference, 
satisfactory to the Association and RS LDF:  
(i)
a credit committee to be responsible for the evaluation and 
approval of Sub-loan applications; and
(ii)
a technical staff to be responsible for the appraisal and 
supervision of the carrying out of Sub-projects;
(d)
(i)
exchange views with, and furnish all such information to the 
Association or RS LDF, as may be reasonably requested by the 
Association, Republika Srpska or the RS LDF, with regard to the 
progress of its activities under Part B.3 of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under its respective Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of Part 
B.3 of the Project;
(ii)
prepare and submit to RS LDF quarterly reports on Sub-loan 
disbursements and repayments, and on the progress made in 
achieving the objectives outlined in the business plans submitted 
with the Sub-loan applications; and
(iii)
promptly inform the Association and RS LDF of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its 
activities under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(e)
(i)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance 
with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial 
condition; and
(ii)
furnish to the Association such information concerning said 
records and accounts as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request; and
(f)
assume the credit risk of each Sub-loan.
ATTACHMENT TO THE ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1 
Terms and Conditions of the Sub-loans
The provisions of this Attachment shall be for the purposes of paragraph 2 (b) 
(i) of Part B of the Annex to this Schedule 1.
Page  8
1.
The principal amount of each Sub-loan made out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to Category (B) (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement shall:
(a)
be denominated in KM, and be the equivalent in KM (determined as of the 
date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out of the 
Special Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out 
on account of the cost of goods and works financed out of such proceeds for Sub-loans 
under Part B.3 of the Project; and 
(b)
not exceed the equivalent of KM 2,000,000 and 90% of the investment cost 
related to the Sub-project.
2.
Each Sub-loan shall be:
(a)
charged monthly, on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, an interest rate determined by the PFI which shall not 
exceed a rate to be agreed between RS LDF and the Association;
(b)
repaid, in respect of interest on the outstanding principal balance of 
the Sub-loan, monthly, as determined by the PFI in accordance with its investment and 
lending policies; and
(c)
repaid, in respect of the principal balance of the Sub-loan disbursed and 
outstanding, within a period of ten (10) years or less.
3.
No expenditures for a Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of a Sub-loan unless:
(a)
the first Sub-loan made by each PFI shall have been approved by the 
Association and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 180 days prior 
to the date on which the Association shall have received the application and 
information required under paragraph (4) of this Attachment in respect of such 
Sub-loan; or
(b)
except as provided under paragraph (a) above, the Sub-loan for such 
Sub-project shall have been a free-limit Sub-loan (as hereinafter defined) for which 
the Association shall have authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 180 days prior to the date on which 
the Association shall have received the request and information required under 
paragraph 4 (b) of this Attachment in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan.  For the 
purposes hereof, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for a Sub-project to be 
made by each respective PFI in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit which shall not exceed the sum determined from time to time by the Association 
and notified to RS LDF and each such respective PFI.
4.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan, other than a free-limit Sub-loan, to the 
Association for approval, the PFI shall furnish to the Association, through RS LDF, an 
application, in a form satisfactory to the Association, together with:
(i)
a description of the Sub-borrower, including the municipal or city 
budget, a capital spending plan and balance sheet and income 
statement information;
(ii)
a municipal or city development plan, as appropriate;
(iii)
the appraisal of the Sub-project, including a financial plan and 
cost recovery scheme in respect of the investment necessary for 
the Sub-project and a description of the expenditures proposed to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(iv)
the economic justification of the Sub-project;
(v)
in the case of an entity operating a public service, a business 
plan, including a cost recovery plan and recent and projected 
financial statements of the Sub-borrower;
(vi)
a project implementation plan, including the schedule for the 
implementation of works;
(vii)
the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the 
Page  9
schedule of amortization therefor; and
(viii)any such other information as the Association shall reasonably 
request.
(b)
Each request for authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain:
(i)
a summary description of the Sub-borrower and the Sub-project, 
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and
(ii)
the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule 
of amortization therefor.
5.
Sub-loans shall be made to Sub-borrower each shall have established, to the 
satisfaction of the PFI making the Sub-loan, on the basis of the Operational 
Guidelines that:
(a)
it is creditworthy based on an analysis, undertaken in accordance with 
criteria set forth in the Operational Guidelines;
(b)
it has a satisfactory financial structure and the organization, 
management, staff and financial and other sources required for the efficient carrying 
out of their operations, including the carrying out of the Sub-project.
(c)
it utilizes the proceeds of the Sub-loan in the carrying out of a 
Sub-project determined by RS LDF (in accordance with appraisal principles satisfactory 
to the Association) to be technically, financially and environmentally feasible; 
(d)
it maintains a debt service coverage ratio, calculated in accordance with 
the Operational Guidelines; and
(e)
its projected financial resources shall be sufficient to enable it to 
meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the Sub-project.
6.
Sub-loans shall be made for Sub-projects which are each determined, on the basis 
of an appraisal carried out in accordance with the Operational Guidelines, to be:
(a)
technically feasible and economically and financially viable, based on 
criteria set forth in the Operational Guidelines;
(b)
for revenue generating Sub-projects, able to generate revenues adequate 
to cover the operating and maintenance costs thereof as they are incurred and to 
recover in progressive steps over an appropriate period of time a reasonable portion 
of the capital costs thereof, all as shall be determined and calculated by the PFI in 
accordance with the Operational Guidelines; and
(c)
in compliance with environmental standards satisfactory to the 
Association and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations of Republika 
Srpska relating to health, safety and environmental protection.
7.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the PFI making the Sub-loan shall 
obtain, by written contract or other appropriate means, rights adequate to protect its 
interest and those of RS LDF, Republika Srpska and the Association, including the 
right to:
(a)
require the Sub-borrower to carry out the Sub-project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, economic, financial and 
commercial practices, to maintain adequate records, and to provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities and other resources required for the purpose;
(b)
require that: (i) the works, goods and consultants’ services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services 
be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association or 
RS LDF, if the Association, Republika Srpska or RS LDF shall so request, the goods and 
the sites, works, plans and construction included in the Sub-project, the operation 
thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
Page  10
(d)
require that the Sub-borrower shall take out and maintain such insurance, 
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business 
practice, including such insurance to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Sub-borrower to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
carry out and operate the Sub-project in accordance with appropriate 
health, safety and environmental standards, satisfactory to the Association;
(f)
obtain all such information as the Association, Republika Srpska or RS 
LDF shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial condition of the Sub-borrower and to the benefits to be 
derived from the Sub-project; and
(g)
suspend or terminate the right of the Sub-borrower to the use of the 
proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Sub-borrower to perform its obligations 
under its contract with the PFI.
SCHEDULE 2 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part A.
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Page  11
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract procured pursuant to Part B of this Section 
I; and (ii) the first contract procured by each Sub-borrower pursuant to Part C.1, 
C.2, and C.4 of this Section I, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999(the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under Part B.1 and 2 of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services under Part B.4 of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Page  12
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
