Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12616
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
NINTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2837-ME)
DECEMBER 21, 1993
Country Department II
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit - Old Mexican Peso (Mex$)
Exchange Rates:  At Appraisal:  US$1 = Mex$1,214.00
Average During Implementation: US$1 = Mex$2,388.76
On Loan Closing, June 30, 1992: US$1 = Mex$3,122.30
Fiscal Year
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGROASEMEX   Aseguradora de Mexico para la Agricultura (Agricultural Insurance Company
of Mexico)
ANAGSA            Aseguradora Nacional Agricola (National Agricultural Insurance Company)
BANXICO           Banco de Mexico (Central Bank of Mexico)
BANRURAL          Banco Nacional de Credito Rural (National Rural Credit Bank)
CPI               Consumer Price Index
CPP               Costo Porcentual Promedio (Average Cost of Funds)
FEFA              Fondo Especial para Financiamientos Agropecuarios (Special Agricultural
Trust Fund)
FEGA              Fondo de Garantia y Asistencia Tecnica (Technical Assistance and Loan
Guarantee Trust Fund)
FICART            Fideicomiso para Credito en Areas de Riego y de Temporal (Trust Fund for
Credit in Irrigated and Rainfed Areas)
FIRA              Fideicomisos Instituidos en Relaci6n con la Agricultural (Trust Funds for
Agriculture)
FIRCAVEN          Fideicomiso para la Restructuraci6n de la Cartera Vencida (Trust Fund to
Restructure Overdue Portfolios)
FONDO             Fondo de Garantia y Fomento para la Agricultura (Trust Fund for Crop,
Livestock, and Poultry Credit)
FOPESCA           Fondo de Pesca (Fisheries Trust Fund)
FSAL              Financial Sector Adjustment l oan (Loan 3085-ME)
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
GIRA              General Interest Rate Agreement
GOM               Government of Mexico
OP                Otros Productores (Other Producers)
PBI               Productor de Bajos Ingresos (Low-Income Producer)
PPAR              Project Performance Audit Report
PRONASOL          Programa Nacional de Solidaridad (National Solidarity Program)
SARH              Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidra6licos (Ministry of Agriculture)
SHCP              Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito P6blico (Ministry of Finance)
TORs              Terms of Reference
Note: Figures in 1991 currency were calculated using the average CPI for flow data and the year-end CPI for
stocks. Figures in US dollars were calculated using average exchange rates for flows and year-end exchange rates
for stocks. Figures in constant 1991 US dollars were calculated by converting local currency to IJS dollars, then
adjusting by the US CPI.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ofrice of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 21, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTTVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Mexico
Ninth Ag-ricultural Credit Project (Loan 2837-ME)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report - Mexico - Ninth
Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2837-ME)" prepared by the Agriculture and Natural Resources
Operations Division, Country Department II, Latin America and Canbbean Regional Office. Part
H was prepared by the Borrower.
The project outcome is considered satisfactory, because of significant improvements in
Government's agricultural sector and rural credit policies during the period and because Government
was able also to ensure the financial integrity of FIRA and FICART, the two second tier agricultural
lending agencies. The lending period coincided with the decline of inflation and the early effects of
the reforms of the new Mexican administration.
According to Part I, the impact of the subloans on farm productivity cannot be clearly
demonstrated, because the effects of credit cannot be disentangled from those of other inputs.
According to Part H, data from FIRA's monitoring and evaluation system nevertheless show that the
income and production objectives on participating farms were achieved. Both positions are correct.
The PCR "hesitates" to call the project sustainable, reflecting a lapse in the last year in the
dialogue over further reform and a follow-on project Nevertheless, the PCR does suggest that
institutional as well as policy improvements to date appear well entrenched. All in all, the Ninth
Project demonstrates that even a relatively small Bank financial contnrbution can be effective to help
implement important policy reform. Further, institutional development would be facilitated by a
continuing Bank-Borrower relationship in the sector.
The issues of Bank influence, project impact and sustainability warrant further investigation.
An audit is planned.
Attachment                             (hI
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onty In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
NINTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2837-ME)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface   . ................................................................                                                                     i
Evaluation  Summary  .................u......................................                                                                  iis
Part I  Project Review  frm   Bank's Perspective  ...................................                                                           1
1.  Project Identity                         ..................................                                                    1
2.   Background ...................................................                                                                1
3.   Project Objectives and Description ................................ .                                                        2
4.   Project Preparation and Design  ................................ .                                                            3
A.  Project Design  ..............................................                                                        3
B.  Key Issues Dicussed  During  Preparation   ..........................                                                 4
5.  Project Implementation                          .................................5 
A.  Key Issues During  Implementation   ..............................                                                    S
B. Variances Between Planned and Actual project Implementation  ....                                         ....         8
C.  Project Risks  ...............................................                                                        9
D.  Compliance with Loan  Covenants  ...............................                                                      9
E.  Project Costs, Financing, Disbursement and  Procurement  ....                                      .........          9
6.      Project Results               .......................                    .........................                       10
7.      Project Sustainability                        ............................................                               15
8.      Institutional Performance                     ...................                 .....................                  16
9.      Project Relationship   .........                 .......... ..                .......................                    16
10.    Project Documentation  and Data   ..............                              ..         ..................               17
11.    Lessons Leamed                   .......................                    ........................                      17
12.  Conclusions ...................................................    19
Annex A. Operating Performance of the Executing  Agencies ..................                                                     20
Annex B: Financial Data   .............................................                                                          23
Part Il   Project Review  from   Borrower's Perspective   ..............................                                                      30
Part ITh  Statistica Data   ....................................................                                                              43
Table  1:    Related  Bank Loans  ........................................                                                       43
Table 2:    Project Timetable/Project Schedule .............................                                                     44
Table 3:    Cumulative Estimated  and Actual Disbursements  ..................                                                   46
Table 4:    Total Project Costs  .........................................                                                       47
Table 5:    Project Costs by Source of Financing   ...........................                                                   49
Table 6:    Distribution  of Loan  Resources   ...............................                                                   51
Table 7:    Direct Benefits  ............................................                                                        52
Table 8:    Studies  ..................................................                                                          54
Table 9:    Status of Loan  Covenants  ....................................                                                      55
Table  10:   Use of Bank Resources   .....................................                                                       57
Map IBRD 19728R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may  not otherwise be disclosed  without World  Bank authorization.






MEXICO
NINTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2837-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
I.   This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project for which
Loan 2837-ME in the amount equivalent to US$400 million was approved on June 16, 1987. The
Guarantee, Loan and Project Agreements were signed on July 31, 1987. The loan was fully disbursed
on April 2, 1992, and closed on June 30, 1992, one year behind schedule.
2.   The PCR was jointly prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of Country Department II
of the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and
the Borrower (Part II).
3.   Preparation of this PCR was based on project files, data provided by the Borrower, and a PCR
preparation mission to Mexico in October 1992. Project papers reviewed include, inter alia, the Staff
Appraisal Report for the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project and the President's Report, both dated May
29, 1987, the Guarantee, Loan and Project Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence with the
Borrower and internal Bank memoranda on the complete project cycle, the Operations Evaluation
Department Report No. 8860, "Project Performance Audit Report," dated June 29, 1990, on the Bank's
six previous agricultural credit loans to Mexico, and on the PCR of the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
(Loan 3085-ME).






- iii -
MEXICO
NINTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2837-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.   Through the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project, which disbursed from September 17, 1987 through
April 2, 1992, IBRD (the Bank) provided US$400 million equivalent to the Government of Mexico (GOM)
to support the agricultural credit system. The project was administered by Banco de Mexico's (BANXICO)
Trust Funds for Agriculture (FIRA - US$300 million) and BANRURAL's Trust Fund for Credit in Irrigated
and Rainfed Areas (FICART - US$100 million)."
Objectives
2.    The project was approved at a time when the Bank's wider country assistance strategy was focussed
on providing large, relatively quick disbursing policy-oriented loans, both to help Mexico's foreign
exchange position, and to support crucial structural changes in the Mexican economy. In this context,
the project's objectives were to: (a) increase agricultural productivity and thus agricultural exports, real
farm income, and rural employment; (b) assist the Government to improve agricultural sector policies
through a further reduction of the interest rate subsidy; and (c) assist the participating financial
intermediaries to maintain their financial integrity. To achieve these objectives the project was to: (i)
finance investment and incremental short-term credit to farmers; (ii) provide training, technical assistance,
consultants' services, and demonstration centers, to support FIRA's and FICART'S productive support
programs; (iii) support an Agricultural Financial Subsector Study to identify further areas to improve the
rural financial system and increase resource mobilization; and (iv) ensure that budgeting provisions were
adequate to materially maintain the capital structure of FIRA and FICART.
Implementation Experience
3.    A critical variance between planned and actual project implementation was the timing of the
Agricultural Financial Subsector Study, which was delayed because of lack of agreement on the final TORs
and the role of the Bank with respect to the study, the need to carry out field surveys, and later, due to
lack of adequate analysis of the data collected during the field surveys. Remedial measures were agreed
upon by supervision missions that continued the dialogue on reforming the rural financial system. This
dialogue eventually led to the Government's decisions of closing down its agricultural insurance agency
(ANAGSA), restructuring the Government agricultural bank (BANRURAL), and piloting a new incentive
scheme for commercial bank lending to small farmers who lacked access to the formal credit system.
(See para. 34 and paras. 57-59.)
4.    A second variance was that the bulk of the Loan, for the credit component, disbursed much quicker
than expected. Disbursements were not tied to continuing policy reforms, and, in particular, to the
implementation of the recommendations of the Agricultural Financial Subsector Study. Consequently,
the unintended fast disbursements may have reduced the influence the project might have had over the
pace of continuing reforms. (See paras. 35 and 43.)
5.    One factor that positively affected implementation was the sharp decline in the rate of inflation that
has occurred since 1988. The project had been appraised and negotiated at a time when inflation was
rampant, reaching 159 percent in 1987.  In 1988, however, inflation subsided to 52 percent, and
continued declining sharply thereafter. (See para. 37.)
!'    Gos dissolved FICART as of January 1. 1993.



- iv -
6.    Compliance with Loan Covenants. GOM generally complied with loan covenants, except for not
ensuring that participating banks' financing contributions were fully in line with the two Project
Agreements. Beneficiary participation, however, was above the minimum required by the BANXICO/FIRA
Project Agreement, and FICART partially assumed BANRURAL's financing responsibility. In addition, there
was delayed compliance with the General Interest Rate Agreement (GIRA) and the execution of the
Agricultural Financial Subsector Study. GOM's compliance with the GIRA was eventually satisfactory,
although initially it was consistently behind schedule. The Bank had to grant two exceptions, and did not
disburse against subloans granted during January-March 1988. GOM has been in compliance with GIRA
since then. GOM eventually complied with carrying out the Agricultural Financial Subsector Study;
however, because of several delays caused by disagreements with the Bank as to the scope and analysis
of the data obtained, the study could not be finalized until August 1990, two and a half years behind
schedule. (See paras. 40-41).
7.    Project Costs, Financing and Disbursements. The total cost of the project at completion has
been estimated at US$920.0 million, 8 percent below the appraised cost. The Bank loan financed 44
percent of total project costs, compared to 40 percent estimated at appraisal. Two years after Loan
signing, 93 percent of Loan funds had been disbursed. An extension of the closing date was necessary,
however, due to delays in the construction of the FIRA headquarters building. The Loan was fully
disbursed on April 2, 1992, and closed on June 30, 1992. (See paras. 42-43.)
Results
8.    Project Objective: Increase agricultural productivity and thus agricultural exports, real farm
income, and rural employment. The overall numerical targets for beneficiaries and job creation appear
to have been exceeded, and the FIRA productivity support component was carried out. FICART did not
carry out the subcomponent with project funding. However, achievement of the project's objectives with
respect to agricultural production and agricultural exports cannot be clearly demonstrated and will depend
largely on continuing rural credit reforms to stimulate future agricultural investment. (See paras. 45-53.)
9.    Project Objective: Assist the Government to improve agricultural sector policies through a
further reduction of the interest rate subsidy. The project, through GIRA, was successful in assisting the
Government to reduce interest rate subsidies to agriculture, although a major factor contributing to the
decrease in these subsidies has been GOM's success in controlling inflation. There were also significant
improvements in GOM's agricultural sector and rural credit policies during the project period. At the end
of the project, however, the Government remains committed to the selective use of agricultural credit
subsidies and controlled interest rates as an element of social policy, the timing and extent of any further
rural credit reforms appear uncertain, and BANRURAL remains financially unviable. (See paras. 54-60.)
10.  Project Objective: Assist the participating financial intermediaries to maintain their financial
integrity through provision for direct and transparent transfers from the Government to cover
remaining interest subsidies; improved financial management; and institutional development. The
project has accomplished the objective of ensuring the financial integrity of both FIRA and FICART as
measured by maintaining equity in real terms at their January 1, 1986 levels. However, in retrospect,
these requirements appear somewhat arbitrary, if not excessive, and may have benefited from more ex-
ante analysis and discussion with GOM. Generally, GOM transfers have also been made more direct and
transparent, although some off-budget, below-cost funding still exists, such as BANXICO's rediscounts
of part of FIRA's portfolio, and FIRA is still not financially self-supporting. With respect to financial
management and institutional development, the FIRA staff training component appears worthwhile,
although it would have better if there had been a formal evaluation. FICART did not carry out the
subcomponent with project funding. (See paras. 61-71.)



v 
Sustainability
11.   The rural credit reforms implemented during the project period appear sustainable, and there
appears to be relatively little risk of backsliding. However, the Government's rural financial institutions
are not currently "sustainable," and there appears to be little prospect for them becoming so in the near
future. The momentum for further rural credit reforms appears stalled, and the expected follow-up
project is in abeyance, which was to address issues of financial viability of the agricultural credit system
and institutions. Consequently, one hesitates to assert that the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project is itself
"sustainable." (See para. 72.)
Institutional Perfornance
12.   Bank. During preparation and appraisal, the main question for the Bank was "how much and how
fast" credit subsidies should be reduced to justify proceeding with the project.  After considerable
preparation delays caused by disagreements over the content and timing of policy reforms to be supported
by the project, processing of the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project was finalized when the Bank relaxed
somewhat previous positions regarding the extent and timing of the policy reforms to be supported by
the project. This was due partly to the wider country assistance strategy then in effect of emphasizing
relatively large, quick-disbursing projects to support structural changes in the Mexican economy, as well
as helping Mexico's foreign exchange position. In this context, although some of the specific objectives
of the project were not fully met, the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project, like other large, quick-disbursing,
policy based loans, can be considered part of a quite successful wider country assistance strategy. In
addition, the simple existence of the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project provided a good vehicle to discuss
with GOM significant reforms that did take place during the project period. Consequently, it is difficult
to conclude that the Bank made the wrong decision to proceed with the project in 1987.  Project
supervision was generally adequate. (See paras. 73-75.)
13.  Borrower. The Borrower's performance was good with regard to the reduction of interest rate
subsidies to agriculture. Moreover, the Borrower ultimately implemented a series of reforms in the rural
credit subsector that went beyond the recommendations of the Agricultural Financial Subsector Study.
Possible criticisms, however, may include (a) failure to take prompt action regarding delayed construction
of the FIRA headquarters building; (b) inadequate monitoring and evaluation of the productive support
component; and (c) unwillingness to provide the Bank the data collected during the second phase of the
Agricultural Financial Subsector Study. (See paras. 76-77.)
Findings and Lessons Learned (See paras. 83-89.)
14.   Measuring achievement of project objectives. In future operations, the Bank and the Borrower
should build into project design an effective system for monitoring performance indicators to measure the
achievement of project objectives through the linkage between project activities and general objectives
such as "increase agricultural productivity," or avoid claiming such broad, difficult to measure project
objectives in the first place.
15.   Policy reforms. As in other projects, when this project was appraised it was difficult to decide
on the degree of policy reform needed to justify proceeding with the project. In the case of this project,
the subject was complicated by the wider country assistance strategy at the time, which included
substantial resource transfer objectives to support policy reform. Even today, it is difficult to measure
whether the project was "successful." The lesson is that the Bank and the Borrower should be more
specific about the objectives of a project, which may well include resource transfer objectives, as well
as about what would be considered "successful" implementation, especially with respect to policy
reforms.



- vi -
16.  Agricultural credit policy reforns. A related lesson from this and Bank-assisted agricultural
credit projects in other countries is that, if the primary objective of a project is to reform the rural credit
system, then simply relying on studies to be carried out during the project may be an insufficient
instrument to encourage further reform, especially given the high degree of political sensitivity
agricultural credit has in many countries. Ideally, of course, all policy reforms would be made, or at
least agreed upon, prior to Loan approval. If this is not possible, then the lesson is to directly link
disbursements to the implementation of agreed action plans based on the recommendations of such
studies.
17.  In addition to the above general point, a number of lessons from the Mexico Ninth Agricultural
Credit Project are consistent with the Bank's experience with agricultural credit projects in other
countries:  (a) financial intermediaries at each link of the chain should pay the full cost of funds,
including administrative costs, to avoid distortions and overburdening government resources; (b)
agricultural insurance and credit guarantee programs should be actuarially sound; (c) government
institutions should be staffed and managed along commercial lines; and (d) to the extent that subsidies
are desired to help the poor, they should be transparent and well targeted.
18.   Selection of financial performance indicators.  In retrospect, the Bank's concern with the
possible loss in value of FIRA's and FICART's equity appears overstated. The proportion of equity to risky
assets is very high for both institutions, even if measured conservatively. In future operations, the Bank
should focus on maintaining an adequate level of equity for a second-tier institution, as required by the
Mexican National Banking Commission, by adapting another standard such as the Basle Agreement as
it was done for first-tier DFIs in Operational Directive 8.30, or by agreeing on a system in line with the
"Convenio" mentioned in para. 24 of Part I, instead of simply requiring maintenance of existing equity
in real terms.
19.   Civil works construction. Project files do not record that there was a thorough analysis of the
proposed FIRA headquarters building during project preparation and appraisal, and Bank supervision
missions have concluded that the eventual specifications are excessive. Especially for large buildings such
as this one (originally estimated to cost US$11 million), calculations should be made during preparation
clearly showing the scope of the proposed investment, and conceptual designs and bidding conditions
should be agreed to during appraisal.  Without proper information, analysis and justification, such
proposed investments should not be accepted.
20.   Contractors. Approval of contracts which include disbursement for advances to contractors run
the risk of having these disbursements tied up in litigation if the contractor fails to perform. Performance
bonds, especially in Mexico, do not pay upon notification of contractor default. They are only effective
after legal settlement, which can be delayed for years. In the future, in countries like Mexico, in which
performance bonds may not be executed easily, the Bank and the Borrower should put more emphasis
on analyzing the financial condition and other qualifications of bidders during bid evaluation.



MEXICO
NINTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2837-ME)
DRAFT PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name:    Ninth Agricultural Credit Project
Loan No.:        Loan 2837-ME
RVP Unit:        Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country:         Mexico
Sector:          Agriculture
Subsector:       Agricultural Credit
2. BACKGROUND
1.      Macroeconomic setting. The years prior to the approval of the Ninth Agricultural Credit
Project in 1987 were exceptionally difficult for the Mexican economy. The 1980s began with rising
world interest rates and falling oil prices, which resulted in severe fiscal and balance of payments deficits
and led Mexico to suspend interest payments on its external debt in 1982. This financial and economic
crisis prompted the real depreciation of the peso in 1982 and 1983 and initiated an inflationary spiral, as
inflation rates rose from 29 percent in 1981 to 159 percent in 1987. The Government responded with
strong fiscal and monetary adjustment; the fiscal deficit dropped sharply from 7.6 percent of GDP before
the 1982 crisis to an estimated 5.8 percent surplus of GDP in 1988. However, the adjustment program
was undermined by the collapse of international oil prices in 1986 and the ensuing currency devaluations.
As a result of the restrictive fiscal policy and the unfavorable international environment, real economic
growth stagnated between 1982 and 1987 and real wages fell by more than 40 percent.  This
macroeconomic context was relevant to the preparation of the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project, because
the Bank's country assistance strategy at the time was heavily focussed on financing large, relatively
quick-disbursing, policy-oriented projects, both to help Mexico's foreign exchange position and to support
structural changes in the Mexican economy.
2.      The agriculture sector. The agricultural sector accounts for about 9 percent of GDP and
contributes about 9 and 13 percent of the country's total and non-oil exports, respectively. During the
1980s, the sector's growth rate was 0.4 percent compared to 1 percent for overall GDP, reflecting the
unfavorable macroeconomic environment, low international prices, and poor agricultural policies. Since
1985, the sector is being transformed to have a greater reliance on market forces, although farm
production has not yet shown a strong response to the reforms. Bank support for this adjustment process
has included the First Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 2918-ME, approved in February 1988)
and the Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 3357, approved in June 1991).
3.      Directed agricultural credit at preferential rates has been key to the Government's strategy to
increase agricultural output and the living standards of the rural population. Due to the economic crisis



-2-
of the early 1980s and budgetary constraints, outstanding agricultural credit dropped consistently in real
terms, from 48 percent of agricultural GDP in 1980 to 22 percent in 1987.
4.      Rural finance has been characterized by a distorted incentive structure for both borrowers and
lenders. Government institutions have crowded out private lenders. Mobilization of rural savings has
been slow. The Governrment's agricultural credit bank (BANRURAL) had little incentive to attract deposits
to lend to the rural sector because of the demonstrated security of receiving Government transfers.
Moreover, Governrment policy discouraged commercial bank lending to agriculture, particularly to small
farmers. BANRURAL's privileged access to funding and relaxed collection practices--a large proportion
of its loans went uncollected, with the resultant financial gap being covered with government transfers--
and controls on borrowing and lending rates discouraged commercial banks from mobilizing resources
from, and lending to, agriculture and creating a commercially sound rural banking infrastructure.
Compulsory insurance of BANRURAL's loans by the government-owned agricultural insurance company
(ANAGSA) encouraged BANRURAL's already loose loan recovery policy, and as it did farmers to default
on loans.
5.      Mexico's rural financial system has never been, and still is not, self-financing. Subsidized
interest rates on loans to agricultural producers, sometimes negative in real terms, the lack of borrowers'
credit discipline, and the operating inefficiencies of BANRURAL and ANAGSA have had a high cost to the
treasury. It has been estimated that during the 1980s, Government transfers to the agricultural credit
system have exceeded USS28 billion.
3. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
6.      Through the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project, which disbursed from September 17, 1987
through April 2, 1992, IBRD (the Bank) provided US$400 million equivalent to the Government of
Mexico (GOM) to support the agricultural credit system. The project was administered by Banco de
Mexico's Trust Funds for Agriculture (FIRA - US$300 million) and BANRURAL's Trust Fund for Credit
in Irrigated and Rainfed Areas (FICART - US$100 million)."
7.      The objectives of the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project were to: "(a) increase agricultural
productivity and thus agricultural exports, real farm income, and rural employment; (b) assist the
Government to improve agricultural sector policies through a further reduction of the interest rate
subsidy; and (c) assist the participating financial intermediaries to maintain their financial integrity
through: provisions for direct and transparent transfers from the Government to cover remaining interest
subsidies, improved financial management, and institutional development." (See Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR), para. 3.02.)
8.      To achieve these objectives the project was to: (a) finance investment and incremental short-
term credit to farmers for crops, livestock, agroindustries and other activities (e.g., aquaculture and
horticulture); (b) provide training, technical assistance and consultant services, as well as civil works for
the construction of demonstration centers, to support FIRA's and FICART's productive support programs;
(c) support an Agricultural Financial Subsector Study to identify further areas to improve the rural
financial system and increase resource mobilization; and (d) ensure that budgeting provisions were
adequate to materially maintain the capital structure of FIRA and FICART.  An additional project
component not explicitly stated in the SAR, although included in the Loan Agreement, was the
construction of a headquarters building for FIRA.
pi      GOM dissolved FICART as of January 1, 1993.



9.       Prior to this Loan, the Bank had made eight similar agricultural credit loans and an "interim"''
agricultural credit loan to Mexico, totalling US$1.4 billion equivalent, all administered by FIRA.3' The
project under review was the first Bank Loan in which BANRURAL participated directly through
rediscounts with FICART. Until recently, the Bank had been considering a new credit operation to support
GOM's policy reforms in the rural financial subsector, but processing is in abeyance due to lack of
agreement between GOM and the Bank on the extent and pace of future rural credit reforms.
4. PROJECT PREPARATION AN]) DESIGN
A. Project Design
10.      Project genesis. Preparation of the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project started early in 1985, as
a follow-up to the Eighth Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2454-ME, approved in June 1984). As noted
above, during this period Mexico was suffering from stagnation in both the total economy and the
agricultural sector, inadequate support for agricultural credit by the nationalized banks, and severe
operating problems in BANRURAL. This project was prepared as a part of a larger package of policy
reforms and activities4' designed to assist Mexico's wider economic restructuring, and was thus linked
to the 1986-87 Commercial Bank Financing Package for Mexico.
11.      Project design. Since the Fifth Agricultural & Livestock Credit Project (FIRA 5, Loan 1217-
ME, approved in March 1976), the Bank had been unsuccessfully trying to move towards a "sector
approach" for agricultural credit loans to Mexico5".  The Ninth Agricultural Credit Project also sought
a sectoral approach, including disbursement conditionality in addition to the General Interest Rate
Agreement (GIRA)6". During preparation, the Bank made substantial effort to obtain GOM's agreement
with respect to the reduction and future elimination of interest rate subsidies and the financial self-
sufficiency of the Government agricultural credit entities, especially, FIRA and FICART. However, after
lengthy discussions with GOM and as preparation advanced, the Bank relaxed these objectives, partly
because of the wider countr-y assistance strategy to rapidly increase resource transfers to Mexico in the
wake of the debt crisis. In particular, the Loan Agreement explicitly linked the Ninth Agricultural Credit
Project to the 1986-87 Commercial Bank Financing Package for Mexico, dated October 16, 1986.
12.      In the end, project design evolved very much along the same lines of previous operations, with
no up-front policy conditionality and no significant disbursement conditions, other than the GIRA. The
end result was a project which left many important issues to be addressed by an Agricultural Financial
Subsector Study that was to be carried out under the project, with its recommendations then implemented
during the latter part of the project period. The objectives of the study (see para. 25), moreover, were
much broader than the project's specific credit policy objectives, which only contemplated a further
2,       During preparation of this project, the Bank also approved an interim loan named "Agricultural Credit Loan"
(Loan 2610-ME, also known as FIRA 8A) for US$180 million, processed between March and July 1985.
"1       See Project Performance Audit Report No. 8860, IBRD, Operations Evaluation Department, June 29, 1990.
''       Such as an agricultural sector review, which led to the first Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 2918-
ME, approved in February 1988) and a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 3085-ME, approved in June 1989).
1/       See paras. 18, 19, 26 and 33, Project Performance Audit Report No. 8860, IEBRD, Operations Evaluation
Department, June 29, 1990.
Y        The GIRA is an umbrella interest rate agreement, signed in 1984 by the Government of Mexico and the Bank,
that covers aU credit operations financed by the Bank in Mexico. Under this agreement, the adjustment of the overall level
of controlled interest rates was tied to the Average Cost of Funds (cPP) until 1989, and has been tied to the interest rate on
the 28-day short-term Government paper (CETES) since 1990.



- 4 -
reduction of the interest rate subsidy, and transparent transfers to the two executing agencies.
Disbursements, however, were not linked either to satisfactory completion of the study, or to the
implementation of its recommendations. In retrospect, the project could have benefitted from additional
preparation, during which the Bank could have ensured that there was undivided agreement between the
Government and the Bank as to project objectives and adequate instruments to achieve those objectives.
13.      New project features. Compared to previous projects in the subsector, this project included
two new features: (a) the direct participation of FICART/BANRURAL, and (b) a study of the rural financial
subsector to identify, inter alia, the cost of financial intermediation and subsidies to the agricultural
sector. It was expected that FICART would benefit from participating in the project by becoming
financially and operationally more efficient, and would positively influence BANRURAL. The project
provided for training and technical assistance of FICART's staff, but very little attention was paid to
developing a plan of action to ensure the institutional strengthening of the institution, and thereby, its
expected positive influence on BANRURAL.
14.     Draft terms of reference (TORs) for the Agricultural Financial Subsector Study were agreed
during negotiations.  The study, then to be financed by GOM, was expected to be finalized and its
recommendations implemented by March 1988 (see paras. 25-28 below).
15.     Roles and responsibilities. The roles and responsibility of the institutions involved were clear,
except for the role that the Bank was supposed to play in the Agricultural Financial Subsector Study. The
legal provision for this study (Loan Agreement Section 3.02) did not require the Government to submit
a copy of the entire report, but only to "exchange views with the Bank in respect to the conclusions and
recommendations of the study."
B. Key Issues Discussed During Preparation
16.      Credit policies. During project preparation and appraisal, the Bank persistently sought GOM
agreement to further reduce and ultimately eliminate interest rate subsidies for agricultural credit.
Although the Government recognized that credit subsidies were not a cost effective instrument for either
poverty alleviation or increasing agricultural growth, it maintained that they were essential for social
policy in Mexico. GOM agreed, however, to revise the GrRA interest rate to further close the gap between
interest rates to low-income producers (PBls)" and the reference rate. The GLRA, which had been used
in the two previous agricultural credit operations, was considered an effective instrument for overall
subsidy reduction. Although the amount of this Loan represented a small proportion of the lending
program of FIRA and FICART,8' the Bank, through GIRA, was able to bring agricultural interest rates for
PBls closer to the reference rate (cPP or CETES), from 70 percent of the reference rate in 1987 to 95-97
percent in 1989, the level prevailing today.
17.     GOM  further agreed to examine other alternatives for the delivery of subsidies under the
Agricultural Financial Subsector Study supported by the project, and that this study would also identify
the true cost of intermediation of financial intermediaries, to adjust existing intermediation margins
accordingly. Moreover, the GOM agreed to budget adequate funds to avoid any further decapitalization
of F'RA and FICART.
18.     BANRURAL's participation. It was not until this project that the Bank agreed to BANRuRAL'S
direct participation--through its trust fund, FICART. BANRURAL's earlier participation had been through
discounts with FIRA, which the Bank approved during implementation of FIRA 5 because it (a) "wanted
71       Low-income producers (PBms) are those producers with net family income (from all sources) below 1,000 times
the minimum regional daily wage. The PBI rate was the only interest rate that remained below the Cpp.
F        About 6 percent of the appraisal estimate of FIRA/FICART five-year discount program.



-5-
to turn BANRURAL into a sound development institution, and (b) "it also needed BANRURAL to get the
PBI part of Loan 1217-ME disbursed".9' Ever since, and despite strong evidence of BANRURAL's weak
financial position, the Bank has accepted BANRURAL's indirect participation in all subsequent agricultural
credit projects. Furthermore, during preparation of the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project, it was decided
that BANRURAL could participate directly, through FICART, provided that the Government agreed to
undertake a study of the agricultural financial subsector, and BANRURAL's portfolio arrears did not exceed
15 percent.
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Key Issues during Implementation
(1)      Credit Component
19.      Interest rates. At the start of the project, GOM was consistently behind schedule in conforming
to the level of agricultural interest rates agreed upon under the GIRA. The Bank had to grant two
exceptions in a six-month period. A first exception was made in early 1988 to accommodate subloans
made between November 1 and December 31, 1987, in the expectation that the issue would be resolved
soon. Subsequently, the Government failed to comply with GIRA requirements which called for an
increase of on-lending rates to PBls to at least 85 percent of CPP by January 1, 1988. Disbursements
under the Loan were temporarily halted, and the Bank did not disburse against subloans granted during
January-March 1988. A second exception was made in August 1988 for subloans granted during April-
July 1988, despite non-compliance with the level of interest rates and the use of higher intermediation
margins. The Bank agreed to this additional exception provided that GtRA was amended to increase
interest rates to PBIs to at least 95 percent of CPP starting in August 1988. In March 1991, the GOM also
increased by one point, to CETES + 2, the interest rate applicable to OPs engaged in the production of
basic products. Because of the rapid decline in inflation during 1988, the GIRA amendment also provided
for monthly adjustments of the interest rates, instead of semiannual.
20.      Intermediation margins. During implementation of this project, the Government proposed an
increase in the intermediation margins of commercial banks to 12.5 percentage points for PBls and oPs '°'
of basic products, and 8.5 for other oPs, from 10 and 7 percent of cpp, respectively. As mentioned
earlier, the Agricultural Financial Subsector Study was supposed to identify the true costs of financial
intermediation of commercial banks, but the report on the first phase of the study did not include an
analysis of the level of existing margins relative to the actual costs incurred. Eventually, the Bank and
GOM accepted an actual decrease in margins, which were brought down to their current level of 6 and
5 percentage points as of April 1, 1989.1"'
21       See paras. 46 and 48, Project Performance Audit Report No. 8860, IBRD, Operations Evaluation Department,
June 29, 1990.
10!      Other producers (ops) are those producers with net family income above 1,000 times the minimum regional daily
wage. ops are divided in two classes. The first class is comprised by farmers engaged in the production of basic products
which are: (a) Agriculture: maize, wheat, beans, rice, sorghum, soybean, cartamo, sesame, sunflower, and copra; (b)
Livestock: milk, eggs, meat, chicken, and other poultry; (c) Agroindustries: processed products derived from the above
agriculture and livestock products and/or inputs required for their production.  The second class comprises all other
producers.  FIRA supports with better credit terms subloans to oPs of basic products than to producers in the second
category.
_if      Intermediation margins were initially expressed as percentages of the applicable interest rates, but were changed
to spreads during project implementation.



-6 -
21.     Definition of PBI.  Compliance with the definition of PBI was of concern during project
implementation. The SHCP had issued in 1987 instructions stipulating that all ejidatarios" be treated
as PBls and that their minimum contribution toward an investment should be 5 percent. However, the
Project Agreements stipulated a minimum contribution of 10 percent and included a definition of PBI
based on income levels rather than on whether a farmer was an ejidatario. An agreement was reached
with a Bank supervision mission during October 1987 to submit disbursement applications with a
certification that the subloans presented for disbursement complied with the sublending covenants of the
Loan Agreement, together with information on rediscounting percentages and interest rates charged to
final subborrowers. Later supervision missions identified a number of subloans that had already been
submitted for disbursement under the PBI category, and the Bank requested FIRA to submit revised
withdrawal applications. However, subsequent supervision discussions concentrated on the need for the
Government to define the PBI category for the overall rural financial sector according to income instead
of class of farmer, and not on resubmitting disbursement applications.
22.     The Government also sought to change the definition of PBls to all farmers earning less than
1,500 times the regional minimum daily wage, adducing that with the deterioration of the real wage and
the divergent rise in input and output prices, the original 1,000 multiple left out a considerable number
of poor farmers who deserved to qualify for preferential credit. However, the Bank reviewed income
and census data, concluded that 80 percent of the rural population still fell below the 1,000 multiple, and
did not accept the Government's request.
23.     Tasa mezcla. During project implementation, FIRA introduced a new mechanism for short-term
credit to OPs, under which commercial banks could choose to finance a larger proportion of subloans
rediscounted with FIRA than the required 20 percent of cofinancing. In exchange, commercial banks were
allowed to set the interest rate on that portion of the subloan financed with their additional contribution.
In other words, while FIRA funds and the stipulated contribution of 20 percent of the banks' own funds
continued to be lent at the Government preferential rates, additional bank financing beyond the required
20 percent could be lent at free rates. This measure constituted an important step toward the future
liberalization of interest rates since the combination of interest rates charged for this type of loans, known
as the tasa mezcla, tends to approximate market rates. This system is still in use.
24.     Agreement for on-lending development funds. In 1989, the Government signed the Convenio
de Derivaci6n de Fondos, an agreement under which all development funds are supposed to be on-lent
to the trust funds, such as FIRA and FICART, at the marginal cost of funds to the Goverment, i.e. CETES.
However, controlled on-lending rates and spreads to intermediaries may prevent the trust funds from
recovering their financial intermediation costs. Therefore, the Government makes specific budgetary
provisions to the trust funds to compensate for the resulting losses. While the objectives of the Convenio
to lend money to the trust funds at cost are not fully met, this system does have the virtue of making
transaction cost subsidies more transparent. The new system was not applied to this project because at
the time the agreement was signed the Loan was 92 percent disbursed.
25.     Agricultural Financial Subsector Study. Through the Agricultural Financial Subsector Study
the project sought to develop and implement recommendations to reduce credit and crop insurance
subsidies, improve the efficiency of the rural financial systems, and increase domestic resource
mobilization.  More specifically, the objectives of the study included "identifying problem  areas,
clarifying policy issues and formulating specific recommendations for near-term actions." The main task
of the study was to provide: (a) a descriptive overview of agricultural sector financing; (b) a functional
analysis of the agricultural credit system; (c) a projection and in-depth review of FIRA and FICART's credit
programs; and (d) a perfornance appraisal of the agricultural sector financial institutions.
L2'     Ejidatarios are residents of ejidos, a form of communal farm in Mexico.



26.     During a supervision mission in November 1987, the Bank reviewed progress on the study and
concluded that the preparation of the report was well advanced and that it could be submitted to the Bank
on schedule (January 1, 1988). There were, however, some points that needed further work, such as on
informal rural financing, loan repayment performance, transaction costs, and the impact of credit and
credit subsidies. After protracted negotiations, SHCP agreed to undertake field work at the farmer and
financial intermediary level to complement the existing data, and agreed to submit a copy of the first
phase of the study, together with the methodology and questionnaires for field investigations, in January
1988. SHCP also recognized the need to hire consultants and requested financing under the Loan.
27.     During the first months of 1988, the Bank made several attempts to obtain a copy of the first
phase of the study. However, it was not until June that it was able to obtain a copy of the complete
report, because GOM officials maintained that their Government was only obligated "to exchange views
with the Bank" on the study, and consequently, refused to submit the whole report. The report contained
a wide range of information but included very little analysis, and the core areas of the study--such as
definition and quantification of financial subsidies, subloan recoveries, transaction costs, and
intermediation margins--were covered insufficiently. The Bank made it clear that no new Bank-assisted
projects in rural finance could be considered until a thorough analysis of the rural financial subsector was
concluded, and that it would therefore expect that these issues would be properly covered during the
second phase of the study.
28.     After lengthy negotiations, the TORs for the field work were finalized early in 1989, and a
consulting firm was hired in February 1989. A copy of the consultants' report was handed over to the
January 1990 pre-appraisal mission of the Rural Financial Subsector Project (the proposed successor of
the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project, processing of which is now in abeyance). The mission reviewed
the report, and concluded that, while a large amount of data had been gathered through the field surveys,
the report lacked adequate analysis, and was considered of limited use. The Bank therefore requested
GOM to have the consultants expand their analysis, especially on the questions relating to financial
behavior of producers, the connections between financial behavior and farm characteristics, and informal
lenders. The Bank also requested SHCP to provide the raw data collected during the field surveys, so it
could make its own analysis, but the Government declined the request. Instead, a revised version of the
consultants' report was forwarded to the Bank in July 1990. Once again, the Bank found that the scope
of the analysis was limited, but did not insist on further analysis because additional data collection and
analysis had been already carried out in the context of preparation of the then proposed Rural Financial
Subsector Project.
(2) Construction of FIRA Headquarters Building
29.     The project included financing for a headquarters building for FIRA, to be constructed in a
farming region of Mexico. This component was only added to the project at negotiations and no
economic or financial justification appears in the Staff Appraisal Report. The building is now under
construction in Morelia, the capital of the state of Michoacan. The actual site of the construction is 8
kilometers from the center of the city on 28 hectares of wooded land which was ceded to FIRA by the
Secretariat of Agriculture of the State of Michoacan.  There are no short or long range problems
envisaged to indicate that the site is unsuitable for its purpose.
30.     The original cost estimate was US$11 million. The Bank considered the floor area excessive
(allowing for sufficient space for moderate staff expansion), but FIRA argued that the space would be
needed for future expansion. Final building specifications reflect the Bank's request to cut FIRA's original
investment budget estimate for the building in half, to a maximum of US$6.0 million (the Bank allocation
was US$3.0 million with a disbursement of 50 percent of total construction costs).
31.     A  15-month construction contract for Mex$11,850 (about US$4 million) was signed on
November 30, 1989, following international competitive bidding procedures and Bank review. Although



-8 -
the contractor had been given 20 percent of the contract price to purchase materials for the project, it
failed to furnish materials and adequate workmanship, and construction was delayed. In mid 1990, FIRA
gave the contractor an extension of the completion date to May 15, 1991, but in May 1991, FIRA
rescinded this contract because the contractor failed to fulfill the terms of their reprogrammed schedule.
At the time of rescission, the Bank had already reimbursed FIRA about US$1.4 million of the original
US$3.0 provided for in the Loan Agreement. Legal settlement is still pending after more than one year.
Claims by FIRA and counter claims by the contractor continue to be made. Litigation is likely to continue
for at least another year.
32.     The completion of the building was rebid, and a new contract signed on January 9, 1992, for
Mex$11,850 million (about US$4 million) and 39 weeks construction time. Much like the first contract
for construction, the second contractor has failed to provide adequate materials to the job site in a timely
manner. The second contractor has now been dismissed and FIRA is considering alternatives to complete
the building. Although no cost estimates have been made, it is likely that additional work needed to
complete the headquarters complex3' will cost between US$3.0 and 4.0 million, raising the total cost
of the building to over US$10 million.
33.     The Bank did not make any additional reimbursements to FIRA after disbursing US$1.4 million
for the first contract. Although the Loan closing date was extended by 12 months to allow the new
contractor to complete the construction of the building (see para. 43), further delays prompted FlRA to
use the remaining US$1.6 million to finance agricultural credit.
B. Variances between Planned and Actual Project Implementation
34.     Critical variances. There were two critical variances between planned and actual project
implementation. One variance was the timing of the Agricultural Financial Subsector Study, which was
delayed because of lack of agreement on the final TORs and the role of the Bank with respect to the study,
the need to carry out field surveys, and later, due to lack of adequate analysis of the data collected during
the field surveys. These delays could have been avoided with further preparatory work during appraisal
to reach full agreement on the objectives of the study, and thereby on final TORs for a comprehensive
diagnostic study of the rural financial subsector. Remedial measures were taken by supervision missions
that continued the dialogue on reforming the rural financial system (see paras. 57 through 59).
35.     The other critical variance was that the bulk of the Loan, for the credit component, disbursed
much faster than expected (see para. 43). For example, 93 percent of the Loan was disbursed by June
1989, compared to the Staff Appraisal Report estimate of 62 percent. Since the Loan represented only
6 percent of the combined FIRA/FICART projected five-year discount program, the executing agencies
always had a sufficient amount of qualifying subloans to present for disbursement against the Bank Loan.
36.      Unintended fast disbursements had been identified as a problem in previous agricultural credit
projects to Mexico. During the initial steps of project preparation, the Bank sought to pace disbursements
in this project to allow the Bank adequate time to perform its role of development institution, but the idea
was dropped as preparation advanced.  In retrospect, disbursements should have been tied, at least
partially, to the implementation of the recommendations of the Agricultural Financial Subsector Study,
both to help ensure a better quality study and to support implementation of its recommendations.
37.     Other factors that affected  implementation.   One  factor that positively  affected
implementation was the sharp decline in the rate of inflation that has occurred since 1988. The project
had been appraised and negotiated at a time when inflation was rampant, reaching 159 percent in 1987.
In 1988, however, as a result of successful GOM anti-inflation policies, inflation subsided to 52 percent,
L3/     Interior partitions, roads, parking, water supply, sewerage, and landscaping were not included in either contract.



- 9 -
and continued declining sharply thereafter. FIRA/FICART capital did not erode as it did during the
implementation of the Eighth Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2454-ME), and the subsequent interim
Agricultural Credit Loan (Loan 2610-ME).
C. Project Risks
38.     Evaluation of projects risks at the time of appraisal was accurate, except for failing to identify
the risk that the objectives of the study of "identifying problem areas, clarifying policy issues and
formulating specific recommendations for near-term actions" (see SAR, Annex 8, para. 1), to be
implemented on a timetable acceptable to the Bank, could not be attained during the project period.
D. Compliance with Loan Covenants
39.     GOM generally complied with Loan covenants (see Table 9, Part III), except for not ensuring
that participating banks' financing contributions were in line with the respective Project Agreements.
Commercial banks' participation (19 percent) fell short of the required 20 percent participation in
subloans to oPs. However, this class of beneficiaries participated with 26 percent of their subproject costs
compared to a minimum 20 percent participation required by the Loan Agreement (see Part III, table 5,
p. 2). BANRURAL's participation was only 1 percent of the subloans discounted. However, since FICART
and BANRURAL were in effect the same institution, BANRURAL's low financing percentage indicates merely
that FICART discounted a larger proportion of its subloans than the expected 80-90 percent. In addition,
the following covenants were complied with only after protracted negotiations.
40.     General Interest Rate Agreement.  GOM's compliance with the GIRA was eventually
satisfactory, although initially it was consistently behind schedule, and the Bank had to grant two
exceptions in a six-month period between December 1987 and August 1988 (see para. 19).
41.     Agricultural Financial Subsector Study.  GOM eventually complied with conducting the
Agricultural Financial Subsector Study; however, because of several delays caused by disagreements with
the Bank as to the scope and analysis of the data obtained, the study could not be finalized until August
1990, two and a half years behind schedule (see paras. 25-28).
E. Project Costs, Financing, Disbursements and Procurement
42.     Project costs and financing. The cost of the project at completion has been estimated by FIRA
and FICART at US$920.0 million, 8 percent below the appraised cost (US$1,000 million). The actual cost
of the credit component was US$904.6 million, of which US$721.2 million was channelled by FIRA
through the commercial banking system, and US$183.4 million, through FICART/BANRURAL. Overall,
the Bank Loan financed 44 percent of total project costs, compared to 40 percent estimated at appraisal.
Bank financing for the credit component (US$394.2 million) and beneficiaries' contributions were
somewhat higher than expected (44 and 18 percent, respectively, compared to 40 and 14.4 percent).
Overall, FIRA/FICART and the participating banks' contribution to project financing was, however, lower
than planned (29 and 10 percent compared to 31 and 14 percent). (See Part III, Table 5, p. 1, and SAR,
para. 3.06). A breakdown of commercial banks' participation shows, however, that participation was
somewhat higher than required in the case of PBls (11 percent of subloans discounted costs compared to
10 percent) but slightly lower for oPs (19 percent compared to 20 percent). BANRURAL, however,
financed a meager 1 percent of the subloans discounted (with part of the shortfall financed by FICART),
while its borrowers' contributions fell short of the minimum 10 percent required by the respective Project
Agreement. (See Part III, Table 5, p. 2.) No action was taken on this during project implementation
due to a lack of timely monitoring.
43.     Disbursements. The project disbursed faster than expected, although disbursements were halted
during January-March 1988 because of non-compliance with the GIRA agreement (see para. 19). At



- 10 -
appraisal, it had been estimated that the Loan would disburse over four years. By June 1989, less than
two years after Loan signing, 93 percent of Loan funds had been disbursed, and by mid 1990, most of
the remaining funds had been committed. In 1991, however, the Borrower asked for an extension of the
closing date due to delays in the construction of the FIRA headquarters building. The Loan closing date
was thus extended from June 30, 1991 to June 30, 1992, but in view of continued delays in construction,
the Bank agreed to FIRA using the remaining funds for the credit component, although no formal
reallocation of funds was requested by the Government. The Loan was fully disbursed on April 2, 1992,
and closed on June 30, 1992.
44.     Procurement. The Borrower complied with stipulated procurement procedures, and submitted
for the Bank's prior review the TORs and contract of the consultants selected to do the field work for the
Agricultural Financial Subsector Study. The Borrower also submitted for the Bank's review subloan
applications which exceeded the US$800,000 threshold. The major procurement problem was the dispute
with the contractor for the FIRA headquarters building, described in para. 31 above. In retrospect,
although formal procurement procedures were complied with, more effort should have gone into
evaluating the financial and other qualifications of the bidders.
6. PROJECT RESULTS
Project  Objective:    Increase  agricultural productivity  and  thus
agricultural exports, realfarm income, and rural employment.
45.     Project benefits. The credit component of the project has benefitted an estimated 868,400
individuals and about 190,436 families, exceeding SAR targets of 550,000 individuals and 100,000
families. Moreover, it was expected that the project would help create 240,000 jobs. While FIRA
estimated that its part of the project helped create 172,398 jobs. FICART did not maintain statistics on job
creation, and was thus unable to provide this information. However, considering that actual FICART
beneficiaries included 127,746 families, it appears likely that the SAR job creation target was, in fact,
exceeded. FIRA and FICART have analyzed farm models representing actual performance by borrowers
during the project period (although no rates of return are available). These models show that some
farmers were able to achieve SAR production expectations, although only beef cattle ranching produced
higher than expected net benefits at full development.
46.     The difficulty of attributing any incremental benefits specifically to the project should be noted,
however, especially since the Bank Loan in fact only refinanced about 4 percent of FIRA's and FICART'S
annual lending programs, compared to an estimated 6 percent at appraisal.   Moreover, overall
agricultural production during the project period was stagnant. Real agricultural GDP for 1991 was 1
percent below that of 1987, and real agricultural exports had fallen 2.5 percent.
47.     On the other hand, to the extent that the project may have contributed to longer term reforms
of the rural financial system, the project's agricultural production impact may be higher than it is
currently possible to estimate.
48.     Productivity Support. The Bank Loan had also contemplated financing to expand FIRA's on-
going technical assistance programs, including the recruitment and training of additional technical
advisors. However, FIRA was able to carry out the technical assistance subcomponent with its own funds.
Although the Bank Loan did not finance this subcomponent, it should be noted that FIRA's technical
assistance programs have been found to be useful and cost effective in this and previous Bank-supported
agricultural credit operations.



- 1 1 -
49.      The project supported nine FIRA Demonstration Centers by financing improved irrigation
systems, fencing, and the purchase of tractors, other agricultural equipment and computers for
management information systems. Although only a few vehicles were purchased because of GOM
restrictions on the number of vehicles that FIRA could acquire, FIRA covered the transportation needs of
demonstration centers staff with existing vehicles. Thus, there was no apparent negative impact for the
centers to carry out their operations.
50.      In addition to the Demonstration Centers, FIRA supported 412 on-farm Productive Demonstration
Units, i.e., demonstration farms. Under this program, FIRA paid 100 percent of technical assistance to
the demonstration farmers, demonstration costs such as transportation and lunches, and the cost of
dissemination of demonstration results. FIRA also paid for part of the actual field cultivation costs, on
a declining basis; the share of FIRA financing dropped from 80 percent in 1989 to 30 percent in 1993.
51.      FICART continued promoting its technical assistance program to farmers. However, FICART had
sufficient budgeted resources and did not require external funding for this purpose. Consequently, FICART
requested the Bank to reallocate the Loan funds to the credit component.
52.      Although no formal evaluation study has been made of the technical assistance subcomponent,
it seems reasonable to conclude that the FIRA demonstration farm subcomponents were of value. As noted
in para. 51, FICART did not participate in the productive support component, although some of the
originally expected activities may have been financed with its own funds.
53.      In sumnmary, although the overall numerical targets for beneficiaries and job creation
appear to have been exceeded, and that the FlEA productivity support component was carried out,
achievement of the project's objectives with respect to agricultural production and agricultural
exports cannot be clearly demonstrated and will depend largely on continuing rural credit reforms
to stimulate future agricultural investment.
Project Objective: Assist the Government to improve agricultural sector
policies through a further reduction of the interest rate subsidy.
54.      Interest rate subsidies. During project implementation, the Government took important steps
to reduce credit subsidies. First, with the financial sector reforms supported by the Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (FSAL, Loan 3805-ME, approved in June 1989), the Govermnent no longer controls
deposit rates, thereby encouraging resource mobilization. Second, after protracted negotiations with the
Bank, in August 1989 GOM reduced the subsidies in agricultural interest rates beyond GIRA's original
target of 85 percent of the reference rate, and altogether preferential rates to PBIs increased from 70
percent of CPP in 1987 to 95 and 97 percent for investment and working capital loans, respectively, the
levels prevailing since 1989. Third, and most important, the Govermnent controlled inflation, which
dropped from 159 percent in 1987 to 19 percent in 1991. As 'a result of the above, interest rates to
agriculture have been positive since 1988, and interest rate subsidies have declined. An estimate of
implicit interest rate subsidies to all agricultural borrowers, through FIRA and BANRURAL, shows a
significant decrease in subsidies with respect to the GDP (see Annex B, Table 8).'1'
'"1      This Bank estimates refers to producer subsidies through controlled interest rates only. Under the following
assumptions and methodology, subsidies would have decreased from about 2.7 percent of GDP in 1987 to 0.2 percent in
1991: the estimate measures interest subsidy as the differential between FIRA/BANRURAL actual interest income, and the
amount of interest income they would have earned had they charged 'market" interest rates. It was assumed that FIRA, as a
rediscount window, would charge at least CETES (i.e., GOM's cost of funds) plus an intermediation margin (assumed I
percentage point); BANRURAL, as a first-tier lending institution, would charge a minimum of CETES plus 6 percentage points
(the margin it currently receives when rediscounting with FIRA and FICART). Higher margins could have been chosen in



- 12 -
55.      Despite these overall positive changes, interest rates to agriculture remain controlled and below
market rates (e.g., the implicit interest rate of FIRA's portfolio was 64 percent in 1987 and 15 percent in
1991, compared to GOM's cost of funds (the average 28-day CETES rates) of 95 and 23 percent,
respectively), and still trigger are the main cause of large flows of Government transfers to support FIRA,
FICART and BANRURAL (see paras. 62-63, 66, 68, and Annex B, Table 7)."' Moreover, despite a
restructuring and other improvements, BANRURAL remains financially unviable (see Annex A).
56.      Although the objective of reducing interest rate subsidies was achieved, the end-project situation
is not fully satisfactory. Government commitment to further significant rural credit reforms, at least in
the immediate future remains unclear, as indicated by the suspension of preparation activities for the
proposed follow-up Rural Financial Subsector Project.
57.      Agricultural Financial Subsector Study. The Bank financed 100 percent of the consultant
costs for the Agricultural Financial Subsector Study (US$469,000, equivalent to about 63 percent of the
estimated cost of US$750,000). Moreover, a great deal of Bank staff and Bank-financed consultant time
was spent in the supervision of the study. Despite the fact that it sent frequent missions to review
progress, the Bank did not receive a satisfactory analysis of the data collected during the field surveys,
and found the information provided of limited use. Nevertheless, the Bank continued discussions on
reforming rural finance as part of the preparation of the study and of the proposed Rural Financial
Subsector Project, and was able to obtain enough information to prepare a thorough analysis of
BANRURAL and ANAGSA. It appears, however, that the Government found that the information arising
during the execution of the studies was useful, and helped provide the basis for the significant reforms
that have been introduced in the sector since 1990, including:
(a)   The real increase, if delayed, in controlled PBI interest rates prescribed by GIRA.
(b)   The adoption of a combination of interest rates for short-term loans to oPs, known as the
tasa mezcla, which tends to approximate the market rate.
(c)   A significant restructuring of BANRURAL, including large staff reductions and a partial
cleaning of its portfolio.
(d)   The closing of the problem-filled government agricultural insurance company, ANAGSA,
and the creation of an new commercially-oriented company, AGROASEMEX; and
(e)   The introduction of an incentive scheme to encourage commercial banks to lend more to
PBls.
(f)   The elimination of FICART and the use of FIRA as a single rediscount window  for
agricultural loans.
58.      Moreover, as mentioned earlier, GOM was able to control inflation and took significant measures
to reform the financial sector supported by FSAL among which the following are worth mentioning for
their actual or expected positive impact on the rural credit system:
both cases, especially in the case of BANRURAL. The intention here, however, was to establish a trend relative to GDP, and
not to quantify the costs incurred by the Government of subsidizing agricultural interest rates.
L5.'     It should be noted that Government transfers to agricultural financial institutions responded in part to these
subsidized interest rates, especially at times of high inflation, but also to other partly or wholly subsidized producer
programs (e.g., agricultural insurance, technical assistance and credit guarantees), and to the operating inefficiencies of
some subsector institutions.



- 13 -
(a)   The reprivatization of the commnercial banks; and
(b)   The liberalization of deposit rates to promote domestic resource mobilization.
59.      Therefore, it might be said that including the study in the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project did
have a significant positive impact on rural credit policies, if only because it provided a vehicle to discuss
Mexican agricultural credit reforms, even if the study itself was ultimately considered unsatisfactory.
60.      In summary, the project, through GIRA, was successful in assisting the Government to
reduce interest rate subsidies to agriculture, although a major factor contributing to the decrease
in these subsidies has been GOM's success in controlling inflation. There were also significant
improvements in GOM's agricultural sector and rural credit policies during the project period. At
the end of the project, however, the Government remains committed to the selected use of
agricultural credit subsidies and controlled interest rates as an element of social policy, the timing
and extent of any further rural credit reforms appear uncertain, and BANRURAL remains finanCially
unviable.
Project Objective: Assist the participating financial intermediaries to maintain their
financial integrity through provision for direct and transparent transfers from the
Government to cover remaining interest subsidies; improvedfinancial management; and
institutional development.
61.      FlRA's financial integrity and Government transfers. As required by the Loan Agreement,
the Government has provided adequate funds to FIRA to maintain its financial integrity. With the
exception of 1987, when FIRA lost about 5 percent of the value of its capital from its January 1986 level,
its equity has not decreased in real terms (Annex B, Table 1). Instead, it shows a 64 percent real
increase from January 1, 1986 through December 31, 1992. In fact, with the real appreciation of the
peso, the dollar value of FIRA's equity more than doubled during the period. Moreover, although not a
requirement of the project, a very conservative estimate shows that the ratio of equity to risky assets has
been in the range of 42 to 78 percent of the total outstanding portfolio, very far above the 8 percent
recommended for commercial banks under the Basle Agreement or the 10-20 percent recommended for
development finance institutions in the Bank's Operational Directive 8.30.I'
62.      The cost to the Treasury of avoiding the decapitalization of the institution, which would have
been caused by portfolio losses and inadequate debt service, has been enormous. In constant 1991 terms,
it is estimated that during January 1986-December 1991, Government budgeted transfers to FIRA, to
compensate for low-interest discounts and to operate its technical assistance and credit guarantee services,
amounted to approximately Mex$5,294 billion (US$1.34 billion), that is, 12 percent of GOM's total
transfers to the agricultural credit system (see Annex B, Table 6). Despite these GOM transfers, and net
income before operating subsidies of Mex$4,618 billion (US$1.14 billion) during 1986-91, FIRA's equity
at the end of 1991--although higher in real terms than on January 1, 1986--was only Mex$4,114 billion
(US$1.34 billion) (see Annex B, Table 2).
L61      There is no available standard of capital adequacy for second-tier financial institutions as there is for commercial
banks. Following the principles of the Baslc Agreement, the Bank's Operational Directive 8.30 (Annex A, para. 8) recommends
a capital adequacy ratio of 10 percent for well-managed development finance institutions (DFb) and 20 percent for those with
less than satisfactory performance. Although second-tier financial institutions have less risky assets than first-tier DFIs, for the
purpose of estimating the level of capital adequacy of FIRA and FICART, however, the entire outstanding portfolio of discounts
was considered as risky assets (100 percent risk weight) to recognize the risky nature of agricultural lending.



- 14 -
63.      As stated in the PCR of the FSAL, GOM lends to development banks at rates below its marginal
cost of funds (see FSAL PCR para. 36). In the case of FIRA, these off-budget subsidies via rediscounts
through BANXICO at rates well below CETES17' have cost the Government, in 1991 values, an additional
Mex$8,589 billion (US$2.2 billion)l" between 1986-91, raising the total cost of supporting the FIRA
system to Mex$13,884 (US$3.5 billion) during the same period (see Annex B, Table 3).
64.      The benefits of Governrnent support to the FIRA/commercial bank credit system, however,
accrued predominantly to the better-off farmers. FIRA's total discounts increased about 67 percent in real
terms from 1988-91, but the relative importance of PB1 discounts to total annual lending decreased from
about 50 percent in 1988 to 18 percent in 1991, as the agricultural sector remained depressed and
commercial banks lacked adequate incentives to lend to PBIs relative to oPs (see Annex A, para. 2).
65.      Because of GOM transfers, and a clientele with relatively good credit discipline, FIRA is a
financially sound institution. As discussed during preparation of the proposed Rural Financial Subsector
Project, to be self-sufficient, however, FIRA would need to discount subloans at a rate equal to its cost
of funds plus a spread to cover its costs of financial intermediation."W It would also need to pay for
rediscounts with Banxico a rate at least equal to the Government's cost of funds. Its loan guarantee
system would need to be restructured to: (a) charge premia according to the probability of loss of a given
event; (b) set limits on the risks covered by its guarantees to insurable climatic risks; and (c) pay
guarantee obligations to commercial banks on demand (see Annex A, paras. 3-5).  As to technical
assistance, this appears to be FIRA'S most effective mechanism to support increased agricultural production
through adoption of new technologies and improved agricultural practices. In view of 'the social and
economic gains of this investment, and the efficiency of FIRA'S technical assistance programs, it seems
justified that GOM continues to pay at least part of the costs of providing these services."'
66.      FICART's financial integrity and Government transfers. Despite a steady decline during 1986-
88 (Annex B, Table 4), FICART's equity recovered in the following years to a level above its January
1986 value. The ratio of equity to risky assets (considered here as the full outstanding portfolio) has
oscillated between 80 to 100 percent. However, all this has been at a substantial cost to the Government.
It is estimated that during January 1986-December 1991, Government transfers to FICART in the form of
capital contributions to equity, assumption of foreign debt, mostly to the Inter-American Development
Bank, and some smaller amounts to support FICART'S operating costs, amounted to approximately
Mex$1,343 billion (US$336 million) in 1991 terms (see Annex B, Table 6). Despite GOM transfers, and
net income before operating subsidies of Mex$1,883 billion (US$506 million) during 1986-91, FICART's
equity at the end of 1991--although slightly higher in real terms than on January 1, 1986--was only
Mex$1,597 billion (US$520 million). (See Annex B, Table 5.)
67.        FICART'S operating costs were very high for a rediscount window (about 4-5 cents per peso
in portfolio). Additionally, the overall cost of running FICART as a separate institution to discount only
BANRURAL'S loans turned increasingly unjustifiable: FICART lost about 35 cents per peso discounted of
each peso transferred by the GOM in 1991, although its relative importance in funding BANRURAL's
17      HBANXICO charges FLRA an interest rate equal to the weighted average interest rate on FaLA total portfolio less 3.5
percentage points.
Ls}      This Bank estimnate has been calculated as the gap between FIRA s actual interest expense and the interest expenses
FtRA would have incurred on its annual average debt with BANIYlcO had it pay cPP for BANxICO's funds from 1987-88, and CETEs
thereafter.
L9(      FIRA's operating costs oscillate around 3 percent of annual discounts. A breakdown of costs attributable solely to
FIRA's discount operations is not available, but it appears that a substantial part of operating costs are attributable to the
provision of support services to credit.
2L/      See para. 82, Project Performance Audit Report No. 8860.



-15 -
operations dropped 27 percent, in real terms, from its 1990 value. Recognizing these inefficiencies, GOM
closed FICART as of December 31, 1992, and transferred its assets to BANRURAL.
68.      Overall, during 1986-9 1, the cost to the Treasury of maintaining the FIRA and FICART/BANRURAL
credit systems (including the now defunct ANAGSA but excluding premia subsidies to the new
Government's agricultural insurance company, AGROASEMEX) has been enormous, estimated at about
Mex$43,249 billion (US$11.4 billion) in constant 1991 terms (see Annex B, Table 6).211
69.      Institutional development. The Project contemplated reinforcing ongoing training activities
by funding local and overseas graduate studies and state study tours. Foreign training for FIRA staff
consisted primarily of study tours, intensive English language courses, attendance at seminars,
conferences and trade shows. Local academic training of FIRA staff consisted of masters programs in
economics, administration and a variety of agricultural disciplines.  More specifically, the project
financed several degrees, courses and seminars for FIRA staff covering a wide variety of topics in the
technical and administrative fields, including 210 training activities in Mexico (2,745 man-courses) and
43 abroad (121 man-courses), 34 M.Sc. in Mexico and one in Spain. The project also financed 47
special training courses for 1,162 small farmers. Overall, expenditures on FlRA's training subcomponent
exceeded appraisal expectations. Implementation of this subcomponent is considered satisfactory, except
for the fact that FIRA has not made an evaluation of the impact of the academic training subcomponent
on FlRA's institutional development.
70.      FICART continued providing staff training but did not require external funding for this purpose
since it had sufficient budgeted resources and did not require external funding for this purpose.
Consequently, FICART requested the Bank to reallocate the Loan funds to the credit component.
71.      In summary, the project has accomplished the objective of ensuring the financial integrity
of both FiRA and FICART as measured by maintaining equity in real terms at their January 1, 1986
levels. However, in retrospect, these requirements appear somewhat arbitrary, if not excessive, and
may have benefitted from more ex-ante discussions with GOM. Generally, GOM transfers have also
been made more direct and transparent, although some off-budget, below-cost funding still exists,
such as BANXICO's rediscounts of part of ElRA's portfolio, and FIRA is still not financially self-
supporting."' With respect to financial management and institutional development, the FIRA staff
training component appears worthwhile, although it would have better if there had been a formal
evaluation. FICART did not carry out the subcomponent with project funding.
7. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
72.      The rural credit reforms implemented during the project period appear sustainable, and there
appears to be relatively little risk of backsliding. However, FIRA and FICART/BANRURAL are still not
financially self-supporting, and the momentum for further rural credit reforms, which were to have been
based on the implementation of the recommendations of the Agricultural Financial Subsector Study,
appears stalled, at least for the time being. In particular, BANRURAL remains very weak, and the expected
follow-up project, which was to address issues of financial viability of the agricultural credit system and
institutions, is in abeyance. In short, the Governrnent's rural financial institutions are not currently
"sustainable," and there appears to be little prospect for them  becoming so in the near future.
Consequently, one hesitates to assert that the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project is itself "sustainable."
21!      These figures are Bank estimates based on the audited financial statements and/or data provided directly by the
institutions involved. However, SHCP data records transfers during 1986-91 of only Mex$21,725 (in 1991 pesos), about half
the Bank estimate.
2 2,    FICART ceased to exist December 31, 1992 (see para. 67).



- 16 -
8. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
A. The Bank
73.     During preparation and appraisal, the main question for the Bank was "how much and how fast"
credit subsidies should be reduced to justify proceeding with the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project. This
question was complicated by the macroeconomic environment and the country assistance strategy then
prevailing, which emphasized large, relatively quick disbursing projects, both to support Mexico's foreign
exchange position and to structural changes in the Mexican economy. As discussed above, in the end
the Bank retreated somewhat from earlier positions taken during project preparation on the "how much
and how fast" question, and correspondence shows that wider country assistance strategy considerations
were important in making this decision.
74.     But, was this the wrong decision? The restructuring of the Mexican economy during the last
few years, and the resolution of the debt crisis, is considered to be exemplary. To a certain extent,
therefore, the Ninth Agricultural Credit project, like other large, quick-disbursing policy-based loans
during this period, can be considered part of a quite successful country assistance strategy. Moreover,
although the Agricultural Financial Subsector Study, which was to have been a primary vehicle for
reforming the rural financial system, was ultimately considered to be of quite limited value as a blueprint
for "structural changes" in the subsector, the simple existence of the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project
did provide a regular vehicle to discuss with GOM the significant reforms that did take place during the
project period. In this light, and even considering, as discussed above, that the timing and extent of the
next round of significant rural credit reforms appears stalled, it is difficult to conclude that the Bank made
the wrong decision to proceed with the project in 1987.
75.     In general, supervision of this project was timely and the staff resources devoted to it were
generally adequate. The productive support component, however, could have benefited of additional
supervision, although this component was clearly of secondary importance to both the Bank and the
Borrower. Supervision also continued the policy dialogue and included numerous discussions with
Government agencies on the inefficiencies and lack of transparency of the agricultural credit system. This
dialogue was beneficial in helping GOM achieve several worthwhile agricultural credit policy reform and
successful in laying a successful basis for further policy reforms, although a follow-up project Rural
Financial Subsector Project is now in abeyance.
B. The Borrower
76.     The Borrower's ultimate performance was good with regard to the reduction of interest rate
subsidies to agriculture, compared with project objectives. Subsidy reduction in this sense was effected
through an agreement to amend the GIRA to increase interest rates to PBIs and, most important, through
controlling the rate of inflation. Moreover, the Borrower ultimately implemented a series of reforms in
the rural credit subsector that went beyond the recommendations of the study.
77.     Possible criticisms of Borrower performance may include (a) the failure to take prompt action
regarding delayed construction of the FIRA headquarters building, which ultimately led to large cost
overruns and a still unfinished building; (b) inadequate monitoring and evaluation of the productive
support component; and (c) unwillingness to provide the Bank the data collected during the second phase
of the Agricultural Financial Subsector Study.



- 17 -
9. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
78.     The Bank-Borrower relationship was generally satisfactory, except that during project
preparation, the Borrower, reflecting a general pronounced sensitivity at that time concerning financial
sector issues, refused to allow Bank participation in the operational/financial review of BANRURAL, and
during implementation, SHCP was initially reluctant to share with the Bank information on the Agricultural
Financial Sector Study. The relationship improved later but still the Borrower declined to share the data
collected during the field surveys, although the Bank provided financing for this stage of the study.
Although the obligation of the Borrower to share the above information may not have been explicit, the
Bank-Borrower relationship could have been more supportive if there had been clear and full agreement
on project objectives, including the objectives of the study.
10. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
79.     The SAR provided a useful framework for the implementation of the major project component,
namely an agricultural credit line. However, the discussion on the objective and expected results of the
Agricultural Financial Subsector Study was incomplete, and the Legal Agreements were not clear about
the role that the Bank would play in carrying out the study. The design of the component on institutional
strengthening of the executing agencies did not provide an adequate framework for its successful
implementation. Finally, the SAR did not contemplate the construction of the FIRA's headquarters, either
in the narrative or in the project costs and economic analysis. Some inconsistencies in the cost of project
components were also found in the President's Report.
80.     Although both FIRA and FICART submitted their semi-annual progress reports as required, the
content of these reports was not fully adequate. In particular, records for the support services component
do not clearly and quantitatively evaluate actual project impact. In addition, effective reporting to the
Bank, through NAFIN, regarding construction of the headquarters building was inadequate. Although
serious delays had occurred during the first year of construction (1990), the Bank was not informed of
any problem until just before the contract was rescinded in 1991, although communication between the
Bank and the Borrower has been adequate since then on this issue.
81.     During preparation of this completion report, the reconciliation of Loan accounts with FIRA,
FICART, and NAFIN, was very cumbersome. The Bank records show several overdrawn disbursement
categories. Although the Government had expressed interest in a last reallocation of funds late in 1991,
it never informed the Bank specifically how funds were to be reallocated.  The Bank, therefore,
automatically reallocated funds to overdrawn categories until the entire Loan was disbursed. Records
from NAFIN and the executing agencies show somewhat different Loan allocations for these agencies than
that actually disbursed for each one of them according to the Bank's records, possibly indicating some
inadequate financial record keeping at the level of the project agencies.
82.     Most of the data relevant for the preparation of the PCR was readily available in the Bank's files.
As mentioned above, however, the Borrower records appear relatively fragmented and scattered, and the
executing agencies were not readily able to provide all the data requested by the PCR mission.
11. LESSONS LEARNED
83.     Measuring achievement of project objectives.  In future operations, the Bank and the
Borrower should build into project design an effective system for monitoring performance indicators to
measure the achievement of project objectives through the linkage between project activities and general
objectives such as "increase agricultural productivity," or avoid claiming such broad, difficult to measure
project objectives in the first place.



- 18 -
84.      Policy reforms. As in other projects, when this project was appraised it was difficult to decide
on the degree of policy reform needed to justify proceeding with the project. In the case of this project,
the subject was complicated by the wider country assistance strategy at the time, which included
substantial resource transfer objectives to support policy reform. Even today, it is difficult to measure
whether the project was "successful" (see below). The lesson is that the Bank and the Borrower should
be more specific about the objectives of a project, which may well include resource transfer objectives,
as well as about what would be considered "successful" implementation, especially with respect to policy
reforms.
85.      Agricultural credit policy reforms. A related lesson from this and Bank-assisted agricultural
credit projects in other countries is that, if the primary objective of a project is to reform the rural credit
system, then simply relying on studies to be carried out during the project may be an insufficient
instrument to encourage further reform, especially given the high degree of political sensitivity
agricultural credit has in many countries. Ideally, of course, all policy reforms would be made, or at
least agreed upon, prior to Loan approval. If this is not possible, then the lesson is to directly link
disbursements to the implementation of agreed action plans based on the recommendations of such
studies.
86.      In addition to the above general point, a number of lessons from the Mexico Ninth Agricultural
Credit Project are consistent with the Bank's experience with agricultural credit projects in other
countries:  (a) financial intermediaries at each link of the chain should pay the full cost of funds,
including administrative costs, to avoid distortions and overburdening government resources; (b)
agricultural insurance and credit guarantee programs should be actuarially sound; (c) government
institutions should be staffed and managed along commercial lines; and (d) to the extent that subsidies
are desired to help the poor, they should be transparent and well targeted.
87.      Selection of financial performance indicators. In retrospect, the Bank's concern with the
possible loss in value of FIRA's and FICART's equity appears overstated. The proportion of equity to
risky assets is very high for both institutions, even if measured conservatively. In future operations, the
Bank should focus on maintaining an adequate level of equity for a second-tier institution, as required
by the Mexican National Banking Commission, by adapting another standard such as the Basle Agreement
as it was done for first-tier DFIs in Operational Directive 8.30, or by agi-eeing on a system in line with
the "Convenio" mentioned in para. 24, instead of simply requiring maintenance of existing equity in real
terms.
88.      Civil works construction. Project files do not record that there was a thorough analysis of the
proposed FIRA headquarters building during project preparation and appraisal, and Bank supervision
missions have concluded that the eventual specifications are excessive. Especially for large buildings such
as this one (originally estimated to cost US$1 I million), calculations should be made during preparation
clearly showing the scope of the proposed investment, and conceptual designs and bidding conditions
should be agreed to during appraisal.  Without proper information, analysis and justification, such
proposed investments should not be accepted.
89.      Contractors. Approval of contracts which include disbursement for advances to contractors
run the risk of having these disbursements tied up in litigation if the contractor fails to perform.
Performance bonds, especially in Mexico, do not pay upon notification of contractor default. They are
only effective after legal settlement, which can be delayed for years. In the future, in countries like
Mexico, in which performance bonds may not be executed easily, the Bank and the Borrower should put
more emphasis on analyzing the financial condition and other qualifications of bidders during bid
evaluation.



- 19 -
12. CONCLUSIONS
90.      Achievement of project objectives was mixed. Achievement of the first objective, "increase
agricultural productivity and thus agricultural exports, real income and rural employment," cannot be
demonstrated. Not only did Mexican agriculture continue to stagnate during the project period, but the
methodology for measuring the link between the project and productivity was weak, especially given that
the Bank financed only a small share of FIRA/FICART'S total lending during the period.
91.      The second objective was to "assist Government to improve agricultural sector policies through
a further reduction of the interest subsidy." The specific objective of reducing interest rate subsidies was
achieved and other improvements in agricultural sector policies, including rural credit policies, were made
during the project period. However, the Government remains committed to credit subsidies as an element
of social policy and further significant rural credit reforms and the viability of BANRURAL, appear in
doubt, at least in the near future, as indicated by the suspension of preparation activities for the Rural
Financial Subsector Project.
92.      The third objective was to "assist the participating intermediaries [FIRA/FICART] to maintain their
financial integrity through: provisions for direct and transparent transfers from the Government to cover
remaining interest rate subsidies; improved financial management; and institutional development." This
objective was achieved in part. FIRA's and FICART's equity base was successfully maintained, and
Government subsidies became more transparent. However, as with the second objective, it is difficult
to conclude that these results have been satisfactory. Hidden subsidies remain, especially in the form of
cheap funds from BANXICO to FIRA, and neither FIRA nor FICART are financially self-supporting.
93.      Was the project successful?  As discussed earlier, the project was part of a wider country
assistance strategy that now seems to have been quite successful. Moreover, although resource transfer
objectives were not explicitly mentioned in the SAR, it is clear from a review of the project preparation
files that they were important in the Bank's consideration of the project. Certainly from this perspective,
the project can be considered successful.
94.      Even from the narrower perspective of the rural financial subsector, it can be argued that the
project was successful in achieving the major credit policy reform objectives specifically set for it, i.e.,
increasing PBI interest rates.  In addition, the project successfully served as a regular vehicle for
discussing additional policy reforms implemented during the project period.
95.      However, to the extent that the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project might have been considered
a transitional project, as the SAR suggests, one cannot escape the conclusion that it failed to lead to more
comprehensive reforms in a follow-up project. Even in this sense, the end-project situation would
probably have been acceptable had the Rural Financial Subsector Project begun immediately upon the
closing of Ninth Agricultural Credit Project, as once expected. However, despite the partial progress in
reforming the rural credit system begun under the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project, there appears to be
little immediate prospect for further major reforms.
96.      Moreover, the project failed to lead to the comprehensive reforms of the rural financial system,
which was the objective of the Agricultural Financial Subsector Study. In conclusion, the project can
only be considered partially successful.



- 20 -                                      ANNEX A
Page 1 of 3
MEXICO
NINTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2837-ME)
OPERATING PERFORMANCE OF THE EXECUTING AGENCIES
A.       FmRAs Operations
1.       FIRA's discount structure has generally supported with more attractive terms credit to low-income
producers (PBIs)&' and to other producers (OPs) engaged in the production of basic products,H' than
to producers of other products or agroindustrial activities. During the project period, commercial banks
were allowed to discount with FIRA 90 percent of their working capital or investment loans to PBIs and
80 percent of their loans to OPs, on the condition that these loans were granted at FiRA's preferential
interest rates. Banks are also required to charge FIRA's rate on the portion of PBIs loans financed with
their own funds, although they are allowed to set their own rates on short-term loans to ops if they co-
finance a higher proportion of the loan than the required 20 percent. Depending on producers' income
levels and type of production, FIRA grants the intermediary banks a 5 or 6-percentage point discount
margin. In turn, FIRA rediscounts part of its discounts with Banco de Mexico, at a rate equal to the
weighted average yield of its portfolio less 3.5 percentage points.
2.       FIRA's presence in agricultural financing has been increasingly significant. It discounted an
average of 28 percent of outstanding agricultural credit in Mexico during 1987-1991. As a percentage
of agricultural GDP, FlRA's discounts increased steadily, from 7 percent in 1987 to 11 percent in 1991.
Compared to 1987, FlRA's total annual discounts had grown 67 percent in real terms by 1991. However,
the composition of FlRA's program changed in terms of the type of loan discounted and the size of the
producers served.  Discounts of working capital loans grew  about 40 percent, while discounts of
investment loans more than doubled. Moreover, until 1988, FIRA's discounts were equally divided among
PBls and oPs. Since then, however, discounts to PBls declined sharply, reaching 18 percent of total
discounts in 1991.
3.       In addition to serving as a discount window for agricultural loans, through its FEGA (Fondo de
Garantfa y Asistencia Tecnica) subsidiary, FIRA extends guarantees to conmmercial banks on loans to PBls
to cover practically all risks (e.g., climatic, price variability, borrower insolvency). Until July 1988,
FEGA guarantees were provided free of charge. Since then, FEGA charges 2 percent and 3 percent for its
60 percent and 80 percent guarantees (a premium of 1.2-2.4 percent of the annual outstanding credit
balance).
4.       In constant 1991 pesos, net guarantees paid (guarantees paid minus guarantees later recovered)
by FEGA increased from Mex$16 billion in 1987 (0.8 percent of the amount guaranteed) to Mex$65
billion (8 percent) in 1991. Premium income as a percentage of net guarantee payments increased from
5 percent in 1988 to 40 percent in 1991, but this has not been enough to cover FEGA's losses and
shortfalls are covered with Government transfers.  Several reasons can explain this rapid increase in
FEGA's losses. First, the decline in inflation produced a sharp increase in real interest rates (from highly
L3i      Low-income producers (PBts) are those producers with net family income (from all sources) below 1,000 times
the minimum regional daily wage. Other Producers (OPs) are all those with incomes above the 1,000 multiple.
241      Basic products are: (a) Agriculture: maize, wheat, beans, rice, sorghum, soybean, cartamo, sesame, sunflower,
and copra; (b) Livestock: milk, eggs, meat, chicken, and other poultry; (c) Agroindustries: processed products derived
from the above agriculture and livestock products and/or inputs required for their production.



-21 -                                           ANNEX A
Page 2 of 3
negative to slightly negative or positive), albeit still subsidized, which led to cash flow and profitability
problems. Second, the opening of the economy and the consequent reduction in the domestic price of
important import competing crops like sorghum and soybeans contributed to farmers' cash flow problems.
Third, the dissolution of the Government's agricultural insurance company (ANAGSA) eliminated a
source of finance for those producers who covered part of their repayments to commercial banks with
the indemnities paid by ANAGSA.  But above all, FEGA's main problem  is that premia income is
insufficient to cover payments of guarantees. Premia are equal for all farmers, independent of risk, and
are issued against all risks, whether they are conventionally considered insurable or noninsurable. The
lesson is that during Mexico's next round of agricultural credit reforms, FEGA should be made self-
supporting by permitting it to charge actuarially sound premia.
5.        Another problem  with FEGA's guarantees is that they are not necessarily honored on demand.
Processing of payments is slow as each case is analyzed individually. An interesting feature of the
guarantee system is that even when the guarantee is honored, the borrower's debt is not written off, but
restructured as a zero interest loan, and the commercial bank involved retains the obligation to recover
the loan on FEGA's behalf for as long as it takes.-'
6.        FEGA also sponsors two technical assistance programs.  One of the programs is directly
addressed to PBls and reimburses, on a decreasing basis, individuals or groups of producers for the
production-oriented technical assistance they themselves contract.  The other program  reimbursed
commercial banks for part of the direct costs of making a loan, and partly for the costs of providing some
productive technical assistance.  This reimbursement was directly linked to the amount lent and
represented about 3 percent of the banks' annual discounts and 70 percent of their technical staff. This
cost reimbursement system was complex, encouraged banks to make large loans rather than lend to small
farmers, and reimbursed commercial banks for the cost of keeping an infrastructure--perhaps overstated--
that was set up to serve- old and new borrowers alike. To address this problem, in July 1992 FIRA started
experimenting with a system to link repayments to banks per farmer served rather than by loan size.L6'
Despite the above, these programs have served to induce some commercial banks lending to PBIs, and
encouraged small farmers to adopt advanced agricultural technologies.
B.        FICART/BANRURAL'S Operations
7.        The trust fund FICART was set up in 1976 largely to accommodate the multilateral lenders'
desire to disassociating their Mexican agriculture credit operations from BANRURAL's bad loan portfolio.
FICART's sole function was to deal with BANRURAL, which lends almost exclusively to low-income
farmers unable to provide collateral.-7'
2_i       In May 1993, in addition to the traditional guarantee services described above, FEGA introduced two options with
different coverage which are honored without FIRAs individual analysis.
26/       After this report was prepared and submitted to GOM, FEGA introduced some changes in its stimulus programs
for commercial banks.  First, it discontinued its previous technical assistance reimbursement program  based on loan
amounts. Second, it revised the transaction cost reimbursement scheme (known as StEBAN, Sistema de Estimulos a la Banca
y a los Productores - Incentive System for Banks and Producers) to provide further incentives for commercial bank lending
to Productores en Desarrollo (those with annual incomes below 3,000 times the daily minimum wage) and to make smaller
loans. Third, it introduced a new reimbursement scheme for technical assistance under the Asistencia Thcnica-Operativa
Integral (ATOI-Integrated Technical-Operating Assistance) program for loan amounts larger than those covered under the
SIE3AN. Fourth, it continues to partially reimburse, to farmers and commercial banks, for technical assistance to production
under its Sistema de Asistencia Technical Integral (SATI - Integrated Technical Assistance System).
27/       In June 1993, the Government informed the Bank that it had dissolved FICART as of December 31, 1992, and
that had transferred its assets to BANRURAL.



-22 -                                      ANNEX A
Page 3 of 3
8.      FICART's annual discounts showed a real increase of 23 percent from 1987 through 1990 despite
steep declines in Government transfers. However, discounts plummeted in 1991, dropping 27 percent
in real terms from their 1990 value. The relative importance of FICART in funding BANRURAL'S annual
operations increased substantially until 1990. While it discounted about 13 percent of BANRURAL's annual
lending in 1987, it discounted about 29 percent in 1990, equivalent to 70 percent of BANRURAL's
investment loans. In 1991, FICART discounted 28 percent of all BANRURAL's loans, which represented,
however, only 26 percent of its investment loans. In turn, FICART increased substantially its discounts
of short-term loans which jumped from 7 percent of BANRURAL's working capital loans in 1989 to 26
percent in 1991.
9.      BANRURAL's contribution to agricultural financing has been substantial, providing an average
of 21 percent of all agricultural credit in Mexico during the 1987-1991. As a percentage of agricultural
GDP, BANRURAL's lending oscillated between 10-13 percent during 1987-1988, but decreased to 6 and
4 percent in 1990 and 1991, as its lending program started to shrink.
10.     BANRURAL's financial performance, however, has been poor, characterized mainly by very poor
loan evaluation procedures, very low recovery ratios and high operating costs.25' During 1987-91, the
Government transferred large sums to BANRURAL to keep it in business. In constant 1991 terms, the
value of total Government transfers to BANRURAL amounted to approximately Mex$29,038 billion
(US$7.9 million). Since 1989, however, BANRURAL has undergone a substantial adjustment process as
part of the Governrment's policy of restructuring Mexico's public administration. Compared to 528
branches and 23,234 employees in 1988, the number of BANRURAL's branches and employees was 224
and 11,325, respectively, in 1991. BANRURAL is also trying to improve loan recovery by denying
additional credit to borrowers in default. This action was forced, in part, by the Government's decision
to reduce transfers and close down the Government's agricultural insurance company (ANAGSA), from
which BANRURAL recovered about 20 percent of its loans.
11.     With reduced Government support, funds available for lending declined, and BANRURAL'S annual
lending program (in constant 1991 terms) fell sharply--from Mex$6, 111 billion (US$2.0 bi]lion) for 5.5
million hectares in 1989 to Mex$2,937 billion (US$979 million) for 1.8 million hectares in 1991. Despite
the shrinking of its lending program, BANRURAL incurred increasing additional losses totalling Mex$6,206
billion (1991 pesos) from 1989-1991. Loan collection ratios are still low, ranging from 50 percent for
the spring/summer 1990 crop to 78 percent for the autumn/winter 1990/91 crop. Operating costs are still
excessively high: 53 cents per peso lent in 1991, compared to around 8-10 cents per peso lent by
commnercial banks to agriculture.
12.     In December 1991, the Government decided to transfer around 40 percent of BANRURAL's
portfolio (around MexS3,900 billion) to the National Solidarity Program (PRONASOL) and the Trust
Fund to Restructure Overdue Portfolio (FIRCAVEN).  The portfolio transferred comprised all the
overdue ejidal loans up to November 14, 1991.'9' GOM hopes to change through these actions the
attitude of farmers remaining with BANRURAL, moving from a defaulting to a loan repayment attitude.
It is not yet possible to demonstrate whether this has, in fact, taken place.
28/     A full review of BANRURAL's financial performance from 1980-1989 may be found in "The Banrural
Agricultural Credit System," dated January 16, 1990, in the previously proposed Rural Financial Subsector Project files,
LAC Information Center.
191     Ejidal loans are those loans received by ejidatarios. either as individuals or as members of the ejido.



- 23 -                                       ANNEX B
Page 1 of 6
MEXICO
NINTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2837-ME)
FINANCIAL DATA
Table 1
Evolution of FIRA's Equity
(1986-1991)
Net Worth in      Change       Net Worth in   Change from
Year       billions of    from 1/1/86     millions of       1/1/86
end       1991 Mex$          (%)         1991 US$_a         (%)
1985            2,506.7             ---          571.4
1986            2,996.8           19.55          554.8            -2.91
1987            2,385.2           -4.85          461.6           -19.22
1988            3,423.7           36.58          935.8           63.77
1989            4,110.5           63.98        1,108.2           93.94
1990            4,058.5          61.91         1,209.6          111.69
1991 b/         4,114.1           64.12        1,339.7          134.46
a/ In 1991, FlRA's capital account included Mex$1,281.6 billion in debt with the Federal Government that has been
transferred to long-term liabilities, but was disregarded for purposes of comparison with previous years.
b/ Dollar values based on exchange rate at year end inflated by the US CPI.
Source: FIRA's audited financial statements (excluding FOPESCA).
Note: Figures manv not add up due to rounding.               0
Note: For the purpose of this Annex, figures in 1991 currency were calculated using the average CPI for flow data
and the year-end CPI for stocks. Figures in US dollars were calculated using average exchange rates for flows and
year-end exchange rates for stocks. Figures in constant 1991 US dollars were calculated by converting local
currency to US dollars, then adjusting by the US CPI.



- 24 -                                            ANNEX B
Page 2 of 6
Table 2
FIRA: Estimated Reduction in the Value of Government Transfers
(January 1986-December 1991)
Billions of     Millions of
1991 Mex$    1991 US$ b/
1.  Equity on January 1, 1986                                                  2,506.6             571.4
2.  GOM  Capital Contributions (1986-91)                                        4,617.7           1,137.9
3.  Net Operating Income before Operating Subsidies (1986-91)                   4,553.5           1,220.5
4.  Total Net Inflows (2+3)                                                     9,171.2         2,2358.4
5.  Estimated Value of Equity at Dec. 31, 1991 (1+4)                           11,677.8          2,929.8
6.  Accounting Equity at Dec. 31, 1991                                          4,114.1           1,339.7
7.  Reduction in Value of Equity (6-5)                                         (7,563.7)        (1,590.2)
8.  Reduction in Value of GOM  Contributions to Equity (7+3)                   (3,010.2)           (369.7)
9.  GOM  Contributions to Income (1986-91) a/                                     676.2             199.5
10. Total GOM  Contributions (2+9)                                              5,293.9          1,337.4
11. Total Reduction in the Value of GOM  Contributions (8-9)                   (3,686.4)          (569.1)
a/ Includes operating subsidies, payments of FeCA guarantees, and assumption of FIRA'u debt.
b/ Dollar values inflated by us cPI.
Table 3
Estimated Cost to the Government of the FIRA System
(In biDions of 1991 Mexican Pesos)
Estimated
Amount of Subsidy        GOM             Other GOM           Estimated Total
Year       via Low Cost       Contribution to    Transfers Applied    Cost to the GOM of
Sources of Funds a/    FIRA's Capital    to Income b/       the FIRA System
(1)                (2)                (3)              (1 + 2 + 3)
1986               2,857.3          1,582.0                 54.8              4,494.1
1987               2,158.2            963.9                 34.6              3,156.7
1988                683.1           1,383.0                 32.4              2,098.5
1989               1,107.0            405.3                189.3              1,701.6
1990               1,169.8            172.8                145.7              1,488.3
1991                614.5             110.7               219.4                 944.6
Total              8,589.9          4,617.7                676.2              13,883.8
a/ Bank estimate; represents the difference between FIRA'S actual interest expense and the amount of interest that would
have accrued had FIRA paid CPP in 1982-1989 and CETES thereafter.
b/ Includes operating subsidies, payments of FEGA guarantees, and assumption of FIRA'S debt.
Source: Tables 2-3: FIRA'S audited financial statements (excluding FOPESCA).
Note: Figures many not add up due to rounding.



- 25 -                                      ANNEX B
Page 3 of 6
Table 4
Evolution of FICART's Equity
(1986-1991)
Reported Net    Change    Reported Net   Change
Year      Worth in       from        Worth in       from
end      billions of    1/1/86     millions of     l/l/86
1991 Mex$       (%)       1991 US$ a/      () l
1985         1,463.7                     333.7              l
1986         1,029.1      -29.69          190.5     -42.91
1987          857.4       -41.42          165.9     -50.28
1988         1,323.9       -9.55         361.9         8.45
1989         1,680.0       14.78         452.9       35.72
1990         1,699.0       16.08         506.4       51.75
19i9          1,597.0         9.11         519.9       55.80
a/ Dollar values based on exchange rate at year end inflated by US CPI.
Source: FICART's audited financial statements.
Table 5
FICART: Estimnated Reduction in the Value of Government Transfers
(January 1986-December 1991)
Billions of    Millions of
1991 Mex$       1991 US$
1. Equity on January 1, 1986                                      1,464            334
2. GOM Annual Transfers (1986-91)                                 1,343            336
3. Net Operating Income before Operating Subsidies (1986-91)      1,883            506
4. Total Net Inflows (2+3)                                        3,226            841
5. Estimated Value of Equity at Dec. 31, 1991 (1+4)               4,689          1,174
6. Accounting Equity at Dec. 31, 1991                             1,597            520
7. Reduction in Value of Equity (6-5)                            (3,093)          (654)
8. Reduction in Value of GOM Transfers (7+3)                     (1,210)          (149)
a/ Dollar values inflated by US CPI.
Source: FICART's audited financial statements.
Note: Figures many not add up due to rounding.



-26 -                                               ANNEX B
Page 4 of 6
Table 6
MEXICO
GOVERNMENT TRANSFERS TO THE RURAL FINANCIAL SYSTEM
1986-1991
(Million of 1991 US$)        1986        1987       1988          1989         1990        1991      1986-91
US CPI Index 1991=100         0.806      0.835        0.868         0.910        0.959      1.000       --
BANRURAL                       1,001       808         1,576        1,177        2,997        315        7,874
ANAGSA                          437        414          583          442            ---                  1,875
FICART                           85         61          123            43           12         12          335
FIRA                            359        217          385           171           96        109        1,337
TOTAL                          1,881      1,501       2,666         1,833        3,105        436       11,422
Note: nominal pesos converted to nominal dollars, then deflated by US consumer price index, base year 1991.
(Billions of 1991 Mex$)      1986       1987        1988          1989         1990        1991      1986-91
Mexico CPI 1991=100          0.108      0.250       0.536        0.644        0,815       1.000
BANRURAL                      4,566      3,712        5,799         4,096        9,916        949       29,038
ANAGSA                         1,993      1,900       2,143         1,539            0          0        7,575
FICART                          386        282          451           149           39         36        1,343
FIRA                           1,637       998         1,415         595           319        330        5,294
TOTAL                         8,582      6,893        9,808         6,378       10,273      1,315       43,249
Source: FIRA, BANRURAL, AGNASA and FICART's audited financial statements and direct information.



-27 -
ANNEX B
Table 7                                    Page 5 of 6
MEXICO
REAL INTEREST RATES TO LOW-INCOME PRODUCERS
Producer Rate    Average   Annual Ave.   Annual
Year  Type of Credit     Reference          % of       Nominzil      Nominal   Inflation    Real
Rate         Ref. Rate    Ref. Rate     PBI Rate       Rate   PBI Rate
1987 Working Capital        CPP            79%         94.64%        74.8%       159.2%   -32.6%
Investment            CPP            70%                       66.3%                 -35.9%
1988 Working Capital        CPP            97%         67.64%        65.6%       51.7%      9.2%
Investment            CPP            95%                       64.3%                  8.3%
L
1989 'Working Capital       CPP            97%         44.61%        43.3%       19.7%    19.7%
Investment            CPP            95%                       42.4%                  18.9%
1990 Working Capital      CETES            97%         34.81%        33.8%       29.9%      3.0%
Investment          CETES            95%                       33.1%                  2.4%
1991 Working Capital      CETES            97%         19.30%        18.7%       18.8%    -0.1%
Investment          CETES            95%Ko                     18.3%                  -0.4%
REAL INTEREST RATES TO OTHER PRODUCERS
Producer Rate    Average   Annual Ave.   Annual
Year  Type of Credit     Reference          % of       Nominal       Nominal   MIflation    Real
Rate        Ref. Rate a/  Ref. Rate      OP Rate       Rate    OP Rate
1987 Working Capital        CPP           105%         94.64%        99.4%       159.2%   -23.1%
Investment            CPP            96 %                      90.9%                 -26.4%
1988 Working Capital       CPP          100% + 3       67.64%        70.6%       51.7%    12.5%
Investment            CPP          100% + 1                    68.6%                  11.2%
1989 Working Capital       CPP          100% + 3       44.61%        47.6%       19.7%    23.3%
Investment            CPP          100% + 1                    45.6 %                21.67c
1990 Working Capital      CETES         100% + 3       34.81%        37.8%       29.9%      6.1%
Investment          CETES          100% + 1                    35.8%                  4.5%
1991 Working Capital      CETES         100% + 3       19.30%        22.3%       18.8%      2.9%
Investment          CETES          100% + 2                    21.3%                  2.1%
a/ For the sake of simplicity, these producer rates are those charged to OPs engaged in the production
of basic products.



- 28 -                                          ANNEX B
Page 6 of 6
Table 8
FIRA & BANRURAL
ESTIMATED PRODUCER SUBSIDIES VIA CONTROLLED INTEREST RATES
(In billions of MexS)
1987    1988     1989      1990      1991
CETES                                               122.5%   52.3%    45.09%    34.8%       19.3%
CPP                                                  94.6%    67.6%    44.69e   37.1%       22.6%
Deflator Base 1991                                   0.250   0.536    0.644      0.815      1.000
GDP                                                 47,392  79,536  193,701   389,259   503,668
Agricultural GDP                                    16,825  30,691   30,189    54,445   76,127
1.  Average Loan Portfolio                                 825    1,881    3,006      4,833     7,901
.  Annual Int. Income on Port.                            531      847     1,051     1,440     1,197
.  Annual Implicit Int. Rate                             64.3%   45.0%    35.0%      29.8%     15.1%
4.  Interest Income at CPP (87-89)/CETES (90-91) + 1 p.p.  789    1,291     1,371     1,731     1,604
.  Interest Subsidy [ 4 - 2]                              258      444      320       291       407
.  Interest Subsidy in Constant 1991 billion Pesos      1,031      828      497       356       407
.  Interest Subsidy as % of AGDP                         1.54%   1.45%    1.06%      0.53%     0.53f%
.  Intcrest Subsidy as % of GDP                         0.55%    0.569%    0.17%     0.07%     0.08%
1.  Average Loan Portfolio                               1,893    3,743     4,763     5,360     5,487
2.  Annual Int. Income on Port.                            895    1,618     1,719     1,713       995
3.  Annual Implicit Int. Rate                             47.3%   43.2%     36.1%     32.0%     18.1%
4.  Interest Income at CPP + 6 p.p.                      1,905   2,757    2,410       2,308     1,567
.  Interest Subsidy [ 4 - 2]                            1,010    1,138      692       596       572
6.  Interest Subsidy in Constant 1991 billion Pesos      4,031    2,122     1,074       731       572
7.  Interest Subsidy as % of AGDP                          6.0%    3.7%      2.3%      1.1%      0.8%
S.  Interest Subsidy as % of GDP                           2.1%     1.4%     0.4%      0.2%      0.1%
1.  Interest Subsidy                                     1,268    1,582     1,011       886      979
.  Interest Subsidy in Constant 1991 billion Pesos      5,063    2,950     1,571     1,087      979
.  Interest Subsidy in Constant 1991 USS million        1,102      802      452       329       324
.  Interest Subsidy as % of AGDP                        7.54%|  5.16%o    3.35%o    1.63f%    1.29%c
5   Interest Subsidy as % of GDP                          2.68%1  1.99%1   0.52%      0.23% 9    0.19%
Sources: FIRA Annual Reports and Audited Financial Statements, BANRURAL's Audited Financial Statements.
Note: average balances of BANRURAL's portfolio in 1987 and 1988 are actual average balances; 1989-91 figures
represent two-year averages. The balance for 1991 is prior to the transfer of part of BANRURAL's
portfolio to FIRCARVEN and PRONASOL.
Assumptions:
1. FIRA has charged CPP (1987-89) or CETES (1990-91) plus 1 percentage point to cover its costs of financial
intermediation. This also implies that FIRA has paid the reference rate for its rediscounts with BANXICO.
2. To support its operations, BANRURAL requires 6 percentage points above CPP every year. It should be
noted, however, that BANRURAL could possibly require a higher intermediation margin to cover its administrative
costs. The use of a higher margin though would have overestimated the amount of producer subsidy
by transferring the cost of BANRURAL's operating inefficiencies to the producers. On the other hand, it could be
argued that a higher intermediation margin could be justified due to the risky nature of BANRURAL's clientcle.



- 29 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
94E0150      September 24, 1993
Spanish      (Mexico)
LA2AG        JRT:uh
Nacional Financiera - NAFIN
BBL-706-VIII-93
MULTILATERAL FINANCING DEPARTMENT
August 19, 1993
Michael Baxter
Chief, Agriculture Operations Division
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Baxter:
I am writing in reference to Loan 2837-ME contracted with the World Bank to partially
finance the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project.
In this connection, regarding your communication BBL-679-VIII-93 of August 6 on the
drafting of the Project Completion Report, I attach hereto our Part II, which reflects the views of the
entities involved in the project. If possible, kindly replace the previous version sent with the present
one and take the steps necessary for publication.
Very truly yours,
lsl Juan Manuel Izquierdo Sosa
Manager
cc:    Miguel Gonzalez Garcia, Director General and Special Trust Delegate, FICART
Pedro Gollas Arciniega, Executive Coordinator of International Agencies, FIRA
Ram6n Benitez Galarza, Deputy Director of Productive Infrastructure Projects, SHCP
Timoteo Harris Howard, Deputy Director of International Agencies, NAFIN
Jose Garcia Torres, Executive Representative in Washington, D.C., NAFIN



- 30 -
PART II: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (LOAN 2837-ME)
Background
Loan 2837-ME, the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project, was signed on July 31, 1987 in an
amount equivalent to US$400 million. The disbursement period was originally five years (June 30,
1991), although it was necessary to request an extension of one year (June 30, 1992) to utilize all
credit funds, which were fully disbursed by April 2, 1992.
Two executing agencies were involved in the project, the Trust Funds for Agriculture (FIRA)
and the Trust Fund for Credit in Irrigated and Rainfed Areas (FICART).
The comments made by the executing agencies are reflected below.
A.    FIRA
1. Introduction
This is the ninth in a series of World Bank loans to the Government of Mexico to finance
agricultural credits granted by the commercial banks. The sole executing agency for the first eight
loans was FIRA. FICART was also involved as an executor for discounting credits made by
BANRURAL.
2. Project Objectives and Description
The objectives described in detail in Part I of this report that were included in the loan request
prepared by FIRA in 1985 reflect its continuing efforts to use credit as a means for improving living
conditions in the agriculture sector. Thus, overall objectives included increasing output and
productivity, which are difficult to ascribe to any one factor, such as credit, since agricultural
activities are subject to circumstances beyond human control and to the ups and downs of the world
economy.
However, the specific objectives regarding accredited borrowers were very clearly delineated
(income levels, productivity, etc.) and were continuously evaluated by FIRA through its SERC
(System for the Evaluation of the Results of the Loan). The reports for each phase were submitted to
the World Bank.
In this connection, the ninth project was designed to achieve certain targets with regard to the
accredited producers. To this end, the farm models were formulated and used as a basis for deriving
the physical targets.
3. Project Implementation
FIRA executed the part corresponding to it in accordance with the legal documents. All
ejidatarios included in the disbursement requests were considered PBIs on the basis of their income,
and therefore eligible to receive credit under preferential terms.



- 23 -                                      ANNEX B
Page I of 6
MEXICO
NINTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2837-ME)
FINANCIAL DATA
Table I
Evolution of FIRA's Equity
(1986-1991)
Net Worth in     Change       Net Worth in   Change from
Year       billions of    from 1/1/86    millions of      1/1/86
end       1991 Mex$         (%)         1991 US$ a/        (%)
1985           2,506.7             ---         571.4                   l
1986           2,996.8           19.55         554.8            -2.91
1987           2,385.2           -4.85         461.6           -19.22
1988           3,423.7           36.58          935.8           63.77
1989           4,110.5           63.98        1,108.2           93.94
1990           4,058.5           61.91        1,209.6          111.69
1991 b/        4,114.1           64.12        1 ,339.7         134.46
a/ In 1991, FIRA's capital account included Mex$1,281.6 billion in debt with the Federal Government that has been
transferred to long-term liabilities, but was disregarded for purposes of comparison with previous years.
b/ Dollar values based on exchange rate at year end inflated by the US CPI.
Source: FRA's audited financial statements (excluding FOPESCA).
Note: Figures many not add up due to rounding.
Note: For the purpose of this Annex, figures in 1991 currency were calculated using the average CPI for flow data
and the year-end CPI for stocks. Figures in US dollars were calculated using average exchange rates for flows and
year-end exchange rates for stocks. Figures in constant 1991 US dollars were calculated by converting local
currency to US dollars, then adjusting by the US CPI.



- 24 -                                            ANNEX B
Page 2 of 6
Table 2
FIRA: Estimated Reduction in the Value of Government Transfers
(January 1986-December 1991)
Billions of     Millions of
1991 Mex$    1991 US$ b/
1.  Equity on January 1, 1986                                                   2,506.6            571.4
2.  GOM  Capital Contributions (1986-91)                                        4,617.7           1,137.9
3.  Net Operating Income before Operating Subsidies (1986-91)                   4,553.5           1,220.5
4.  Total Net Inflows (2+3)                                                     9,171.2         2,2358.4
5.  Estimated Value of Equity at Dec. 31, 1991 (1+4)                           11,677.8          2,929.8
6.  Accounting Equity at Dec. 31, 1991                                          4,114.1           1,339.7
7.  Reduction in Value of Equity (6-5)                                         (7,563.7)         (1,590.2)
8.  Reduction in Value of GOM  Contributions to Equity (7+3)                   (3,010.2)           (369.7)
9.  GOM  Contributions to Income (1986-91) _/                                     676.2             199.5
10. Total GOM  Contributions (2+9)                                             5,293.9            1,337.4
11. Total Reduction in the Value of GOM  Contributions (8-9)                   (3,686.4)          (569.1)
a/ Includes operating subsidies, payments of FEGA guarantees, and assumption of FIRA'a debt.
b' Dollar values inflated by us cPi.
Table 3
Estimated Cost to the Government of the FIRA System
(In billions of 1991 Mexican Pesos)
Estimated
AYvount of Subsidy       GOM             Other GOM           Estimated Total
Yrar       via Low Cost       Contribution to    Transfers Applied    Cost to the GOM of
Sources of Funds a/    FlRA's Capital    to Income b/       the FIRA System
(1)                (2)                (3)             (1 + 2 + 3)
1986               2,857.3          1,582.0                 54.8              4,494.1
1987               2,158.2            963.9                 34.6              3,156.7
1988                683.1           1,383.0                32.4               2,098.5
1989               1,107.0            405.3               189.3               1,701.6
1990               1,169.8            172.8                145.7              1,488.3
1991                614.5             110.7               219.4                 944.6
Total              8,589.9          4,617.7                676.2  T           13,883.8
a/  Bank estimate; represents the difference between FIRA's actual interest expense and the amount of interest that would
have accrued had FIRA paid CPP in 1982-1989 and CETES thereafter.
b/ Includes operating subsidies, payments of FEGA guarantees, and assumption of FIRA's debt.
Source: Tables 2-3: FIRA's audited financial statements (excluding FOPESCA).
Note: Figures many not add up due to rounding.



- 25 -                                       ANNEX B
Page 3 of 6
Table 4
Evolution of FICART's Equity
(1986-1991)
Reported Net    Change    Reported Net   Change
Year      Worth in        from        Worth in       from
end      billions of     1/1/86     millions of     1/1/86
1991 Mex$        (%)       1991 US$ a/      (%)
1985         1,463.7           ---         333.7
1986         1,029.1       -29.69          190.5      -42.91
1987           857.4       -41.42          165.9      -50.28
1988         1,323.9        -9.55          361.9        8.45
1989         1,680.0        14.78          452.9       35.72
1990         1,699.0        16.08         506.4        51.75
1991         1,597.0         9.11         519.9        55.80
aI Dollar values based on exchange rate at year end inflated by US CPI.
Source: FICART's audited financial statements.
Table 5
FICART: Estimated Reduction in the Value of Government Transfers
(January 1986-December 1991)
Billions of     Millions of
1991 Mex$       1991 USS
1. Equity on January 1, 1986                                        1,464            334
2. GOM Annual Transfers (1986-91)                                   1,343            336
3. Net Operating Income before Operating Subsidies (1986-91)        1,883            506
4. Total Net Inflows (2+3)                                          3,226            841
5. Estimated Value of Equity at Dec. 31, 1991 (1+4)                 4,689           1,174
6. Accounting Equity at Dec. 31, 1991                               1,597            520
7. Reduction in Value of Equity (6-5)                              (3,093)          (654)
8. Reduction in Value of GOM Transfers (7+3)                       (1,210)          (149)
a/ Dollar values inflated by US CPI.
Source: FICART's audited financial statements.
Note: Figures many not add up due to rounding.



- 26 -                                             ANNEX B
Page 4 of 6
Table 6
MEXICO
GOVERNMENT TRANSFERS TO THE RURAL FINANCIAL SYSTEM
1986-1991
(Million of 1991 US$)        1986       1987       1988         1989         1990        1991      1986-91
US CPI Index 1991 = 100       0.806     0.835        0.868        0.910        0.959      1.000  _     _
BANRURAL                      1,001       808        1,576        1,177        2,997       315        7,874
ANAGSA                         437        414          583          442           ---                 1,875
FICART                           85        61          123           43           12         12         335
FIRA                           359        217          385          171           96       109        1,337
TOTAL                         1,881      1,501       2,666        1,833        3,105       436       11,422
Note: nominal pesos converted to nominal dollars, then deflated by US consumer price index, base year 1991.
(Billions of 1991 Mex$)      1986      1987        1988         1989         1990       1991       1986-91
Mexico CPI 1991 = 100       0.108      0.250      0.536        0.644        0.815       1.000
BANRURAL                      4,566     3,712        5,799        4,096        9,916       949       29,038
ANAGSA                        1,993      1,900       2,143        1,539            0         0        7,575
FICART                         386        282          451          149           39        36        1,343
FIRA                          1,637       998        1,415          595          319       330        5,294
TOTAL                         8,582     6,893        9,808        6,378       10,273      1,315      43,249
Source: FIRA, BANRURAL, AGNASA and FICART's audited financial statements and direct information.



- 27 -
ANNEX B
Table 7                                     Page 5 of 6
MEXICO
REAL INTEREST RATES TO LOW-INCOME PRODUCERS
Producer Rate    Average   Annual Ave.   Annual
Year  Type of Credit     Reference          % of       Nominal       Nominal   Inflation    Real
Rate         Ref. Rate    Ref. Rate     PBI Rate       Rate   PBI Rate
1987 Working Capital        CPP            79%         94.64%        74.8%       159.2%   -32.6%
Investment            CPP            70%                       66.3%                 -35.9%
1988 Working Capital        CPP            97%         67.64%        65.6%       51.7%      9.2%
Investment            CPP            95%                       64.3%                  8.3%
z
1989 'Working Capital      CPP             97%         44.61%        43.3%       19.7%    19.7%
Investment            CPP            95%                       42.4%                  18.9%
1990 Working Capital      CETES            97%         34.81%        33.8%       29.9%      3.0%
Investment          CETES            95%                       33.1%                  2.4%
1991 Working Capital      CETES            97%         19.30%o       18.7%       18.8%    -0.1%
Investment          CETES            95%                       18.3%                  -0.4%
REAL INTEREST RATES TO OTHER PRODUCERS
Producer Rate    Average   Annual Ave.   Annual
Year  Type of Credit     Reference          % of       Nominal       Nominal   Inflation    Real
Rate        Ref. Rate a/  Ref. Rate      OP Rate       Rate    OP Rate
1987 Working Capital        CPP           105%         94.64%        99.4%       159.2%   -23.1%
Investment            CPP            96%                       90.9%                 -26.4%
1988 Working Capital        CPP         100% + 3       67.64%        70.6%       51.7%    12.5%
Investment            CPP          100% + 1                    68.6%                  11.2%
1989 Working Capital       CPP          100% + 3       44.61%        47.6 %      19.7%    23.3%
Investment            CPP          100% + 1                    45.6%                 21.6%
1990 Working Capital      CETES         100% + 3       34.81%        37.8%       29.9%      6.1%
Investment          CETES          100% + 1                    35.8%                  4.5%
1991 Working Capital      CETES         100% + 3       19.30%        22.3 %      18.8%      2.9%
Investment          CETES          100% + 2                    21.3%                  2.1%
a/ For the sake of simplicity, these producer rates are those charged to OPs engaged in the production
of basic products.



- 28 -                                          ANNEX B
Page 6 of 6
Table 8
FIRA & BANRURAL
ESTIMATED PRODUCER SUBSIDIES VIA CONTROLLED INTEREST RATES
(In billions of MexS)
1987    1988     1989      1990      1991
CETES                                               122.5%    52.3%    45.09c   34.8%       19.3%
CPP                                                  94.6%   67.6%    44.6%       37.1%     22.6%
Deflator Base 1991                                   0.250   0.536    0.644      0.815      1.000
GDP                                                 47,392  79,536  193,701   389,259   503,668
Agricultural GDP                                    16,825  30,691   30,189    54,445   76,127
~~~~~~~~~~~~u.
1.  Average Loan Portfolio                                 825    1,881    3,006      4,833     7,901
.  Annual Int. Income on Port.                            531      847    1,051      1,440     1,197
.  Annual Implicit Int. Rate                             64.3%    45.0%    35.0%     29.8%     15.1%
.  Interest Income at CPP (87-89)/CETES (90-91) + 1 p.p.  789    1,291     1,371     1,731     1,604
.  Interest Subsidy [ 4 - 2]                              258      444      320       291       407
.  Interest Subsidy in Constant 1991 billion Pesos      1,031      828      497       356       407
.  Interest Subsidy as % of AGDP                         1.54%    1.45%    1.06%     0.53 %    0.53%
.  Interest Subsidy as % of GDP                         0.55%   0.56%      0.17%     0.07%     0.08%
1.  Average Loan Portfolio                               1,893   3,743    4,763       5,360    5,487
2.  Annual Int. Income on Port.                            895    1,618     1,719     1,713       995
.  Annual Implicit Int. Rate                            47.3%    43.2%    36.1%      32.0%     18.1%
4.  Interest Income at CPP + 6 p.p.                      1,905   2,757    2,410       2,308     1,567
5.  Interest Subsidy [ 4 - 2 ]                           1,010   1,138       692       596       572
.  Interest Subsidy in Constant 1991 billion Pesos      4,031   2,122      1,074      731       572
7.  Interest Subsidy as % of AGDP                          6.0%    3.7%      2.3%      1.1%      0.8%
8.  Interest Subsidy as %o of GDP                          2.1%     1.4%     0.4%      0.2%      0.1%
1   Interest Subsidy                                     1,268    1,582     1,011       886      979
2.  Interest Subsidy in Constant 1991 billion Pesos      5,063    2,950    1,571      1,087      979
3.  Interest Subsidy in Constant 1991 USS million         1,102     802       452       329      324
.  Interest Subsidy as % of AGDP                        7.54%   5.16%    3.35%       1.63%     1.29%
5.  Interest Subsidy as % of GDP                          2.68%    1.99%    0.52%     0.23 %    0.19%
Sources: FIRA Annual Reports and Audited Financial Statements, BANRURAL's Audited Financial Statements.
Note: average balances of BANRUR-AL's portfoLio in 1987 and 1988 are actual average balances; 1989-91 figures
represent two-year averages. The balance for 1991 is prior to the transfer of part of BANRURAL's
portfoLio to FIRCARVEN and PRONASOL.
Assumptions:
1. FIRA has charged CPP (1987-89) or CETES (1990-91) plus 1 percentage point to cover its costs of financial
intermediation. This also implies that FIRA has paid the reference rate for its rediscounts with BANXICO.
2. To support its operations, BANRURAL requires 6 percentage points above CPP every year. It should be
noted, however, that BANRURAL could possibly require a higher intermediation margin to cover its administrative
costs. The use of a higher margin though would have overestimated the amount of producer subsidy
by transferring the cost of BAN RURAL's operating inefficiencies to the producers. On the other hand, it could be
argued that a higher intermediation margin could be justified due to the risky nature of BANRURAL's clientele.



- 29 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
94E0150      September 24, 1993
Spanish      (Mexico)
LA2AG        JRT:uh
Nacional Financiera - NAFIN
BBL-706-VIII-93
MULTILATERAL FINANCING DEPARTMENT
August 19, 1993
Michael Baxter
Chief, Agriculture Operations Division
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Baxter:
I am writing in reference to Loan 2837-ME contracted with the World Bank to partially
finance the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project.
In this connection, regarding your communication BBL-679-VIII-93 of August 6 on the
drafting of the Project Completion Report, I attach hereto our Part II, which reflects the views of the
entities involved in the project. If possible, kindly replace the previous version sent with the present
one and take the steps necessary for publication.
Very truly yours,
lsl Juan Manuel Izquierdo Sosa
Manager
cc:    Miguel Gonzalez Garcia, Director General and Special Trust Delegate, FICART
Pedro Gollas Arciniega, Executive Coordinator of International Agencies, FIRA
Ram6n Benitez Galarza, Deputy Director of Productive Infrastructure Projects, SHCP
Timoteo Harris Howard, Deputy Director of International Agencies, NAFIN
Jose Garcia Torres, Executive Representative in Washington, D.C., NAFIN



- 30 -
PART Il: PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (LOAN 2837-ME)
Background
Loan 2837-ME, the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project, was signed on July 31, 1987 in an
amount equivalent to US$400 million. The disbursement period was originally five years (June 30,
1991), although it was necessary to request an extension of one year (June 30, 1992) to utilize all
credit funds, which were fully disbursed by April 2, 1992.
Two executing agencies were involved in the project, the Trust Funds for Agriculture (FIRA)
and the Trust Fund for Credit in Irrigated and Rainfed Areas (FICART).
The comments made by the executing agencies are reflected below.
A.    FIRA
1. Introduction
This is the ninth in a series of World Bank loans to the Government of Mexico to finance
agricultural credits granted by the commercial banks. The sole executing agency for the first eight
loans was FIRA. FICART was also involved as an executor for discounting credits made by
BANRURAL.
2. Project Objectives and Description
The objectives described in detail in Part I of this report that were included in the loan request
prepared by FIRA in 1985 reflect its continuing efforts to use credit as a means for improving living
conditions in the agriculture sector. Thus, overall objectives included increasing output and
productivity, which are difficult to ascribe to any one factor, such as credit, since agricultural
activities are subject to circumstances beyond human control and to the ups and downs of the world
economy.
However, the specific objectives regarding accredited borrowers were very clearly delineated
(income levels, productivity, etc.) and were continuously evaluated by FIRA through its SERC
(System for the Evaluation of the Results of the Loan). The reports for each phase were submitted to
the World Bank.
In this connection, the ninth project was designed to achieve certain targets with regard to the
accredited producers. To this end, the farm models were formulated and used as a basis for deriving
the physical targets.
3. Project Implementation
FIRA executed the part corresponding to it in accordance with the legal documents. All
ejidatarios included in the disbursement requests were considered PBIs on the basis of their income,
and therefore eligible to receive credit under preferential terms.



- 31 -
The productive support component was carried out as planned, giving preference to those
disciplines identified as having greatest impact, in both demonstration centers as well as training. As
FIRA was beginning large-scale use of computers, training made its personnel more productive, with
a 67% increase in real terms in discounts from 1987 to 1991, a trend that has continued until the
present time without an increase in the number of staff.
The demonstration centers stressed modern production techniques making efficient use of
resources, primarily water and energy. The comparative advantages of products highly competitive
abroad, such as fruits and tropical crops, were demonstrated.
FIRA also granted fellowships to 36 specialists to obtain their master's degrees (34 in the
country and intensive course in English and one master's degree abroad, Table 1) in disciplines such
as business administration, economics, computer science and animal production. In addition, 43
events were attended abroad by 121 people in various specialties of interest to the institution (Table
2). From 1987 to 1989, 257 training courses were given and attended by 3,907 people. Seventeen of
those courses were for administrative personnel, 124 were for technical specialists, 69 for external
advisers and 47 for 1,162 low income producers (Table 3).
Also significant is that in the period from 1987 to 1991 FIRA helped establish 62 technical
offices staffed with 591 specialists, whose technical assistance can be engaged by producers.
With regard to the construction of FIRA's headquarters building, this was decided at a very
particular moment, when the Federal Government was increasing its efforts to decentralize many of
its departments, given the problems caused by the 1985 earthquakes.
The World Bank was therefore approached to help finance construction of the building. The
intention was always that the headquarters were to be moved to an area with an agricultural tradition,
good roads system and community infrastructure for staff.
Morelia was selected on the basis of its proximity and the fact that the state government
donated slightly more than 28 ha to FIRA.
All competitive bidding was carried out in a strict accordance with the rules, and all events
were attended by a representative of the Secretariat of the Office of the Federal Controller General
(SECOGEF).
The works were supervised properly at all times and built in accordance with standards
decided by FIRA during the competitive bidding process and corroborated by personnel contracted by
the World Bank.
4. Project Costs
FIRA was involved in the implementation of 80% of the project (US$736.1 million), of which
US$721.2 million was for credit and US$14.9 million for productive support, including US$10
million for the construction of the headquarters building.



- 32 -
In the credit component, US$580.7 million (79%) was used for capital investment and
US$140.5 million (19%) for working capital. This latter figure was higher than expected as a result of
the need to keep the productive plant in operation during a period of major liquidity problems.
FIRA's outlays for supplementary services were substantially greater, and the World Bank
was asked to finance only the main activities.
5. Results
As mentioned in Part 1, the benefits expected from the project, such as number of
beneficiaries, creation of jobs, increase in income and in production by FIRA accredited borrowers,
were fully achieved (see reports of FIRA's System for Evaluation of the Results of the Loan).
It is difficult to quantify overall benefits, because agricultural production does not depend
solely on the availability of financing. Nevertheless, put negatively, if those funds had not been
available, the agricultural situation would have been worse.
Other indirect results, such as reforms to the agricultural credit system, can be attributed to
the project, although based on the experience obtained by the World Bank, in any upcoming project,
the usual conditionality applied only to appraise was excessive, since changes cannot be made rapidly.
We agree that one the achievements is the maintenance of FIRA's assets in real terms, as well
as making government transfers to finance the gap in FIRA's interest rates transparent.
In summary, given the results analyzed here and the changes and adjustments to Mexico's
rural finance sector, in addition to those that may occur in the near future feel strongly that the World
Bank should continue supporting the primary sector of the economy with this type of project, which
has a more direct impact on the agricultural producer.
6. Final Comments
(a) After a review of the information in Part 111, we find that the data provided have been
used. It might be useful to disaggregate certain tables to show what was accomplished by each
executing agency.
(b) The analysis in Part I is fairly clear and, except for the minor corrections and comments
made separately, is a faithful reflection of the real situation (the views of SHCP and FICART have
yet to be made known).
(c) During project implementation, the Bank was more interested in suggesting that the
Government make changes to its agricultural credit policy. We feel that more frequent contact with
the executing agencies would have been much more useful on both sides.
(d) In our view, the Bank acted as if this were a sectoral loan and not an agricultural credit
loan. It placed greater importance on the aspects concerning macroeconomic policy and had very
little contact with the executing agencies, which in similar previous projects had generated excellent
institutional results.



- 33 -
TABLE 1
NATIONAL MASTER'S AND POST-GRADUATE DEGREES
DISBURSED UNDER IBRD LOAN 2837-ME IN 1987 AND 1988
DISCIPLINE*                              No. of Persons
Plant Pathology                                  1
Business Administration                         8
Administration of Agricultural Businesses       6
Economics                                       4
Administrative Economics                        2
Animal Production Science                       2
Planning and Systems                             1
Administration - Specialization in Finance      4
Computer Science                                 1
Management Science                               1
Fruit Growing                                    1
Dairy Production                                 1
Applied Computer Science                         1
Licenciatura in Accounting                       1
Intensive Course in English **                   1
Economic and Financial Management ***            1
TOTAL                                           36
*     The disciplines given are for the master's level, in accordance with the records of the
Division of Technical Specialization and Rural Training.
**    A three-month program
***    Master's in Spain



- 34 -
TABLE 2
BANK OF MEXICO - FIRA
COURSES, SEMINARS AND FACT-FINDING TRIPS ABROAD
UNDER IBRD LOAN 2837-ME
No. events  No. people   Name
1           2       XI National Annual Convention, ANIERM Chemical Group
1           2       International Conference on Textile Crops (Bogota)
1           4       Sharing the British Experience in Training
1           2       IX Brazilian Congress on Fruit Growing
1           1       Computers-DEC World '87
1           1       Leadership Seminar (Washington, D.C.)
3           3       Intensive English course
1           2       Evaluation and administration of investments (Cambridge)
1           5       XI Meeting of AMPA (Havana)
1                  Flower Exporting
1           2       Latin-American Seminar on Technology and Development
1           1       Irrigation methods (Merida, Venezuela)
1           2       International Congress on Dairy Products
.    1      2       VI Meeting on Agricultural Financing
I           1       Advanced Management College
1           2       Farm Progress Show (Chicago)
4           8        Fact-finding trips and study
1           2       CICA Meeting (Martinique)
1           2       Seminar for Flower Growers
1           1       Commercial Mission to Spain
I           I       Model (Prot.) Annual Plan for Development Banks
I           I       Advanced System Manager (Washington, D.C.)
I           I       Decnet-VAX (Washington, D.C.)
1           2       The marketing of foodstuffs in North America
1           3       Seafare Southeast 88 Seminar (Florida)
1           1       Agribusiness (Boston)
1           2       Seminar for Senior Management in Agroindustry (Boston)



- 35 -
TABLE 3
BANK OF MEXICO - FIRA
IBRD LOAN 2837-ME
INTERNAL COURSES BY SPECIALTY
Administrative                                              Hours        Anendees       Events
1.  Administrative policies and standards                      49.0            27.0         2.0
2.  Administrative services                                     5.0             9.0         1.0
3.  Secretarial development                                   162.0           105.0         7.0
4.  Fellowships                                             2,007.0            69.0         1.0
5.  FIRA Accounting                                            65.0             6.0         1.0
6.  Computer Science                                          762.0            29.0         5.0
Subtotal                                                3,011.0           245.0        17.0
PBI
1.  Agriculture                                               328.0           679.0        24.0
2.  Stockraising                                              321.0           240.0        13.0
3.  Fishing                                                    55.0            26.0         2.0
4.  Producer organization and development                     119.0           217.0         8.0
Subtotal                                                  823.0         1,162.0        47.0
Technical
1.  Agriculture                                               515.0           311.0        21.0
2.  Stockraising                                              125.0            93.0         8.0
3.  Agroindustry                                               51.0            29.0         2.0
4.  Fishing                                                    91.0            35.0         3.0
5.  Credit                                                    437.0           320.0        19.0
6.  Finance and Accounting                                    154.0            81.0         7.0
7.  Organizational & Management Development                   446.0           292.0        21.0
8.  Computer Science                                          873.0           151.0        21.0
9.  Personnel Organization & Development                      124.0           113.0         5.0
10. Postgraduate                                            5,314.0            21.0         8.0
11. Fellowships for external personnel                      3,088.0            51.0         1.0
12. Practical training                                        495.0            31.0         1.0
13. Language training                                         640.0             4.0         4.0
14. Marketing & Exports                                        34.0            25.0         3.0
Subtotal                                               12,388.0         1,557.0       124.0
PAE
1.  Agriculture                                               331.0           359.0        19.0
2.  Stockraising                                              481.0           128.0        11.0
3.  Credit                                                     74.0            56.0         5.0
4.  Personnel Organization & Development                      572.0           377.0        19.0
5.  Fellowships                                             6,471.0            23.0        15.0
Subtotal                                                7,955.0           943.0        69.0
TOTAL                                     24,167.0         3,907.0       257.0



- 36 -
B. FICART
As part of project design and the allocation of resources for the categories of items to be
financed with loan funds, it was necessary in the case of FICART to request reallocation for category
7(i) and 9(i) owing the operating procedures of the institution, which should have been designed in a
way that made it possible to attain the objectives of the loan, facilitating and not complicating its
implementation. The Bank should establish better communications with the executing entities in order
to improve project design and implementation.
The development of this project had a positive impact on the performance of the institution,
enabling it to increase the supply of credit to agricultural producers.



- 37 -
PARTII-ANNEX1
Page 1 of 6
NINTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2837-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART II
The Government of Mexico would make the following comments on the assessment
made by the World Bank in the Completion Report for the Ninth Agricultural Credit Project, Parts I
and III.
1.    EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.1   Objectives: p. ii, para. 2.
The objectives are appropriate given the macroeconomic circumstances facing the country at
the time of project appraisal and which affected the attainment of those objectives.
1.2   Implementation Experience: p. ii, para. 4
The funds for the credit component were rapidly disbursed because the Bank wanted to
participate in the overall FIRA program. However, given its magnitude, Bank involvement was very
limited (about 6%). In addition, virtually all medium- and long-term credits discounted by FIRA, as
well as new working capital loans, were eligible for financing with World Bank funds.
1.3   Implementation Experience: p. iii, para. 7
Project costs: Thie report states that the financing participation of commercial banks and
BANRURAL was less than expected. This is true, but if the data are looked at separately for FIRA,
the commercial banks provided 10.66%, somewhat more than the required 10%, for PBI credits and
18.73% for OPs. At present, for working capital loans to OPs, the commercial banks are providing
additional funds through the rnezcla program. Moreover, the participation of the commercial banks
was lower because producers' participation was higher than required: OPs funded 25.75% of their
project costs, whereas PBIs financed 12.16%.



- 38 -
PART II - ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
1.4    Results: p. iii, para. 10
Project objective: We feel that the objective of maintaining the financial integrity of the
participating executing agencies, as well as improving financial management and institutional
development, was largely achieved, even though the executing agencies were made to feel the need for
conserving or, in some cases, increasing their assets. Their operating systems were also substantially
improved, particularly in the case of FIRA, through the decentralization of functions and delegation of
authority to the banking system, without losing control over the channeling of resources.
1.5   Institutional Development: p. iv, para. 13
Borrower: (a) The possible failures on the part of FIRA regarding the construction of the
headquarters building are attributable less to FIRA than to compliance with regulations governing
public works, which almost invariably leads to similar situations. Moreover, the World Bank always
insisted on awarding contracts to the lowest bidder. Accepting higher bids would not have been
satisfactory to either the Government or the World Bank.
(b) With regard to the productive support component, FIRA has always properly monitored its
training and demonstration activities and is improving the ex-post evaluation of training.
(c) As regards the unwillingness to provide the Bank with the data collected during the second
phase of the Agricultural Financial Subsector Study, in actuality this was not a result of unwillingness,
but it was simply not stated in the Loan Agreement or in the Project Agreement that there was an
obligation to provide such data to the Bank.
1.6   Findings and Lessons Learned: p. v, para. 17
Agricultural credit and policy reforms: (c) We do not agree totally that government institutions
should be managed along commercial lines, or their existence would not be justified. The government
is involved precisely because of market imperfections; certain sectors of the economy will always
require preferential support in order to avoid social conflicts or greater inequalities.
1.7   Findings and Lessons Learned: p. v, para. 19
Civil works construction: Plans for the construction of FIRA headquarters were prepared far
before loan appraisal and were known to the Bank appraisal mission, although the mission felt at the
time that Bank involvement was not feasible. During negotiations, the Mexican delegation insisted on
the need for funding of the building and after extensive discussion, a limited amount was approved.



- 39 -
PARTII-ANNEXI
Page 3 of 6
It should be stressed that the Bank was aware of all bidding documents in due course and made no
formal objections.
1.8   Findings and Lessons Learned: p. vi, para. 20
Contractors: We agree that works should be contracted after a thorough analysis of the
financial position and other conditions of the firms, instead of considering only the amount of the bid.
This is one reason why Mexico is in favor of each country having model documents that
clearly establish appraisal criteria.
2.    PART I
2.1    Background: p. 2, para. 4
The Government policies that discouraged involvement of the commercial banks in agricultural
financing should be clarified.
We can show, however, that the Government has established various procedures and
arrangements for stimulating the involvement of commercial banks. Such is the case of FIRA and its
broad range of support services. In their time, guaranteed prices also had this as one of their
objectives, although the banks had the security that their borrowers could sell their crops at a
predetermined price, etc.
2.2   Project Objectives and Description: p. 2, para. 6
FIRA and FICART are not Central Bank rediscount windows, but autonomous agencies.
FIRA is under the Central Bank, but does not act as a window for it, although it can receive financing
from it. FICART in part depends on BANRURAL.
2.3   Project Design and Implementation: p. 3, para. 10
Project genesis: As part of project design and the allocation of resources for the categories of
items to be financed with loan funds, it was necessary in the case of FICART to request reallocation
for category 7(i) and 9(i) owing to the operating procedures of the institution, which should have been
designed in a way that made it possible to attain the objectives of the loan, facilitating and not
complicating its implementation. The Bank should establish better communications with the executing
entities in order to improve project design and implementation.



- 4n -
PART II- ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 6
2.4    Key Issues Discussed During Preparation: p. 4, para. 16
Credit policies: Clarify that the rates in the last line refer solely to PBIs. FIRA's rates
ranged from 95 % of CETES for PBI equipment loans to CETES + 8 points for OP working capital
loans.
2.5   Project Implementation: p. 6, para. 20 [para. 21 of final PCR]
Definition of PBI: Although SHCP required all ejidatarios to be considered PBIs, FIRA and
bank experts always calculated their net income, which served as a basis in determining eligibility
under the World Bank loan. In the overall statistics for the FIRA, all ejidatarios appear as PBIs,
although the World Bank was sent only information on those eligible. In complying with the Bank's
request that the loan portfolio be reviewed, FIRA did not find evidence that there were any ejidatarios
with income greater than 1,000 times the minimum wage, and as such it was not necessary to amend
the figures.
2.6   Project Implementation: p. 6, para. 21 [para. 22 of final PCR]
FIRA's insistence on its own definition of PBI based on the loss of purchasing power of the
minimum wage meant that many PBIs are now considered OPs. The statement that 80% of the rural
population have income below 1,000 times the minimum wage is not true, since FIRA's target
population is not the entire rural population (workers, farm laborers, the landless, etc.), but those who,
under certain conditions, could receive credit, and whose characteristics are entirely different.
2.7   Project Implementation: p. 8, para. 31 [para. 69 of final PCR]
Productive support component: FIRA provided timely information on those who had received
academic degrees financed by the project. The pertinent information is attached.
2.8   Project Implementation: p. II, para. 47 [sentence deleted in final PCR]
Compliance with loan covenants: It should be clarified that the participating banks' financing
contributions in subloans to PBls were at least 10% and 20% to OPs, in the report these figures are
reversed.
2.9   Project Implementation: p. 12, para. 52 [para. 42 of final PCR]
Project costs and financing: It might have been useful to separate the statistics into two
subprojects: subproject A - FIRA; subproject B - FICART. (The tables for FIRA are attached.)



- 41 -
PARTII-ANNEX1
Page 5 of 6
2.10  Institutional Performance: p. 18, para. 78 [para. 77 offinal PCR]
The Borrower: Timely action was taken. The contract was rescinded as a last resort, after the
advantages and disadvantages of that decision were weighed. Initially, the period of the contract was
extended so as to avoid the legal implications of recision.
Nor can we consider the monitoring system for the productive support component inadequate,
since in the case of FIRA the monitoring made possible regular reporting (every month) on progress
in demonstrations as well as training, number of participants, areas, disciplines, depth, level, etc.
2.11 Project Relationship: p. 19, para. 79 [para. 78 of final PCR]
It is important to point out that the executing agency was FICART and not BANRURAL,
which is why a review of the latter was not necessary. Regarding the Agricultural Financial Sector
Study, the Government was not able to share that information because it had not yet been analyzed.
2.12 Annex A
Operating performance of the executing agencies, para. 5
FIRA's operations: The system for the payment of guarantees and reimbursement of technical
assistance costs was totally revamped. Copies of the circulars and operating regulations regarding the
changes were submitted to the Bank (see copies).
3.    PART III
3.1   Statistical Information: p. 34, Table 1
In Table 1 (Related Bank Loans), the title of the Forestry Development Project should read
Loan 3115-ME instead of Loan 3315-ME.
3.2   Statistical Information: p. 38, Table 4, p. 1
The figures in Table 4, p. 1 (Total Project Costs) are estimates based on reviews of FICART
disbursement requests, since it was not possible to calculate the figures precisely owing to a lack of
sufficient reliable information, as, on the one hand, the final reconciliation of project figures with
NAFIN is pending and, on the other, there are discrepancies in FICART's requests for funds for
onlending and the Bank was not informed of subprojects that were rejected. Consequently, based



- 42 -
PARTII-.ANNEX1
Page 6 of 6
solely on our reviews, we derived the final amounts for each activity and type of credit in subloans
cofinanced with Loan proceeds.
3.3   Statistical Information: p. 42, Table 7, p. 1
The data not shown in Table 7 (Direct Benefits) cannot be obtained from FICART's Credit
Information System.



- 43 -
PART III: STATISTICAL DATA                               PART 1II
Table 1
Page 1 of 1
MEXICO
IX AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan 2837-ME
Related Bank Loans
Loan                                                        Date of
Title                          Purpose                     Approval         Status
Agricultural      Credit program to promote greater private sector  4/19/83   Project completed
Marketing I (Loan   participation in the modernization of the food          and closed on
2262-ME) a        distribution system.                                      12/30/89
Eighth and Eighth   To continue to strengthen FIRA's institutional
Interim           framework for efficiently allocation of financial  6/27/84   Projects closed on
Agricultural      resources, improve agricultural sector policy by  and     09/30/88 and
Credit Projects   reducing interest rate subsidies and restrict them  7/23/85   09/30/87,
(Loans 2454-ME    to special target groups, and increase agricultural       respectively
and 2610-ME) _/   productivity and production.
Forestry          Improving environmental protection; increasing  8/29/89   Under
Development       productivity and efficiency of forestry activities in     implementation
Project (Loan     Durango and Chihuahua; improving the quality of
3115-ME) c/       life, specially of the Amerindian communities; and
strengthening the management and coordination
capability of federal and state forestry and
conservation institutions.
a/ This loan was a credit project with part of the funds also channeled through FIRA.
b/ Previous agricultural credit projects.
c/ This loan includes a FIRA/FICART line of credit component for forest producers (representing about 53 % of
total project costs) to finance the purchase of equipment for logging, transport, road maintenance and wood
processing and to provide working capital for operations.
Source: Project Files.



- 44 -
PART III
Table 2
Page 1 of 2
MEMCO
LX AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan 2837-ME
Proiect Timetable
Item                Date Planned       Date Revised         Date Actual
Identification (Executive                                         02/05/85; 08/07/85;
Project Summary)                                                   01/10/86
Preparation                                                        06/17/85
Appraisal Mission            03/85               11/85             11/25/85
Post-Appraisal Updating                                            05/04/87
Mission                                                           _
Negotiations                                                       11/86 and 05/87
Board Approval               07/85               06/87             06/16/87
Loan Signature                                                     07/31/87
Loan Effectiveness           09/30/87            10/29/87          08/28/87
Loan Closing                 06/30/91           06/30/92          06/30/92
Loan Completion              12/31/90            12/31/91          12/31/91
Comments: The following are the most important issues emerging during project preparation/appraisal and
implementation:
Preparation/Appraisal: (a) reduction of about 50% in real terms in PBI subsidies; (b) redefinition of the PBI
category; (c) direct participation of BANRURAL through FICART; (d) an agricultural financial subsector study
to quantify financial sector subsidies in agriculture; (e) financial self-sustainability of FIRA and FICART;
(f) portfolio arrears of the commercial banking system.
Project Implernentation: (a) compliance with GIRA; and (b) adequate analysis of the results of the agricultural
financial subsector study. Several other issues were raised within the context of this project and the preparation
of the Rural Financial Subsector: (a) self-sustainability of government agricultural credit institutions; losses of
the BANRURAL system; (c) inefficiencies of ANAGSA; (d) access to credit for small farmers; (e) true cost of
commercial bank intermediation in agricultural financing through FIRA, etc.



- 45 -
PART m
Table 2
Page 2 of 2
MEXICO
IX AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan 2837-ME
Project Schedule
Quarter  E234 ]¶   I213F I41    E
Year       1985       1986   1987    1988       1989    1990    1991        1992
Identification                   3
Preparation
AppraisaL Mission                i>>>>>j
Post-AppraisaL Mission                                     l
cont inued
Loan Negotiations              |l  >>>>>: >>>>>>> 3I
Board Approval
Signature Date
Date of Effectiveness                                  I
CompLetion Date
CLosing Date                                                                               ia>>>>>>>
Year      1985     1986      198      1988     1989    1990       1991     1992
Suarter ched41ed3 Slippage:  >3 A                                   21
Scheduled: *-Slippage:  > > > >                                 Actual:E



- 46 -
PART III
Table 3
Page 1 of 1
MEXICO
IX AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan 2837-ME
CUMULATIVE ESTIlMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(In million of US$)
Cumulative Disbursements                   WORLD BANK FISCAL YEARS                   |
(As of June 30)           1988       1989       1990       1991      1992
Appraisal Estimate                   150.0     250.0      360.0      400.0      _
% of Total                           37.5       62.5       90.0      100.0
Actual                               173.9     371.4      389.9      395.4      400.0
% of Total                           43.5       92.8       97.5       98.9      100.0
Actual as % of Estimate              115.9     148.6      108.3       98.9
Date of Final Disbursement:      April 2, 1992
Source: World Bank MIS Disbursement Report.
Estimated vs. Actual Disbursements
Loan 2837-ME
400_
350/
r 300-
'9
m 250                F
200.
10 FY88   FY89       FY90      FY91       FY92
W.id Sae    FW,u Y-
|-   -Estimated  --w    Actual l



- 47 -
PART III
Table 4
Page 1 of 2
NIEXICO
IX AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan 2837-ME
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
(US$ Million)
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE                 ACTUAL COSTS
INVESTMENT CATEGORY               Local    Foreign     Total
Costs     Costs      Costs       FIRA      FICART        Total
CREDIT
Productive Investments 1/                542.0      362.0      904.0       580.7      134.2        714.9
A. Low-income producers
Crops                                140.0       95.0      235.0        108.1       88.9        197.0
Livestock                            106.0       70.0       176.0        96.1       33.5        129.6
Agroindustries 2/                     25.0        16.0      41.0         33.8        8.3         42.1
Subtotal                           271.0       181.0      452.0       238.0      130.8        368.8
B. Other producers
Crops                                132.0       89.0      221.0        115.7        2.9        118.6
Livestock                            114.0       76.0       190.0       166.0        0.5        166.5
Agroindustries 2/                     25.0        16.0      41.0         61.0        0.0         61.0
Subtotal                            271.0      181.0      452.0       342.7        3.4        346.1
Working Capital Loans 1/                  48.0       32.0       80.0       140.5       49.3         189.8
A. Low-incomeproducers                    24.0       16.0       40.0        69.4       49.0         118.4
B. Other producers                        24.0       16.0       40.0        71.1        0.2         71.3
Total Credit                             590.0      394.0      984.0       721.2      183.4        904.6
PRODUCTIVE SUPPORT  1/                    10.0        6.0       16.0         4.9        0.5          5.4
CONSTRUCTION OF FIRA HQTS. 3/               -          -          -         10.0         -           10.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                      600.0      400.0    1,000.0       736.1      183.9         920.0
1/ Total costs as presented in Annex 1 of the SAR and Schedule A of President's Report.
Schedule B of the same report shows the following cost allocations:
Total      Bank
Cost    Financing
Productive Investments                           785.00     314.00
Working Capital Loans                            192.50      77.00
Civil Works & Equipment                           16.00       5.75
Services                                          6 50        3.25
Total       1,000.00    400.00
2/ Includes fisheries.
3/ Bank estimate.
Source: Staff Appraisal & President's Report; direct information from FIRA and FICART.



- 48 -
PART m
Table 4
Page 2 of 2
MEICO
IX AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan 2837-ME
PRODUCTIVE SUPPORT SERVICES COMPONENT
Total Costs
(US$ Million)
FIRA              FICART               TOTAL
Appraisal          Appraisal            Appraisal
Estimate   Actual  Estimate  Actual   Estimate  Actual
Annual Training                                       5.0       4.1       1.0       0.0         6.0      4.1
Technical and support staff training                 3.0      2.9       0.4       0.0          3.4      2.9
Special programs and small-scale producers           0.9     - 0.9       0.4      0.0          1.3      0.9
Overseas graduate programs                           0.7       0.2      0.1       0.0          0.8      0.2
cal graduate programs                                0.4       0.1       0.1      0.0          0.5      0.1
Technical Assistance                                  5.0       0.8       2.5       0.5          7.5     1.3
Demonstration Centers, Directors of Production
(including vehicles and equipment)                4.7       0.8       2.3       0.0         7.0      0.8
Consultants 1/                                       0.3       0.0       0.2      0.5          0.5      0.5
Subtotal                                              10.0      4.9       3.5       0.5        13.5      5.4
Physical contingencies                                     ---            ---       ---         0.6
Price contingencies                                   ---                                        1.9      -
TOTAL                                                  ---      4.9                 0.5         16.0     5.4
Source: Staff Appraisal Report, FIRA and FICART.
1/ Actual figures include consultants hired by the Ministry of Finance (SHCP) to carry out the Agricultural Financial
Subsector Study; thc cost of this study was not part of the total project costs estimated at appraisal.



-  49   -                                              PART I1
Table 5
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
IX AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan 2837-ME
PROJECT COSTS BY SOURCE OF FINANCING
Planned         Revised          Revised
SOURCE                                Loan Agreement October 19, 1988 April 17, 1989    Actual b/
(USS n)   %    (US5 m)   %    (USS m)   %   (USS n)   %
EBRD a/                                                             400.00 100.0%   400.00 100.0%   400.00  100.   400.00 100.0%
at. 1: Medium- and Long-Term Subloan made by Bauxico
(i) to Category I Beneficiaries                                   83.70  20.9%    89.31  22.3%   117.31 29.3%   117.31  29.3%
(u) to Category 2 Beneficiaries                                   138.10  34.5%   148.16  37.0%   120.16 30.0%   121.78  30.4%
Cat. 2: Medium- and Long-Term Subloas made under PVP by Banxico
(i) to Category I Bcneficiaries                                    7.00    1.8%     1.39   0.3 %     1.39  0.3 %    1.39   0.3%
(i) to Category 2 Beneficiaries                                    11.70   2.9%     1.64   0.4%      1.64  0.4%      1.64   0.4%
at. 3: Short-Term Subloans made by Banxico
(3) to Category I Beneficiariae                                   16.00   4.0%    26.00   6.5%    26.00  6.5%    26.00   6.5%
(ii) to Category 2 Beneficiaries                                   16.00   4.0%    26.00   6.5%    26.00  6.5%    26.00   6.5%
Cat. 4: Civil works and equipment under Part C (a) of the Projet       2.00   0.5 %    2.00   0.5%      1.20  0.3 %     0.56   0. 1%
Cat. 5: Civil works and equipment under Part F of the Project          3.00   0.8%     3.00   0.8%      3.00  0.8%      1.42   0.4%
at. 6: Conultants services and training under Part. C(i) and D(i)    2.50   0.6%      2.50   0.6%      3.30  0.8%     3.30   0.8%
Cat. 7: Medium- and Long-Term Subloas made by Baurual
(i) to Category I Beneficiaries                                   53.80  13.5%    73.55  18.4%    72.80 18.2%    73.64  18.4%
(ii) to Category 2 Beneficiaries                                   13.45   3.4%      1.45    0.4%    1.45  0.4%      1.42    0.4%
Cat. 8: Medium- and Long-Term Subloan made under PVP by Banrural
(i) to Category I Beneficiaries                                    5.00    1.3%     0.00   0.0%     0.00  0.0%      0.00   0.0%
(ii) to Category 2 Beneficiaries                                    1.25   0.3%     0.00   0.0%      0.00  0.0%      0.00   0.0%
Cat. 9: Short-Term Subloans made by Banrural
(i) to Category I Beneficiaries                                    4.00    1.0%    24.87   6.2%    24.87  6.2%    24.87   6.2%
(ii) to Category 2 Beneficiaries                                    1.00   0.3%     0.13   0.0%      0.13   0.0%     0.13    0.0%
Cat. 10: Civil works and equipment under Part C(ii) of the Project     0.75   0.2%     0.00   0.0%      0.00  0.0%      0.00   0.0%
Cat. 11: Consutants' aervices and training under Parts C(ii) and D(iu)  0.75   0.2%    0.00   0.0%      0.75  0.2%      0.47   0.1%
Cat. 12: Unallocated                                                  40.00  10.0%     0.00   0.0%      0.00  0.0%      0.00   0.0%
BRD                                                                  400.0  40.0%                                     400.0  43.8%
- FIRA c/                                                          300.0                                            299.9
- FICART                                                           100.0                                             99.6
- SHCP                                                                                                                0.5
- Other d/                                                                                                            0.1
ENFFICIARIES                                                        144.0  14.4%                                      160.4  17.6%
- FIRA                                                                                                              143.6
- FICART                                                                                                             16.8
ARTICIPATING BANKS                                                   144.0  14.4%                                      88.2   9.7%
- FIRA                                                                                                               86.4
- FICART (BANRURAL)                                                                                                   1.8
Government ot Mexico                                                  312.0  31.2%                                     264.2  28.9%
-FIRA el                                                                                                            198.3
FICART                                                                                                              65.9
OTAL FINANCNG tbrough:                                             1 000.0 100.0%                                     912.8 100.0%
- FIRA                                                                                                              728.2  79.8%
- FICART                                                                                                            184.1  20.2%
-SHCP                                                                                                                 0.5   0.1%
a/ By category of disbursement, Schedule I of the Loan Agreement.
b/ Actual figures for IBRD are actual amounts disbursed according to Report LOA 1060, EBRD Loan Department.
Actual figures for beneficiaries, participating bans, FIRA and FICART were provided by FIRA and FICART respectively.
c/ Includes S0.5 rmillion in funds recieved by FIRA but disbursed against a category assigned to FICART.
d/ USS69,583 correspond to foreign exchange losses.
e/ Does not include counterpart fuancing for FIRA beadquartes building.



- 50 -
PART III
Table 5
Page 2 of 2
MEXICO
IX AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan 2837-ME
FINANCING OF CREDIT COMPONENT
BY EXECUTING AGENCY AND CLASS OF PRODUCERS
1. FIRA
Low-Income Producers   Other Producers           TOTAL
SOURCE               US$ million       %     US$ million  |        US$ million  |%
Total FIRA Discounts                    241.2        89         250.0      81         491.2      85
Financed with FIRA funds               96.5         36         100.0     33         196.5      34
Financed with IBRD funds              144.7         54        150.0      49         294.7      51
Commercial Banks                         28.8        11          57.6      19          86.4      15
Total Value of Subloans                 270.0       100         307.6    100          577.6    100
Producers Contribution                   37.4        12         106.2      26         143.6     20
Total Subproject Costs                  307.4       100         413.8 5    100        721.2    100
Source: FIRA.
2. FICART
Low-Income Producers   Other Producers           TOTAL
SOURCE               US$ million       9     US$ million      %    USS million      %
Total FICART Discounts                  161.8        99           3.0      99         164.8      99
Financed with FICART funds             64.7         40           1.2     39          65.9      40
Financed with IBRD funds               97.1        59            1.8     60          98.9      59
BANRURAL                                  1.8         1           0.0       1           1.8       1
Total Value of Subloans                 163.6       100           3.1    100          166.6    100
Producers Contribution                   16.3         9           0.6      16          16.8      9
Total Subproject Costs                  179.8       100           3.6    100          183.4    100
Source: FICART.



- 51 -
PART III
Table e
Page I of 1
MEXICO
IX AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan 2837-ME
CREDIT COMPONENT
Distribution of Loan Resources by Category of Beneficiary
Appraisal Estimate   Actual    Actual        TOTAL
USS mill.   %        FIRA     FICART      US$ mill.      %
Investment Loane                        314.0      80.3    242.1        75.1        317.2      80.5
a. Low-income producers                 157.0      40.2    118.7        73.8        192.3      48.8
b. Other Producers                      157.0      40,2    123.4         1.4        124.8      31.7
Working Capital Loans                    77.0      19.7      52.0       25.0         77.0      19.5
a. Low-income producers                  38.5       9.8      26.0       24.9         50.9      12.9
b. Other producers                       38.5       9.8      26.0        0.1         26.1       5.6
TOTAL      391.0    100.0    294.1        100.1        394.2     100.0
Low Income Producers                    195.5      50.0    144.7        98.5        243.2      61.7
Other Producers                         195.5      50.0    149.4         1.5        151.0      38.3
Sources: Loan Documents and World Bank Disbursement Department, Report LOAl 060.
Dlstribution of Loan Resources by Type of Investment
Actual    Actual      TOTAL
FIRA    FICART   US$ mill. |_%_|
Investment Loans                                 245.00     74.60     319.60         80.6
a. Low-income producers                          119.90     73.20     193.10         48.7
Crops                                          55.50     52.00     107.50          27.1
Livestock                                      47.50     16.70      64.20         16.2
Agroindustries 1/                              16.90      4.50      21.40          5.4
b. Other Producers                               125.10      1.40     126.50         31.9
Crops                                          46.70      1.23      47.93          12.1
Lvestock                                       62.50      0.14      62.64          15.8
Agroindustries 1/                              15.90      0.03      15.93           4.0
Working Capital Loans                             51.90     25.00      76.90         19.4
a. Low-income producers                           26.90     24.90      51.80         13.1
b. Other producers                                25.00      0.10      25.10          8.3
TOTAL               296.90     99.60     396.50        100.0
1/ Includes fisheries.
Note: Figures provided by FIRA and FICART differ from those actually disbursed from each category.
The difference is partly explained because NAFIN erroneously submitted a US$500,000
disbursement application for FIRA to be charged to a disbursement category assigned to FICART.
Source: FIRA and FICART, direct information.



- 5 2 -                              PR  i
PART III
Table 7
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
IX AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan 2837-ME
Direct Benefits
Appraisal    Actual (estimated)
Unit   Estimate    FIRA      FICART       Total
Number of Beneficiaries        Families     100,000    62,690     127,746   190,436
Individuals   550,000   344,796   523,604   868,400
Number of Additional Jobs Created Jobs      240,000   172,398         NA        NA
Appraisal    Actual (estimated)
INVESTMENT PLANS                       Unit  Estimate       FIRA     FICART
Rainfed Annual Crops Farm 1/
No. of ha per subloan                          ha         160         130       213
No. of Beneficiaries per subloan 2/                         8          10        46
Yields
Maize                                        t/ha        2.5         2.6       2.5
Sorghum                                     tVha         3.4         3.0       4.3
Beans                                        t/ha        1.1         0.9       0.7
Estimated Net Benefits at
Full Development (inc. labor) 3/             US$      20,000      10,160       NA
Irrigated Annual Crops 4/
No. of ha per subloan 5/                       ha         170         160       129
No. of Beneficiaries per subloan 6/                        17          10        57
Yields
Cotton                                       t/ha        2.9         2.9       1.7
Wheat                                       tVha         4.5         5.0       4.1
Sorghum                                     tVha         5.2         5.1       4.6
Soybean           _           -              tha         2.3         2.0       1.5
Safflower                                    t/ha        1.9         NA        NA
Beans                                       tVha         1.7         1.4       1.1
Estimated Net Benefits at
Full Development (inc. labor) 4/             US$      45,300      50,600       NA
NA=Not available



PART IlIl
Table 7
Page 2 of 2
MEXiCO
IX AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan 2837-ME
Dlrect Benefits
(cont.)
Appraisal    Actual (estimated)
INVESTMENT PLANS                                   Unit    Estimate          FIRA        FICART
Beef Cattle Ranching
No. of ha per subloan (single-owner operation)              ha             50              47          75
Carrying capacity
at Full Development                                     AU/ha              2            1.15         1.4
Live weight of mature steers                             kg/head          430             NA          425
Steers sold 5/                                            head              -              14
Estimated Net Benefrts at
Full Development 9/                                       US$          3,500          4,640        4,000
Dual Purpose Cattle Ranching 10/
No. of ha per subloan                                       ha            140            208           70
No. of Beneficiaries per subloan  11/                                      20              12          18
Carrying capacity                                         AU/ha              2           1.09          1.6
Total number of cows in production                        heads             89             90          65
Milk production                                         It/lactation    1,080            880          840
Calving rate                                                %              90              91          70
Weight gain of fattening steers                           kg/day        0.365             NA         0.45
Steers sold                                                head                            34       n.a.
Estimated Net Benefits at
Full Development (inc. labor) 12/                         US$        21,500          19,272      17,000
Sources: Staff Appraisal Report, direct information from FIRA and FICART.
The following notes apply to iPRA's reported benefits only (exchange rate US$1 =Mex$3,150):
1/ 1991 data taken from a sample of productive units with rainfed crops only.
2/ Arithmetc average of grouped PBI productive units.
3/ Net benefits of annual crops of productive units plus benefits of family labor.
4/ 1991 data taken from a sample of productve units with irrigated crops only.
5/ Assumes that the irrigated area is used 1.6 btmes per year.
6/ Includes net benefits of productve units with annual crops plus benefits of family labor.
7/ 1991 data taken from a subsample of meat producing units with an area of less than 100 has.
8/ Data available only for the number of heads sold.
9/ Includes net benefits of productive units plus those of family labor related to catle raising.
Production is based on un pie de cria promedio de 22 vacas.
10/ 1991 data taken from a subsample of cattde raising productve units.
11/ Arithmetic average of grouped PSI productve units.
12/ Includes net benefits of productive units plus those related to family labor.
NA= Not available



- 54 -
PART m
Table 8
Page 1 of 1
MEXICO
IX AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan 2837-ME
Studies
Studies                  Purpose                            Impact
Carry out an      Identifying problem areas,       The analysis provided in the study
Agricultural      clarifying policy issues and     was weak; however, discussions
Sector Study and   formulating specific            during its preparation provided the
submit            recommendations for near-term    basis for the reforms introduced in
recommendations   actions to assist in reducing credit  the sector since 1990, namely, the
to the Bank on    and crop insurance subsidies, in    abolition of ANACSA, the
January 31, 1988  improving the efficiency of the   restructuring of BANRURAL, and
and implement    rural financial systems, and in   the recent introduction of a new
recommendations  increasing domestic resource      incentive scheme for increased
starting March    mobilization.                    commercial bank lending to PBIs.
31, 1988                                           However, it is difficult to conclude
that the study per se met pre-
project expectations. Further
discussions between the Bank and
the Government on the need to
reform the rural financial system
were carried out simultaneously as
part of the preparation of the then
proposed Rural Financial
Subsector Project.
Source: Project files.



- 55 -
PART III
Table 9
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
IX AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan 2837-ME
Status of Loan Covenants
Covenant                   Description of Condition           |      Status of Compliance
Financial and On-Lending Covenants
GA 3.03           Interest rates on agricultural credit to comply with  After protracted negotiations,
GIRA                                             the GOM complied with GIRA.
Since 1988, interest rates have
been positive for all agricultural
credit lines.
GA 2.03           Government to prevent capital erosion on FIRA and    Complied with
FICART from 1986 levels
BXPA 2.02 (d)    BANXICO to suspend eligibility of participating bank   Complied with; participating
if arrears of subloans discounted with FIRA exceed  banks reported on arrears semi-
15 % of the aggregate outstanding amount of such  annually; the ratio of arrears to
loans                                            the aggregate outstanding
amount of subloans never
exceeded 15 %. This ratio was
not a good choice as indicator
of the quality of the portofio of
the participating intermediaries,
as rescheduled, refinanced, and
restructured loans are obviously
excluded, especially because
loan restructuring and
refinancing had been identified
as a major problem during
project preparation.
BXPA and          Category I beneficiary (PBIs): beneficiaries'     Not fully complied with. On
BAPA Schedules,  contribution, 10% of the cost of subprojects;      the FICART side of the Project,
para. 1.3         participating banks', 10% of the subloan financed;  BANRURAL only contributed with
maximum FIRA's rediscount proportion, 90%.        1% and beneficiaries with 9%.
Category 2 beneficiary (OPs): beneficiaries'      On the FIRA side of the Project,
contribution, 20% of the cost of subprojects;     beneficiaries' contribution were
participating banks', 20% of the subloan financed;  higher (PBI, - 12%; oPs - 26%)
FIRA's rediscount proportion, 80%.               than required. Commercial
banks' participation, on the
other hand, was lower for oPs -
19%, but higher for PuIs -
11%).



- 56 -
PART III
Table 9
Page 2 of 2
Covenant                   Description of Condition                   Status of Compliance
BXPA and          Aggregate amount of subloans to any individual not    Complied with
BAPA Schedules,  to exceed US$260,000.
para. 1.4
BXPA and          Interest rates on subloans to be governed by GIRA  Generally complied with; the
BAPA Schedules,                                                      Bank stopped disbursements
para I. 6                                                            from January-March 1988, and
granted to exceptions to GIRA
in 1988. GOM has complied
with the GIRA since August
1988.
BXPA and          Short-term subloans to be financed out of the      Complied with
BAPA Schedules,  proceeds of the loan to be incremental to FIRA's and
para. 11.4        FICART's total short-term lending for the previous
years
LA 4.03           To have the Special Account audited each fiscal year   Complied with
BXPA 4.01         BANXICO to present annual audit report of FIRA     Complied with
and the project accounts
BRPA              BANRURAL to present annual audit report of         Complied with
FICART and the project accounts
Other Covenants
GA 3.02           Carry out an Agricultural Sector Study and submit  Study was prepared but the
recommendations to the Bank on January 31, 1988   Bank considered it
and implement recommendations starting March 31,    unsatisfactory; final version
1988                                              received in August 1990
BXPA 2.05 (b)     FIRA to present semiannual reports                 Last report received June 1989;
a project completion report
covering 7/87-12/89 (98% of
loan funds had been disbursed)
was delivered to PCR mission in
September 1992.
BRPA 2.04 (b)     FICART to present semiannual reports               All reports received
LA Schedule 4     Procurement procedures and Bank review             Complied with
GiA=Guarantee Agreement, LA=Loan Agreement, BXPA= BANXICO Project Agreement, BRPA=BANRURAL
Project Agreement



- 57 -
PART I
Table 10
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
IX AGRICULTURAL CREDfT PROJECT
Loan 2837-ME
Use of Bank Resources
STAFF INPUT                  22
(weeks)           FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90   FY91   FY92    TOTAL
Through             4.3     40.4                                                           44.7
Appraisal
Appraisal through           32.7    31.9                                                   64.6
Board Approval
Board Approval                       1.4                                                   1.4
through
Effectiveness
Supervision                                  20.6     20.4      6.7      0.8    15.6       64.1
~~~ - 
TOTAL          4.3     73.1    33.3    20.6       20.4      6.7      0.8    15.6       15.6
Source: World Bank MIS.



PART III
Table 10
Page 2 . ! 2
MIEXICO
IX AGR!CULTURAL CREDIT FROJECT
Loan 2837-,ME
Use of Bank Resources
(colnt.)
MISSIONS            Date      Number    Total Staff S|oecialization    Overall
(hIlY)       of        Weeks in       represent(l  .  Status
persons      the Field                       Rating
Preparation             03/85        3               2       f, e, ae
Pre-Appraisal           10/85         1              1       f
Appraisal               11/85        5               3       f, a, :e, c, o
Full Supervision        08/87        2               4.5    tm, ae                 a/
Full Supervision        10/87        2               6       tni, f                1
Partial Supervision     11/87        2               1       tmi, c
Partial Supervision     05/88         1              1     tm
Full Supervision        09/88         1              1.5    tl-     _              2
Partial Supervision     01/89         1              1.0    ar
Partial Supervision     02/89         1              0.3    lw
Full Supervision        03/89        2               2.5    tm, c                  1
Partial Supervision     05/89         1              1       c
Partial Supervision     06/89        2               1.3    tm, c
Partial Supervision     07/91         1              0.5    ar
Partial Supervision     08/91        3               6       e, f, ae
PCR Preparation         10/92        2               2.5    pa, ar
e = economist, a = agriculturalist, ae = agricultural economist; f = financial analyst; c = credit specialist;
- ..ucr; ar   architect; lw   lawyer; o = operations assistant; pa = projects assistant
i'roject Filss.



IBRD 19728R
1'0-   ,  100-                                                      '- _-   J JT TED  STATES
U   N    I  T   E    D                   S    T    A    T    E     S                                                              EXICO
_j                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JAMAICA
d/.                                                                                                                                 BELIZE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BLZ
* _ t Q -      _                            _                             _                           _UAT%, \ > ) 5s1EMAA   ''  . NICARAGsA
7                          V                                                                                                                                      0                         EL. SALVADOR
C  fl                                                                                                                                                   - PANAMA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OSARCA--7PNM
+   ;- $)     ~~S  O  N  J" R  A   g                                                  _(, ~
------- I   Cl~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~I                                                                                                                                         OTASCA<        r-
<K)  IN                 ,-~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-I
-n, * HEQ vC~~5'L                                          o /                                                                              _______. ____.____,
e    O      § § ~~CED OEQEGn    C H I f4U A(:  EJE AS   T           H                                        ,hlF.,,
. 'v               ,,,Cy   O A H U I L A,   s1 r 
AS  CS O O  * LOS  *IS    A    X                     *           'C 2 E', NN U E V O   'a 'G
*     S                        '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  J                                          AT~~ NIk , MAA~
*CH.AHJ,AC  t  s)  Li              ssAL  E 0      N
O ce a n                     .        'LPA               CIC    DU R OA N G 0,4 
*  *CTJOBBEG     C HI~~~~~~~~~ HCT A 
V  Cat  *S            < ,'''  SIA 1N \     TAffALLIPAS
t    >  {  _~~ACATE'AS,f            Kt         .
o~~~~~~' *                               h¢ -- I- _     S >|<*APC
M E X I CUO                                                                                         _* ,A E
NINTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                  MERIDA AN  PT.
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 Ste Bondir cc*JJrf    
'-A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A1
MEX  A Co  S                                     S      x LAY   0
NINTH AL C   P                  *                                                                                      * P A   S C 0       I
NAY~~~RIT,~~~<  S                                                                                          ONUA
KILOMETERS~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~   YUCATANAT 
FIBA:                                                                                                                                                               US me
A  Regionol Offices                                   'kL0
State Offices                                                                             iOUINT  A RO
*  Agencies                                              0<                                                   L .TACRUZ CEETCBPM
Regional Boundaries                                              "'_S UA ,Ai                           *                                     r  ACYA~~
-----State Boundaries                                                                   H                      - 
-.- International Boundaries                                           ~AXACABLZ
A                         A   C                             BELIZE~~~~~~1.
0     100    200    300    400    500                                                                                                                                      GUATEMALA           -
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                        UHONDuRAS
4 ALVADC)P'B
SEPTEMBER 1986



