Report No. 23790
Report No: I074121 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/04/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: BURKINA FASO    Project ID: P074121
Project: Urban Environment Supplemental          Task Team Leader: Eustache Ouayoro
Authorized to Appraise Date: October 19, 2001     IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: March 28, 2002    IDA Amount ($m): 22.00
Managing Unit: AFTU2     Sector: US - Urban Environment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The objectives of the project are to (a) improve urban living conditions
in executing priority urban works on primary infrastructure (road,
drainage, solid waste and sanitation); (b) develop urban services directly
benefiting the low income groups; (c) promote active participation of the
urban population in urban service development, either directly, or through
beneficiary associations or elected representatives; and (d) promote
sustainability of urban environment services by supporting the
government's decentralization program and setting up new laws, regulations
and practices that would result in better land management, investment
programming and local resource mobilization.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The Supplemental Credit would finance construction of works identified
under the Infrastructure Rehabilitation component: (i) asphalting of 18
kms of roads; (ii) the needed facilities on the two landfills (garages for
trucks and landfill equipment, platforms for compost production, and
aeration equipment for leachate treatment ponds) to make them fully
operational and better protect the aquifers through improved landfill
construction methods; (iii) 58 decentralized transfer stations; (iv) 4
kms of channeling of the Wemtinga gully; and (v) tree planting and
improvement of land stretches located along the Zogona gully to prevent
occupation by squatters.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Project activities would essentially be concentrated in Ouagadougou and
Bobo Dioulasso.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments:
Works to be financed under the Supplemental Credit of PACVU:



Pavement of four urban roads in Ouagadougou, four in Bobo-Dioulasso and
planting of trees along the Zogona drainage canal: The mission reviewed
and has no comments on the TOR for this EA study, which was completed in
December 2001. The mission visited the four roads in Ouagadougou and
observed that there will be no resettlement or land acquisition needed.
There are some mobile businesses along these roads. All house owners have
titles for plots they live on and the right-of-way is very wide. At
present inhabitants are complaining of respiratory diseases because of
excessive dust. After pavement the dust problem will be largely solved and
it is expected that dust related diseases will diminish. No environmental
problems are foreseen.
Construction of the Wemtenga drainage canal in Ouagadougou: An EA (Etude
d'execution detaille et dossier d'appel d'offres des travaux d'amenagement
du canal Wemtenga a Ouagadougou, Avant-Projet Sommaire, Etude d'Impact sur
l'Environnement, BCEOM et Sahelconsult, Fevrier 2001) was carried out for
this project component. The mission reviewed the EA report and found it
satisfactory. The EA report was forwarded to the World Bank and deposited
in the Infoshop on 12/18/2001. The mission visited a large part of the
right-of-way of this proposed project component. The area is so eroded and
dangerous that people cannot live there. Also, there are no agricultural
activities near the right-of-way. There is thus no resettlement or land
acquisition needed. The positive environmental impacts will include:
faster evacuation of drainage water, less breeding places for mosquitoes
and less erosion.
Pre-collection sites for solid waste in Ouagadougou 41 and 17 in
Bobo-Dioulasso: The mission reviewed the EA report (Schema directeur de
gestion des dechets - Ville de Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso, Evaluation des
impacts environnementaux des centres de collecte de Ouagadougou, Dessau -
Soprin, Mars 2000) and found it satisfactory. This EA report was
forwarded to the World Bank and deposited in the Infoshop on 12/18/2001.
There was appropriate consultation with regard to the localization of the
58 pre-collection sites. The sites are small, around 30 by 30 meters. No
land acquisition or resettlement will be needed for these sites, because
they are already used as wild solid waste dumps. There are no households
and the sites are not being used for agriculture. The positive
environmental impacts will include: a cleaner environment in neighborhoods
and on pre-collection sites.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
-2 -



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
As indicated above, there will be no resettlement or land acquisition that
involved in implementing the activities identified under the supplemental
credit.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
NA
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
NA
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
NA
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The EIA reports and EMP are prepared by consultants and after their
approval by the Project Steering Committee, they are included in the
bidding documents. The implementation is supervised by the Project
Implementation Unit
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
An Inter-ministerial Steering Committee guides the Third Urban Project
(PACVU). The Ministry of Environment has two representatives in this
Steering Committee. This Steering Committee reviews and approves all TORs
for the EA studies, as well as the EA studies. After approval the EA
studies are routinely sent to the World Bank in Washington, where they
have been commented on by the TTL. EA studies have now also been reviewed
by ASPEN staff and found satisfactory. All available EA studies have been
sent to the Infoshop and are being disclosed in country.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
- 3-



framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      2/6/2002        2/6/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure 2/4/2002         2/4/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop   2/6/2002        2/6/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Eustache Ouayoro        2/28/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Robert Robelus   2/28/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:        Kristine M. Ivarsdotter/Person/World Bank
3/4/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Serigne Omar Fye         2/28/2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Letitia A. Obeng         2/23/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 4 -



