Report No. PID10666
Project Name                      Burkina Faso-Urban Environment Project    @
Region                            Africa
Sector                            Water & Sanitation
Project ID                        BFPE74121
Borrower                          Republic of Burkina Faso
Implementing Agency
Ministry of Public Works, Housing and Urban
Planning (Project Unit)
Contact:
Oumarou Pare
1577 Avenue Kwame Nkrumah
Ouagoudou 03, Burkina Faso
Tel: (226) 31 53 84
Fax: (226) 31 53 83
Environmental Category            B
Date this PID was prepared        September 13, 2001
Appraisal date                    October 22, 2001
Projected Board date              February 28, 2002
Country and Sector Background
1.      Burkina Faso is a poor landlocked country with a limited resource
base, high vulnerability to external shocks, and acute social needs. With a
population of nearly 12 million and growing at about 2.8 percent per annum,
Burkina Faso's GNP per capita was US$230 in 1999. Even though Burkina Faso
is one of the least urbanized countries in the region, the pace of
urbanization has been very rapid over the last 15 years. Ouagadougou, the
capital city, has a population of 1 million inhabitants and Bobo Dioulasso,
the second main urban center in the country, has a population of 500,000
inhabitants (2000). Both cities housed almost 60 percent of Burkina's urban
population and about 13 percent of the country's population. Population growth
rates are presently estimated at 4.6 percent per annum in Ouagadougou, after
falling from 9.1 percent during the 1980s to 7 percent in the 1990s.
Population growth rate has been less rapid in Bobo Dioulasso and is currently
estimated at 2.4 percent per annum.
2.      Despite Burkina Faso's average GDP growth of 5.7 percent during
1996-99, 45 percent of the population remains poor and more than two-fifths
live in extreme poverty. The objective of the CAS of November 3, 2000, is to
support the Government's efforts to achieve sustained high growth rates,
reduce the high incidence of poverty, and improve the nutrition, health, and
education of the rural population, which constitutes the largest group among
the poor. The CAS seeks to focus on the areas critical for the poor
(education, health, water supply, rural development) and on increasing
their access to basic public services, and addresses key crosscutting issues



of capacity building, gender, decentralization, and the environment.
The ongoing project is paving the way for decentralized management and
improving the overall urban environment in Ouagadougou and
Bobo Dioulasso, thus supporting both decentralization and Government's
environmental policies. This is in line with the objectives of the current
CAS.
3.      The proposed credit will supplement the ongoing Urban Environment
Project (Cr. Number 2728), and will support activities already included in the
parent project. The Urban Environment Project was approved on May 23, 1995,
for a total amount of US$49.7 million, and became effective on May 30, 1996.
Besides IDA, financing has been provided by UNDP (US$600,000), and AFD
(US$1.7 million). The current status of the project is as follows:
Infrastructure Rehabilitation:
4.      Activities related to drainage included (i) channeling of Zogona and
Wemtinga gullies in Ouagadougou and Houet gully in Bobo Dioulasso;
(ii) drainage networks simulation studies in both cities; and
(iii) preparation (in Ouagadougou) and actualization (in Bobo Dioulasso) of
drainage master plans are all completed except for the improvement of the
land adjacent to the Zogona gulley and construction of the Wemtinga gully.
5.      Under the primary urban road network sub-component, the project
envisaged completing 38 km of road works in Ouagadougou and Bobo Dioulasso.
Presently, 9.4 kilometers of asphalted roads of which two double-headed
roads of 1.5 kms, 8 kms of improved dirt roads have been built in Ouagadougou
and 10.8 kilometers of asphalted roads have been completed in Bobo Dioulasso.
6.      Under the Piped sewerage and on-site sanitation sub-component, more
than 23,000 facilities have been built and are used by about 160,000
inhabitants in Ouagadougou. 139 primary schools are now equipped with
appropriate sanitary facilities in Ouagadougou financed entirely with the
sanitation surcharge compared to the 119 anticipated in the project.
Ouagadougou is by far, the only capital city in West Africa to have all its
primary schools equipped with sanitary facilities financed with locally
generated resources. Construction of the 7.1 km sewers and two pumping
stations of primary sewer system in Ouagadougou started in July 2001 and
will last for 8 months. The remaining part of the sewer network is being
financed by AFD through an equivalent of US$6.0 million grant and will
complete the initial envisaged program.
7.      Under the Waste management sub-component, official launching of the
sanitary landfills in both cities took place on April 2001 and construction
works started in July 2001. Completion of the construction works is expected
by January 2002.
Capacity Building
8.      Local resource mobilization collection rates on the newly established
residential tax have been in the range of 30 to 40 percent. This rate can
be considered to be low for the last four years although assessment of the
residential tax has improved over time particularly in Bobo Dioulasso. An
improved residential tax software, a new and more powerful computer equipment
and decisions taken by both municipalities to crack down delinquent
- 2 -



residential taxpayers through a tougher stance on the delivery of
administrative paperwork represent an opportunity to increase collection
efficiency of this tax to the benefit of municipal finance.
9.      The computerized management of land development and land acquisition
has not achieved expected results because of cumbersome procedures,
inappropriate data input management, and limited software and hardware
capabilities. An action plan that includes the recruitment of a local
consultant, installation of a new software package, acquisition of
appropriate computer equipment and the drafting of new procedures manual
should improve the situation. Implementation of this action plan has
started and a new policy aimed at simplifying land acquisition in urban
areas by removing the construction requirement that has impeded easier and
market-based land transactions, limiting therefore the generation of
financial resources for central and local governments will be presented at
the Council of Ministers in October 2001 before being sent to Parliament
for approval.
10.     Community managed tertiary infrastructure and services have been
successful. Works have been implemented in 58 percent of the districts
(12 out of 25 in Bobo Dioulasso and 16 out of 30 in Ouagadougou). Of the
more than US$1.3 million spent, with an average project cost of US$12,000,
municipalities and communities contributed 12 percent each in the financing
of the different projects and their total contributions have reached
US$ 153,000.
11.     Government has taken decisive and timely steps to fix availability
of counterpart funds that was problematic in the early years of the project
by including ahead of time the needed amount in the national budget to be
approved by the Parliament. This approach has secured funds for project
implementation and availability of counterpart fund is no more an issue.
Project objectives
12.     The objectives of the supplemental, consistent with those of the
original project, are to (a) improve urban living conditions by executing
priority urban works on primary infrastructure (road, drainage, solid waste),
and (b) develop urban services directly benefiting the low income groups.
Project description
13.     The proposed operation would finance construction of works identified
under the Infrastructure Rehabilitation component, specifically:
(i)     18 kms of roads,
(ii)    facilities on the two landfills to make them fully operational,
(iii)   58 decentralized transfer stations,
(iv)    4 kms of channeling of the Wemtinga gully, and
(v)     tree plantation to improve land stretches located along the
Zogona Gulley to prevent squatters from settling in these areas.
These activities were part of the current project but cannot be funded due to
a cost overrun encountered during implementation.
Project financing
14.     Total project cost (based on the engineering design) is estimated
-3 -



at US$22.0 million; of which, IDA financing of US$21 million is proposed.
The Government's contribution is estimated to be US$1.0 million equivalent,
representing 4.5 percent of the total project cost.
Project implementation
15.     The proposed Supplemental Credit does not require additional
implementation capacity beyond that already in place. The current project
is implemented by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) reporting to the Ministry
of Public Works, Housing and Urban Planning. This unit has performed
satisfactorily and will oversee the execution of the Supplemental Credit.
The Project Implementation Plan is being updated to reflect the new activities.
The Supplemental Credit will be subject to the same monitoring and
reporting requirements as the ongoing project. Procurement and disbursement
procedures will follow the procedures applied under the original Credit.
Civil works to be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bids (ICB)
will represent 76 percent of the supplemental credit and National Competitive
bids will represent 14 percent. The Supplemental Credit will be executed
in two years. Project sustainability
16.     Municipal revenues have experienced a rapid increase since the
beginning of the project because of reforms on the business tax that were
implemented during the Second Urban Project and the continuous focus on
local resource mobilization supported by the ongoing project. Revenues
have reached US6.8 million in Ouagadougou in 1998 and US$8.1 million in 2000
compared to US$ 2 million in 1993. In Bobo Dioulasso, municipal revenues
experienced a 4 percent increase between 1998 and 1999 and reached
US$1.8 million in 1999. Increased revenues at the municipal level have
helped finance operations and maintenance costs of the primary drainage system.
Roads already constructed have been properly maintained by the Ministry of
Public Works and existing arrangements which have proven to be effective
will be used to maintain roads and drainage facilities that will be
constructed. The decentralized solid waste transfer stations will be privately
managed and users fees will be collected, in addition to payments made
by the municipalities, to allow the private operators to finance operations
and maintenance of solid waste collection, transfer and disposal.
Environmental aspects
17.     As part of project preparation and design, an Environmental and Social
Analysis was conducted in 1993, which concluded that the project would have a
positive impact on the environment in the two main cities of Burkina.     Most
of the civil works involved drains, solid waste and sanitary facilities that
would contribute to a substantial improvement in environmental sanitation.
No resettlement of households is planned. An environmental impact study,
conducted for the Wemtinga drainage facility to be constructed under the
supplemental credit, concluded that there would be no major detrimental
impacts in carrying out the project. The study indicates that construction
of the drainage facility will by far improve the sanitary conditions,
drastically reduce soil erosions and limit mosquitoes breeding sites.
Components of the Environmental Management Plan will be included in the
bidding documents and will be implemented during the construction of the
facility.
Program objective categories
-4-



18.     The supplemental credit will support IDA's efforts to better
integrate poverty issues in the design of urban investments.
Contact Point:
Task Manager
Eustache Ouayoro
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 8458
For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the Infoshop during the week ending October 12,2001.
Lucy Njuguna
L:\12 Oct-01\pO74121.txt
October 9, 2001 10:18 AM
Lucy Njuguna
L:\12 Oct-01\pO74121.txt
October 10, 2001 2:23 PM
-5-



