Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2728 BUR
ONEA Project Agreement
(Urban Environment Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
Office National de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement
(ONEA)
Dated June 14, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2728 BUR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and Office National de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement (ONEA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
BURKINA FASO (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-four 
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 24,800,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition 
that ONEA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth 
in this Agreement;
WHEREAS (B) by a subsidiary loan agreement entered into between the Borrower and 
ONEA, a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be relent to ONEA on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS ONEA, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ONEA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part A (3) of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, environmental, ecological and 
engineering practices, under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for Part A (3) of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, ONEA shall carry 
out Part A (3) of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program as set 
forth in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultant's services required for Part A (3) of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) ONEA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the ONEA Project 
Agreement and Part A (3) of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General 
Conditions, ONEA shall:
(i)
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between ONEA and the Association, a plan, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, for the preservation of the accomplishments of the 
Project;
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with ONEA and the Borrower on said plan; and
(iii)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency 
and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account 
the Association's comments thereon.
Section 2.04. ONEA shall duly perform all its obligations under the ONEA 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ONEA shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the ONEA Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) ONEA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part A (3) of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the ONEA Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
ONEA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A (3) of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ONEA of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the ONEA Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ONEA
Section 3.01. ONEA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental, ecological and 
engineering practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
Page  3
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ONEA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial, technical and administrative practices.
Section 3.03. ONEA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ONEA shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations, and financial condition.
(b)
ONEA shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
ONEA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 40 years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify ONEA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
Page  4
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are: 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For ONEA:
ONEA
BP 170
Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso
Telex:
5555 SEGEGOUV
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ONEA may be 
taken or executed by the Director General of ONEA or such other person or persons as 
the Director General of ONEA shall designate in writing, and ONEA shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
ONEA
By /s/ Gaetan R. Ouedraogo
Authorized Representative
