Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2728-1 BUR
(Amendment)
Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Urban Environment Project)
between
BURKINA  FASO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 25 , 2002
CCREDIT NUMBER 2728-1 BUR
(Amendment)
AGREEMENT AMENDING
Page  2
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 25, 2002, between BURKINA FASO (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a Development 
Credit Agreement dated June 14, 1995, as amended from time to time (the Development Credit 
Agreement), for the financing of the Urban Environment Project, Credit Number 2728 BUR 
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (the Project);
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional assistance 
towards financing of the Project, including civil works, goods, and consultants’ services, by 
increasing the amount made available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventeen million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 17,700,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement (as hereinafter defined);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999) (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended as follows:
(a)
the word “and” at the end of sub-section (r) is deleted, and the “.” at the end of 
sub-section (s) replaced with “;” 
(b)
a new sub-section (t) is added to read as follows:
“(t)
“Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement” means this 
Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower 
and the Association, dated April 25, 2002;”
(c)
a new subsection (u) is added to read as follows:
“(u)
[“Environmental and Social Impact Mitigation Plan”] means thethe set 
of document(s) prepared by the Borrower anddated _______ containing the set 
Page  3
of mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and institutional measures, and 
attaching a framework process for reduction of potential negative social impact, 
including: (i) involuntary resettlement; (ii) land acquisition; (iii) pollution 
prevention and abatement; and (iv) health safety and occupational health; and”
(d) 
a new subsection (v) is added to read as follows:
“(v)
“Financial Monitoring Report” means the report referred to in Section 
4.02 of this Development Credit Agreement.”
Section 1.03. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to read as 
follows:
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to forty-two million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 42,500,000) (the Credit), which includes: (a) an original amount 
in various currencies equivalent to twenty-four million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 24,800,000) (the Initial Financing); and (b) a supplemental 
amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million seven hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 17,700,000) (the Supplemental Financing).”
Section 1.04.  Section 2.02 (b) is deleted and replaced by the following words:
“(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain 
in CFAF three special deposit accounts in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment to be applied as follows:
(i) 
the first of the Special Accounts (Special Account “A”) shall be 
used exclusively for all Parts of the Project with the exception of 
Part A.3 under the Initial Financing;
(ii) 
the second of the Special Accounts (Special Account “B”) shall 
be used exclusively for Part A.3 of the Project under the Initial 
Financing; and
(iii) 
the third of the Special Accounts (Special Account “C”) shall be 
used exclusively for all Parts of the Project with the exception of 
Part A.3 under the Supplemental Financing.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, a Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.”
Page  4
Section 1.05. In Section 2.03, the Closing Date is amended to read: “December 31, 
2004”.           
Section 1.06. Section 2.04 (b) (i) of the Development Credit Agreement is amended by 
adding after the term “cancelled” the following proviso
:
“provided however, that any commitment charge on the Supplemental Financing 
shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the Agreement 
Amending the Development Credit Agreement.”
Section 1.07. Section 2.07 (a) is amended to read as follows:
“(a)
Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall: 
(A)
repay the principal amount of the Initial Financing in semiannual 
installments payable on each May 15 and November 15, 
commencing November 15, 2005 and ending May 15, 2035. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on 
May 15, 2015, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount; and
(B)
repay the principal amount of the Supplemental Financing in semiannual installments 
payable on each May 15 and November 15, commencing May 15, 2012 
[                     ]
 and 
[                              
]
, commencing 
[                     ,        ]
 and ending November 15, 2041
[                                           ,      
]
. Each installment to and including the installment payable on November 15, 2021
[                            
,     ]
 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.”
Section 1.08. Section 2.07 (b) and (c) are deleted and replaced by the following words, 
and a new paragraph (d) is added:
“(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the Association of 
the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
Page  5
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower 
that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, 
provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above.”
Section 1.09. A new Section 4.02 is added to read as follows:
“Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which:
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds;
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report.
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not 
later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and 
shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project 
through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring 
Report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each subsequent 
Page  6
calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
Section 1.10. The table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement is deleted and replaced with the table set forth in Attachment I to this Agreement 
Amending the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 1.11. The last line in Schedule 2 to the development Credit Agreement is deleted 
and replaced by the words:
“The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004”.
Section 1.12. A new paragraph 4 is added at the end of Schedule 4, to read as follows:
“The Borrower shall ensure that Project implementation shall at all times be 
carried out in accordance with the [Environmental and Social Impact Mitigation Plan] 
and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or 
waive any provision of the [Environmental and Social Impact Mitigation Plan] or any 
provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially 
and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.”
Section 1.13. Schedule 5 is deleted and replaced with the Schedule 5 set forth in 
Attachment II to this Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement shall not 
become effective until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the 
Association that the execution and delivery of this Agreement Amending the Development Credit 
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary 
governmental action, and this Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement is 
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of this 
Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement, there shall be furnished to the 
Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association showing, on behalf of the 
Borrower, that this Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement shall come 
into force and effect on the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower 
notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Agreement Amending 
Page  7
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement shall not  
come into force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement Amending 
the Development Credit Agreement, this Agreement Amending the Development Credit 
Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association 
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If this Agreement Amending the 
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the 
Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Agreement 
Amending the Development Credit Agreement had not been executed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement to be 
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the 
day and year first above written.
BURKINA FASO
By
/s/ Tertius Zongo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/ A. David Craig
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
Attachment I
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
Page  8
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items to be financed in each Category:
Category
Amount of the Credit
Allocated (Expressed
in SDR Equivalent
)
% of
Expenditures
to be Financed
(1)    Civil Works
(a)
Part A.3 (Initial Financing)
(b)
Part B.4 (Initial Financing)
(c)
Other (Initial Financing)
(d)
Other (Supplemental Financing)
1,220,000
1,650,000
15,000,000
16,000,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 
80% of local 
expenditures
(2)
Goods and Vehicles 
(a)   Part A.3 (Initial Financing)
       (b)   Other (Initial 
Financing)Supplemental Credit
(a)
210,000
615,000
100% of 
foreign
expenditures 
and 
80% of local 
expenditures
(3)    Consultants’ Services and
         Training
(a)   Part A.3 (Initial Financing)
       (b)   Other (Initial Financing)
       (c)   Other (Supplemental Financing)
350,000
3,540,000
1,400,000
80%
(4)    Guarantee Fund (Initial 
Financing)After Pilot 
(a)
Pilot Phase
(b)
After Pilot PhasePhase
(a)
Supplemental Credit
(i)
Pilot Phase               
                         (ii)         After Pilot                         
70,000
330,000
80%
(5)    Operating expenses
(a)   Part A.3 (Initial Financing)
       (b)   Other (Initial Financing)
       (c)   Other (Supplemental 
Financing)Initial Financing
Supplemental Credit
(6)    Refunding of Project
         Preparation Advance(6)     Refunding 
of Project Preparation Advance
50,000
1,000,000
300,000
765,000
__________
42,500,000
=========
80%
       Amounts due pursuant to
       Section 2.02 (c) of this
       Agreement
Attachment II
SCHEDULE 5
Page  9
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means: 
(i)
in the case of Special Account “A”, Categories (1) (b) and (c); (2) (b); 
(3) (b); 
(4) (a) and (b), and (5) (b); 
(ii)
in the case of Special Account “B”, Categories (1) (a), (2) (a), (3) (a) and 
(5) (a) 
of said table; and
(iii)
in the case of Special Account “C” Categories (1) (d), (3) (c) and (5) (c), 
set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means:
(i)
an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 for Special Account “A”, 
(ii)
an amount equivalent to $300,000 for Special Account “B”; and 
(iii)
an amount equivalent to CFAF 1,000,000,000 for Special Account “C”, 
respectively;  to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into the 
Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, provided, 
however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall 
be limited to:
(i)
an amount equivalent to $500,000 for Special Account “A”;
(ii)
an amount equivalent to $150,000 for Special Account “B”; and 
(iii)
an amount equivalent to CFAF 500,000,000 for Special Account “C”; 
respectively, until, in respect of:
(i)
Special Account “A”, the aggregate amount of withdrawals and 
commitments for 
Parts A.1, A.2, A.4 and A.5 and B of the Project shall be 
equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 10,000,000;
(ii)
Special Account “B”, the aggregate amount of withdrawals and 
commitments for 
Part A.3 of the Project shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 
Page  10
900,000; and 
(iii)
Special Account “C”, related to the Supplemental Financing, the 
aggregate 
amount of withdrawals and commitments for Parts A.1, 
A.2, A.4 and A.5 and B 
of the Project shall be equal to SDR 7,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Accounts 
have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for a deposit into Special Accounts “A” , “B” or “C”, 
respectively, which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the respective Authorized Allocation. 
On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such amount 
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposits into the Special Accounts at such 
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the respective Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the respective 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Accounts, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
Page  11
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the respective Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the total Authorized Allocation for Special Account 
“A”, “B” or C”, respectively, respectively, as the case may be.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit allocated to the eligible Categories of disbursement under Special Account "A" or “B” or 
“C”, as the case may be, shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of any 
one of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special 
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the respective 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in one of the Special Accounts will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the 
Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  12
