Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2728 BUR
Development Credit Agreement
(Urban Environment Project)
between
BURKINA FASO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 14, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2728 BUR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 1995, between  BURKINA FASO (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS: (B) the Association has received a letter dated March 23, 1995  from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
improve implementation of the Borrower's decentralization policy (the Program) and 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program;
WHEREAS: (C) by agreement dated March 31, 1995 (the FAC Grant Agreement), the 
French Fonds d'aide et de cooperation (FAC) has agreed to make a grant (the FAC Grant) 
to the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to nine million French 
francs (FRF 9,000,000) to assist in financing parts of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the FAC Grant Agreement;
WHEREAS: (D) the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations Development 
Fund/Country Program Funds (UNDP) a grant (the UNDP Grant) in an aggregate principal 
amount equivalent to six hundred thousand dollars ($600,000) to assist in financing 
parts of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be 
Page  2
entered into between the Borrower and UNDP (the UNDP Grant Agreement);
WHEREAS: (E) Part A (3) of the Project will be carried out by the Office 
National de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement of the Borrower (ONEA), with the Borrower's 
assistance, and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to ONEA 
part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the ONEA Project Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Association and ONEA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made:  (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Association or for goods produced 
in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to 
the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the United 
Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to three commitment letters by the 
Association dated: (i) September 30, 1992, and confirmed by the Borrower on October 
12, 1992; (ii) February 2, 1994, and confirmed by the Borrower on February 24, 1994; 
and (iii) August 5, 1994, and confirmed by the Borrower on September 12, 1994, 
respectively. 
(b)
"CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(c)
"Special Account" means each of the special accounts referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement, and the term "Special Accounts" means all such 
accounts;
(d)
"MPW" means the Ministry responsible for Public Works, Urban Planning and 
Housing of the Borrower;
(e)
"Project Unit" or "PU" means the unit referred to in paragraph 1 (a) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(f)
"Project Account" means each of the accounts referred to in  Section 3.01 
(b) of this Agreement, and the term "Project Accounts" means all such accounts;
(g)
"Guarantee Fund" means the Fund referred to in Part B (5) of the Project;
 
(h)
"Procedural Manual" means the manual of procedures, prepared by the 
Borrower and acceptable to the Association, for the implementation of the Project, 
including the Implementation
Plan, the Guarantee Fund Implementation Manual, Project monitoring indicators, 
accounting methods, management rules and sample bidding documents;
(i)
"ONEA Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement entered into between 
Page  3
the Borrower and ONEA pursuant to Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement, as the same may 
be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the ONEA Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement;
(j)
"ONEA Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
ONEA, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the ONEA Project Agreement;
(k)
"Ouagadougou" means the city of Ouagadougou, as defined in Law No. 
005/93/ADP of May 12, 1993;
(l)
"Bobo-Dioulasso" means the city of Bobo-Dioulasso, as defined by Law No. 
006/93/ADP of May 12, 1993;
(m)
"RAF" means Reorganisation Agraire et Fonciere, the Borrower's land 
tenure act, ZATU No. An VIII 0039 bis FP/PRES of June 4, 1991 as amended to the date 
of this Agreement;
(n)
"MLG" means Ministere de l'Administration Territoriale, the Ministry of 
Local Governments of the Borrower;
(o)
"CPE" means Caisses Populaires d'Epargne, a savings and loan cooperatives 
network in the territory of the Borrower;
(p)
"MF" means the Ministry responsible for the Finances of the Borrower;
 
(q)
"AET" means Agence d'Execution des Travaux, a local construction 
management company;
(r)
"DGI" means Direction Generale des Impots, the Directorate in charge of 
tax collection in the Borrower's Ministry of Finance; and
(s)
"DGUTF" means Direction Generale d'Urbanisme et des Travaux Financiers, 
the Directorate in charge of urban planning and land management in the Borrower's 
Ministry of Public Works.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-four million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 24,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF two special deposit accounts (Special Account "A" for all Parts of the Project 
with the exception of
Part A (3); and Special Account "B" for Part A (3) of the Project) in a commercial 
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, 
the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to the Association the amount 
required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn 
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2001 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
Page  4
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the 
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set 
from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15
commencing November 15, 2005 and ending May 15, 2035. Each installment to, and 
including the installment payable on, May 15, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such 
principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and shall, to this end:
(i)
carry out Parts A (1), (2), (4), (5) and B of the Project, with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and 
Page  5
ecological practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds,  facilities, services and other resources required for 
Parts A (1), (2), (4) (5) and B of the Project; and
(ii)
without any limitation or restrictions upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, cause ONEA to carry out Part A 
(3) of the Project under the overall coordination of PU and to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the ONEA Project 
Agreement its obligations therein set forth; and take or cause to 
be taken all actions, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable ONEA to perform such obligations, and not take or permit 
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Parts A
(1), (2), (4), (5) and B of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Schedule 
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall open and
maintain, until completion of the Project, three project accounts (Project Account "A" 
for MPW/PU; Project Account "B" for ONEA and Project Account "C" for the Guarantee 
Fund) in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association; all such Project Accounts to be used exclusively for 
the purposes of meeting expenditures incurred under the Project.
(d)
The Borrower shall deposit into the Project Account "A" an initial amount 
of $130,000 equivalent and, thereafter, promptly before the end of each fiscal 
semester, sufficient funds to pay the Borrower's contribution to the financing of the 
Project required for such fiscal semester, as estimated by the Borrower in 
consultation with the Association.
(e)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of this Credit allocated from time 
to time to Part A (3) of the Project to ONEA under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and ONEA, under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Association and which shall include, inter alia: (i) 
repayment of principal in forty years including a ten year grace period; (ii) 
repayment in semi-annual installments of 1% of the principal amount from the
eleventh to the twentieth year and 2% thereafter; and (iii) a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourth of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum of the principal amount of 
the Credit onlent and outstanding from time to time.
(f)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the ONEA Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the ONEA Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project, and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Borrower and the
Association, a plan of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request for the preservation of the accomplishments of the Project;
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon.
Page  6
Section 3.04. The Association and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A (3) of 
the Project shall be carried out by ONEA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the ONEA Project 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A (1), (2), (4), (5) and B 
of the Project by the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying 
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for Special Accounts (A) and (B), for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Accounts (A) 
and (B) was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
ONEA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the ONEA 
Project Agreement.
Page  7
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that ONEA will be able to perform its obligations under the ONEA 
Project Agreement.
(d)
The act constituting the establishment of ONEA shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of ONEA to perform any of its obligations under the ONEA Project Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ONEA or for the suspension of 
its operations.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the FAC Grant and the UNDP 
Grant, shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole 
or in part, pursuant to the terms thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (f) (i) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f) (ii) of said Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the FAC Grant Agreement 
and the UNDP Grant Agreement have been fulfilled, other than those related to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement;
(b)
the ONEA Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and ONEA;
(c)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association the Procedural Manual, 
acceptable to the Association;
(d)
the contract for delegating management of works under Part B (4) of the 
Project referred to in paragraph (1) (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement has been 
signed by the parties thereto;
(e)
the PU referred to in paragraph (1) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement has 
been established with a composition and terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, and a Project Manager to head said PU, whose qualifications and 
experience shall be satisfactory to the Association, has been appointed in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and has assumed his 
position;
(f)
(i) a solid waste management action plan for carrying out Part A (4) of 
Page  8
the Project; and (ii) the action plan for computerization pursuant to Part B (1) of 
the Project, both acceptable to the Association, have been furnished to the 
Association;
(g)
the independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this 
Agreement have been appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(h)
an accounting system for the Project, satisfactory to the Association and 
consistent with the Procedural Manual, has been established and a qualified and 
experienced accountant, satisfactory to the Association, has been recruited in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(i)
the Borrower has opened the Project Accounts referred to in Section 3.01 
(c) of this Agreement and the initial amount specified in Section 3.01 (d) of this 
Agreement has been deposited into Project Account "A"; and
(j)
the Borrower has furnished to the Association an environmental impact 
mitigation plan, acceptable to the Association, regarding the piped sewage system of 
Ouagadougou.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association: (a) the ONEA Project Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by ONEA and is legally binding upon ONEA in 
accordance with its terms; and (b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and 
ONEA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ONEA in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for Planning is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan
03 BP 7050
OUAGADOUGOU 03
Burkina Faso
Telex:
5555  SEGEGOUV
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
Page  9
written.
BURKINA FASO
By /s/ Gaetan R. Ouedraogo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                              Credit Allocated                % of
                                (Expressed in              Expenditures
Category                       SDR Equivalent)           to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works
     (a)  Part A (3)               1,100,000             100% of foreign
                                                         expenditures and
                                                         95% of local
                                                         expenditures
     (b)  Part B (4)               1,340,000             100% of foreign
                                                         expenditures and
                                                         95% of local
                                                         expenditures
     (c)  Other                   13,260,000             100% of foreign
                                                         expenditures and
                                                         95% of local
                                                         expenditures
(2)  Goods and vehicles             670,000              100% of foreign
                                                         expenditures,
                                                         100% of local
                                                         expenditures
                                                         (ex-factory cost),
                                                         and 95% of local
                                                         expenditures
                                                         for other items
                                                         procured locally
(3)  Consultants'
     Services and
     Training
     (a)  Part A (3)                710,000              100%
Page  10
     (b)  Other                   3,350,000              100%
(4)  Guarantee Fund
     (a)  Pilot Phase                70,000              80%
     (b)  After Pilot Phase         340,000              80%
(5)  Operating expenses             340,000              95%
(6)  Refunding of Project           940,000              Amounts due
     Preparation Advance                                 pursuant to
                                                         Section 2.02 (c)
                                                         of this Agreement
(7)  Unallocated                  2,680,000
             TOTAL               24,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures 
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign 
expenditures";
(c)
the term "operating expenditures" means the incremental costs of salaries 
of contractual staff, travel allowances for project staff, equipment and vehicle 
maintenance and operating costs, and office supplies, incurred in the carrying out of 
the Project.
3.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and
(b)
no payments shall be made under Category (4) (b) of the table under 
paragraph 1 above, unless and until the Association has evaluated the pilot phase 
referred to in paragraph (1) (d) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and notified the 
Borrower of its agreement for the Borrower to expand the operation of the Guarantee 
Fund according to said paragraph.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 and $200,000 equivalent, respectively; (b) services 
under contracts not exceeding $100,000 for consultant firms and $50,000 for individual 
consultants, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower; and (c) expenses under Category (4) of the table under 
paragraph 1 above.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to strengthen the administration of Ouagadougou 
and Bobo-Dioulasso in pursuance of the Borrower's decentralization and environmental 
policies through: (1) execution of urban works in primary  infrastructure; (2) 
development of urban services directly benefitting the urban poor population and 
stimulating their active participation in such services; and (3) establishment of 
appropriate laws and regulations pertaining to land management and urban planning.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Restoration of primary infrastructure networks.
Page  11
1.
Rehabilitation of priority primary drainage networks
 
(a)
channeling: (i) Zogona and Wemtenga gullies in Ouagadougou; and (ii) 
Houet gully in Bobo-Dioulasso;
(b)
carrying out drainage simulation studies and a drainage master plan for 
Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso;
(c)
carrying out research programs in relation to, and promotion of, 
recommended technologies for drainage works;
2.
Rehabilitation and restructuring of primary peripheral urban road networks, in 
Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso.
3.
Piped sewage and on-site sanitation
 
(a)
in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso: (i) promotion of technologies for 
pit-emptying and provision of technical assistance to small entrepreneurs operating in 
the aforementioned line of business; (ii) sensitization of the population to use 
recommended technologies for on-site sanitation; and (iii) preparation of training 
materials; and carrying out of training and provision of advisory services for 
artisans to construct and rehabilitate on-site sanitation systems;
(b)
in Ouagadougou according to the Plan Strategique d'Assainissement de 
Ouagadougou: (i) development of on-site sanitation; (ii) development of sewage 
systems, including design and construction of waste water treatment ponds; and (iii) 
construction of approximately 119 school amenity systems; 
(c)
in Bobo-Dioulasso: elaboration of a Strategic Sanitation Plan.
 
4.
Solid Waste Management
 
In Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso:
(a)
closing of unsafe dump sites; restoration and rehabilitation of sanitary 
landfills; and construction of new solid waste transfer stations and sanitary 
landfills;
(b)
carrying out of environmental impact studies, design and supervision of 
works;
(c)
provision of advisory services to entrepreneurs engaged in the solid 
waste management business; sensitization of the population to composting and recycling 
and promotion of these activities; and development of cost recovery systems from 
beneficiaries for services rendered.
5.
Toxic and Industrial Waste Management
 
(a)
decreasing polluters' impact through: (i) pollution prevention audits; 
and (ii) strengthening of monitoring capacity of the administration of the Borrower 
responsible for environmental control;
(b)
strengthening of toxic and industrial waste monitoring institutions and 
laboratories and establishment of new such institutions and laboratories;
(c)
preparation of an industrial and toxic waste management action plan;
 
(d)
carrying out of feasibility studies for used oil treatment plants.
 
Part B:
Capacity Building
 
1.
Local resource mobilization in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso. Adjustment and 
expansion of the land and real property tax system aimed at:
(a)
improvement of local fiscal management;
 
(b)
preparation of a land and real property tax system and action plan for 
the computerized collection of such tax by DGI and DGUTF;
(c)
definition and implementation of cost recovery principles for sanitation 
and waste management through: (i) field surveys preparing on-time tax records; and 
Page  12
(ii) updating of land-use records and billing systems;
(d)
control and maintenance of collection performance based on tax records; 
and
(e)
development of a pilot program to establish computerized land and real 
property tax record management.
2.
Institutional framework for urban management:
 
(a)
strengthening of the institutional capacity of MPW through: (i) provision 
of advisory services regarding the reform of RAF; (ii) provision of information 
regarding urban development and urban land-use; (iii) assessment of urban-land demand; 
(iv) development of an adequate reserve of urban land, based on such assessment; (v) 
encouragement of free market exchanges for urban land; and
(b)
carrying out of an Urban Information System to: (i) facilitate planning 
and programming of investments; (ii) manage resources generated by use of urban land; 
and (iii) contribute to the development of an urban finance base through the expansion 
of a land and real property tax system and the future implementation of such a tax 
system.
3.
Technical Assistance, Training and Monitoring.
 
Strengthening of local capacity through two-year action plans to: (a) design, 
coordinate and implement institutional tasks; (b) identify and rectify institutional 
weakness; (c) execute public awareness campaigns; and (d) assess the impact of new 
investments.
4.
Community participation executed through AET:
 
(a)
strengthening of MLG in project identification, human resource 
development, participatory execution of works, coordination and development of 
regulatory frameworks conducive to beneficiary participation; and
(b)
carrying out of tertiary level urban infrastructure investments in 
Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso with the active participation of beneficiaries for, 
inter alia: (i) drainage and road rehabilitation; (ii) urban renewal; and (iii) 
door-to-door waste collection.
5.
Housing development.
 
Strengthening of housing development through the establishment of a Guarantee 
Fund to guarantee CPE lending and provision of:
(a)
technical assistance to selected CPE staff to acquire technical, legal 
and financial efficiency;
(b)
a pilot guarantee program in five selected CPE agencies; and
 
(c)
expansion of the guarantee program to the CPE network upon successful 
completion of the pilot program.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Page  13
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Part C:
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
(a)
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract and 
$1,300,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works other than under Part B (4) of the Project, estimated to cost 
$500,000 equivalent or less per contract and $4,600,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or less per contract and $100,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
 
Works estimated to cost $10,000 equivalent or less per contract and costing 
$100,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
4.
Community Participation
 
Works required for Part B (4) of the Project shall be carried out through 
community participation in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to: (i) each contract for works, with the exception of contracts 
under part B (4) of the Project, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply for the first two years after Effective Date. 
Thereafter, these procedures shall apply to each contract for works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $200,000 or more; and (ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedure set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  14
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Association. 
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other 
standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall 
not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source 
selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
establish PU at MPW, which shall be responsible for, inter alia: (i) 
Project coordination among the Comite Interministeriel de Pilotage, (CIP), notably MF; 
the cities of Ouagadougou, and Bobo-Dioulasso; and ONEA; (ii) sensitization and 
awareness promotion of Project activities among beneficiaries; and (iii) furnishing 
quarterly project implementation reports to the Association as detailed as reasonably 
requested by the Association; said PU to be led by a qualified and experienced Project 
Manager acceptable to the Association; and maintain such qualified Project Manager and 
PU, equipped with qualified support staff in sufficient numbers, until completion of 
the Project, unless otherwise agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association;
(b)
three months after Effective Date, conclude and furnish to the 
Association the signed agreement with AET, acceptable to the Association, for 
implementation of Part B (4) of the Project; and  maintain said agreement until 
completion of the Project and not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive said 
agreement, unless previously agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association; 
(c)
six months after Effective Date, furnish to the Association for approval: 
(i) an agreement on an implementation and action plan, satisfactory to the 
Association, concluded between MF and MPW, covering the coordination of the 
Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso resource mobilization programs and the monitoring and 
evaluation indicators for their execution; and (ii) an action plan to strengthen local 
capacity pursuant to Part B (3) of the Project.  Upon approval by the Association of 
the agreement referred to under subparagraph (i) of this paragraph and the action 
plans referred to under subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, conclude and proceed to 
implement said agreement and said action plan in accordance with their terms and not 
amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive such agreement or action plan, unless 
previously agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
(d)
implement Part B (4) of the Project in three stages: (i) within three 
months of Effective Date, initiate a six month training program for selected CPE 
personnel to acquire technical, legal and financial management efficiency; (ii) 
following such training, implement a twelve month pilot phase in five selected CPE 
agencies consisting of: (A) establishment of a Guarantee Fund designed to guarantee 
specific CPE loans, according to the Guarantee Fund Implementation Manual; (B) 
issuance of guarantees under said Guarantee Fund; and (C) evaluation of loan and 
guarantee performance; (iii) have the performance of the CPE under the pilot phase 
referred to under sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph audited by an independent 
auditor; furnish such audit to the Association within three months of the end of such 
pilot phase; and consult with the Association on the recommendation of such auditor; 
and (iv) expand the Guarantee Fund to the entire operation of CPE upon approval of the 
Association.
Page  15
(e)
implement:  (i)  Part B (1) of the Project through DGI; and (ii) Part B 
(2) of the Project through DGUTF;
(f)
process procurement operations under International Competitive Bidding 
Conditions and Local Competitive Bidding conditions, respectively, as set forth in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement with due diligence and, in particular: (i) within four 
(4) weeks from bid opening, transmit to the Association documentation as set forth in 
paragraph (2) (b) of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines referred to in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and (ii) within four (4) weeks from the receipt of the
Association's non-objection to the proposed contract, have said contract signed;
(g)
carry out the action plan for implementation of Part A (4) of the Project 
in compliance with environmental assessment studies, executed under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, prior to the implementation of works.
2.
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it 
to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Procedural Manual, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and not 
alter, amend, waive or abrogate such
Procedural Manual without prior approval of the Association;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, not later than April 30 of each year, a report of Project 
implementation integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Association, two months after having furnished the report 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section to the Association, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, said report (the review to be held not later than June 
30, 1998 hereinafter referred to as  mid-term review) and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
said report and the Association's views on the matter.
3.
The Borrower shall, prior to the mid-term review referred to under paragraph 
2(c) of this Schedule: (i) submit to Parliament for approbation the Code des Communes, 
acceptable to the Association, prepared pursuant to the Credit Agreement, concluded 
between the Borrower and the Association (Second Urban Project) on December 22, 1989; 
(ii) furnish to the Association for approval the final report of the study 
"Definitions des Modalites de Developpement des Ressources
Locales" prepared by the Commission Nationale de Decentralisation of the Borrower, 
with comments, and prepare the legal framework proposed in said study as approved by 
the Association; and (iii) furnish a separate report on efficiency of cost recovery 
measures under the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) in the case of Special Account 
"A", Categories (1)(b), (c); (2); (3)(b); (4) and (5) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) in the case of Special Account 
"B", Category (1)(a) and (3)(a) of said table.
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
for Special Account "A" and equivalent to $300,000 for Special Account "B"; to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 for Special Account "A" and to an amount equivalent to $150,000 for Special 
Account "B" until, in respect of Special Account "A", the aggregate amount of 
Page  16
withdrawals and commitments for Parts A (1), (2), (4), (5) and B of the Project shall 
be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 10,000,000 and, in respect of Special 
Account "B", the aggregate amount of withdrawals and commitments for Part A (3) of the 
Project shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 900,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit into Special Account "A" or 
Special Account "B", respectively, which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
respective Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Accounts at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special 
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Accounts, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the respective Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the total Authorized 
Allocation for Special Account "A" and Special Account "B", respectively, as the case 
may be.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories of disbursement under Special Account 
"A" or Special Account "B", respectively, as the case may be, shall follow such 
Page  17
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any one of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount 
not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by 
the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may 
request; or (B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the respective 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in one of the Special Accounts will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
