                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                                        Report No: 34835

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                 (IDA-27280 PPFI-P7690 PPFI-P7691 PPFI-P7692 IDA-27281)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR46.5 MILLION (US$59 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO

                                    BURKINA FASO

                                        FOR AN

                           URBAN ENVIRONMENT PROJECT




                                   December 29, 2005




Water and Urban II
Country Department 15
Africa Region

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective November 11, 2005)

                                  Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                                CFAF 1 million = US$ US$1,789.52
                                         US$ 1.0 = CFAF 558.808
                                        SDR 1.0 = US$1.42669
                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1 -      December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD      Agence Française de Développement
ASPEN    Africa Safeguards Policies Enhancement
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CDD      Community-Driven Development
CFAF     Franc de la Communauté financière d'Afrique
CND      Comité Nationale de Décentralization
CPE      Caisses Populaires d'Epargne
DGUT     Direction Générale de l'Urbanisme et des Travaux
EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment
EOP      End-of-Project
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
EU       European Union
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Agency
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MAT      Ministère de l'Administration Territoriale
MOS      Maîtrise d'OEuvre Sociale
MTPHU    Ministère des Travaux Publiques, de l'Habitat et de l'Urbanisme
NPV      Net Present Value
ONEA     Office Nationale de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement
PACVU    Projet d'Amélioration des Conditions de Vie Urbaine
PDU2     Projet de Développement Urbain 2
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PPP      Public-Private Partnership
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SONABEL  Société Nationale Burkinabè d'Electricité
SSAP     Strategic Sanitation Action Plan
SSA      Sub-Saharan Africa
SWM      Solid Waste Management



                                Vice President:       Gobind T. Nankani
                     Acting Country Director:         Diariétou Gaye
                               Sector Manager:        Eustache Ouayoro
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:             Sylvie Debomy

                                       BURKINA FASO




                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8. Summary of Government Implementation Completion Report                  27

Project ID: P000297                                                  Project Name: BF-Urb Env (FY95)
Team Leader: Sylvie Debomy                                           TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 29, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: BF-Urb Env (FY95)                                        L/C/TF Number: IDA-27280; PPFI-P7690;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P7691; PPFI-P7692;
                                                                                                     IDA-27281
   Country/Department: BURKINA FASO                                                       Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (80%); Other social services (9%);
                            Central government administration (5%); Sub-national government administration (4%);
                            Housing finance and real estate markets (2%)
                  Theme: Decentralization (P); Other urban development (P); Access to urban services and housing (P);
                            Law reform (P); Participation and civic engagement (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/30/1991                                     Effective: 10/12/1995                05/30/1996
     Appraisal: 06/28/1994                                         MTR: 06/01/1998                  06/09/1998
      Approval: 05/23/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/2000                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/Project Unit in the Ministry of Public Works; Housing and
                                           Urban Planning
                      Other Partners:      Agence Française de Développement (parallel financing)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              E. Z. K. Jaycox
Country Director:               Diarietou Gaye                                 Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:                 Eustache Ouayoro                               James Wright
Team Leader at ICR:             Sylvie Debomy                                  Christian Diou
ICR Primary Author:             Christian Vang Eghoff


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The overall framework of the Urban Environment Project (Projet d'Amélioration des Conditions
de Vie Urbaine - PACVU) was to lay the groundwork for decentralizing management, operation,
and control of the overall urban environment to the local governments in Ouagadougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso, supporting both decentralization and environment policies. The specific
objectives of the project were to:

a. improve urban living conditions by executing priority urban works on primary infrastructure
    (road, drainage, solid waste and sanitation);
b. develop urban services directly benefiting the low income groups;
c. promote the active participation of the urban population in urban service development, either
    directly, or through beneficiary associations or elected representatives; and
d. promote sustainability of urban environment services by supporting the government's
    decentralization program and setting up new laws, regulations and practices that would result
    in better land management, investment programming and local resource mobilization.

At the time of appraisal, Burkina Faso was embarking on its decentralization process and was
experiencing a rapid rate of urbanization, while the currency of the West African Monetary zone,
to which Burkina Faso belonged, was devaluated as a measure to adjust the country's
deteriorating macro economic conditions.

The rapid rate of urbanization in the country and particularly in Ouagadougou (9.7% per year)
and Bobo-Dioulasso (6.5% per year) during the decade leading up to appraisal in 1994 had
exacerbated poverty in and around urban centers. The focus on Ouagadougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso was justified by the fact that over 80% of the urban population at that time was
living in those cities.

The project was furthermore a timely response to the decentralization process that was taking
place in order to support the development and the strengthening of local governments being
empowered with new responsibilities. One objective of this process was to improve the living
conditions of a larger number of poor urban inhabitants struck by the austerity measures
implemented under the structural adjustment programs of the early 1990s and the devaluation of
the local currency in 1994.

The objectives of the project reflected the priorities for the sector as stated in government policies
and in the 1994 CAS. The CAS stressed lack of urban drainage and sanitation as major urban
environmental issues, and the main objective of the CAS supported by the project was to support
critical actions needed to alleviate long-term constraints on economic and social development.
This support was done by the project through investments in essential environmental urban
infrastructure, services, and capacity building.

The project was also in line with the Government's National Environmental Action Plan of 1993,
which had started to recognize the need for addressing urban environmental problems (including



                                                - 2 -

infrastructure deterioration, gaps in infrastructure services and severe limitation in waste
management services) caused by the rapid rate of urbanization. The plan especially pointed to the
specific needs of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso in terms of planning, design, and
implementation of critical sanitary infrastructure.

The project's objectives remain valid in light of the 2005 CAS, which stresses the need to create
effective rural-urban linkages through decentralized urban development, coupled with support to
decentralized decision-making and economic and market infrastructure in secondary urban areas,
which are still facing large infrastructure gaps.

As of today, and with respect to the MDGs, the objectives of the project remain relevant in terms
of providing sanitation and improving the lives of slum dwellers.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objective was not revised, but a Supplemental Credit of US$22 million was approved by the
Bank on March 28, 2002. The Supplemental would finance the completion of activities that were
already included in the project, as well as further activities to complement existing ones, in order
to ensure greater access to urban environmental services and support sustainability of urban
environmental services. The rationale for the Supplemental was stated in the Memorandum and
Recommendation of the President as unexpected increases in unit costs for civil works and
construction of the roads, drainage, and solid waste management (SWM) sub-components due to
strained capacity in the construction industry (a number of fast track construction and
infrastructure works were carried out from 1997 to 2000 to facilitate the hosting of major
international events), coupled with new technical requirements for aquifer protection in relation to
construction of the landfills.

3.3 Original Components:

The project was built around two components focusing on infrastructure and capacity building,
respectively.

Component 1: Restoration of the primary infrastructure networks (Appraisal estimate:
US$31.2 million, Supplemental: US$22 million, total estimate: US$53.2 million).

The five sub-components were designed to finance civil works and consultant services for primary
infrastructure investments and the development of urban services, in order to improve the living
conditions in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso.

   l Drainage (Appraisal: US$9.1 million, Supplemental: US$5.5 million, total: US$14.6
        million): (i) rehabilitation and improvement of drainage networks (Ouagadougou: 7.6 Km,
        Bobo-Dioulasso: 5.0 km, 12.6 km total); (ii) drainage simulation studies in the two cities;
        and (iii) preparation (Ouagadougou) and actualization (Bobo-Dioulasso) of drainage
        master plans.
   l Roads (Appraisal: US$9.1 million, Supplemental: US$13 million, total: US$22.1 million):
        with focus on sub-urban networks to improve access of poor neighborhoods, the SAR



                                                 - 3 -

       states that the project would finance 24.75 km of roads in Ouagadougou (1.9 km of paved
       roads and 22.85 km of earth roads), 13.25 km of roads in Bobo-Dioulasso (5.0 km of
       paved roads and 8.25 km of earth roads) corresponding to 38 km of roads (6.9 km of
       paved roads and 31.1 km of earth roads), including the collateral drains.
  l Piped sewerage and on-site sanitation (Appraisal: US$8.9 million): (i) support to small
       enterprises; (ii) sensitization; (iii) construction of school amenities in 119 locations; (iv)
       development of on-site sanitation in Ouagadougou and extension of existing sewerage
       collecting waste water from main polluters, including design and construction of waste
       water treatment ponds; (v) strategic sanitation plan for Bobo-Dioulasso .
  l Waste management (Appraisal: US$3.6 million, Supplemental: US$4.2 million, total:
       US$7.8 million): (i) closing of existing open dumps and construction of two new landfills;
       (ii) design and construction of transfer stations; (iii) support to private enterprises; (iv)
       sensitization and development of direct cost recovery from beneficiaries.
  l Toxic and industrial waste (Appraisal: US$0.4 million): (i) pollution prevention audits and
       development of monitoring capacity of government agencies; (ii) financing and preparation
       of national action plan.

Component 2: Capacity building (Appraisal: US$7.6 million):

This component was designed to support the Government's urban policy and prepare the basis for
the decentralization process, through five sub-components:

  l Local resource mobilization(US$1.1 million): improvement of the current system for local
       financial resource mobilization, including (i) preparation of legislation and an adequate
       land and real property tax system and implementation plan; and (ii) improvement of cost
       recovery for sanitation and waste management.
  l Institutional framework for urban management (US$1.5 million): (i) reform of the land
       tenure act; (ii) development of the urban land market, (iii) support to the Direction
       Générale de l'Urbanisme et des Travaux Fonciers in the Ministry of Public Works,
       Habitat and Urbanism (MTPHU) through implementation of an Urban Information System
       (UIS) to improve planning and programming of investments, management of resources
       generated by the use of urban land, and contributing to the development of urban finance
       bases.
  l Technical assistance, training, and monitoring program (US$1.0 million): A technical
       assistance and training program to plan and implement the project and address institutional
       weaknesses, including environmental monitoring, land use issues, coordination of planning
       and investments, public information and education, and impact assessment of new
       investments.
  l Community Participation(US$3.4 million): (i) Demonstration of feasibility of participatory
       approach for making an investment program for social infrastructure and participation in
       maintenance of tertiary infrastructure (roads, drainage, door-to-door waste collection) and
       implementation of the approach; (ii) support to the Ministry of Local Governments (MAT)
       for developing local participation;
  l Housing development (US$0.7 million): implementation of a Guarantee Fund to increase
       incentives for the Caisses Populaires d'Epargne (CPE) to increase their loans for housing,



                                                  - 4 -

        guaranteeing up to 80% of loans in the event of default.

These components were closely linked to the project objectives. The decentralization process was
slowly starting up with the first municipal elections taking place in 1995. The capacity building
component support to central and local governments in urban management and enhancement of
community participation was designed to accompany this process of decentralization while
activities related to resource mobilization were included to ensure that financing of operation and
maintenance of infrastructure constructed under the project could take place. Support to the
National Decentralization Committee (Comité Nationale de Décentralisation - CND) for
designing and implementing the global framework for decentralization was planned as part of a
coordinated donor effort. The infrastructure component was designed to alleviate the most
pressing environmental problems and mobility issues in the two cities, while at the same time
creating the necessary platform for urban economic activities to continue to develop.

The PACVU was a direct follow-on to the Second Urban Project (Projet de Développement
Urbain 2 (PDU2) - P038506, implemented from 1990 to 1997), and the design of the PACVU
was founded on the experience of the PDU2. The infrastructure component would pick up where
the PDU2 left off in terms of upgrading urban infrastructure, financing investments in drainage
that could not be financed under the PDU2 as a result of an expected co-financing from an
international donor that did not materialize. Privatization of solid waste management built on the
achievements of the PDU2, which had financed SWM equipment and established functional SWM
services in the two cities. The entire component was designed in order to holistically address
urban environmental problems faced by the population by tackling urban mobility issues, waste
water and excreta management, drainage and solid waste management.

The capacity building component built on the work already done in the area of business tax
collection, street addressing, improved service delivery and strengthening of technical services
that took place under the PDU2. A delegated contracts management agency (Faso Baara) had
been developed under the Bank financed Public Works and Employment Project (P000300,
implemented from 1991 to 1996), and would be used to implement the works under the
community participation sub-component. This sub-component was a new approach to Community
Driven Development (CDD) in urban areas at the time, and built on a pilot carried out under PPF
financing showing the need for a new participatory methodology in support of the decentralized
governments. The housing sub-component was also built on an innovative approach, enabling
market-based lending to the low-income part of the population by guaranteeing housing loans
made from existing credit unions.

With only two components, but several sub-components, the PACVU was moderately complex.
Especially the capacity building component contained specific challenges at the institutional level.
However, the design built on considerable bank experience in the sector in Burkina Faso (two
previous urban projects and a public works project), and this was a considerable strength of the
design. The balance of upgrading urban infrastructure and assuring capacity building to enable the
municipalities and the central government to face the challenges they were confronted with and
mobilize resources for operation and maintenance of the implemented infrastructure was a further
strength.



                                                - 5 -

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised, but the supplemental credit financed activities under
Component 1 (infrastructure) that could not be financed under the original project, mostly due to
cost overrun but also because of the need to expand the scope of some of the infrastructure
services.

The specific construction works under Component 1 to be financed by the Supplemental Credit
were, as stated in the Memorandum: (i) 18 km of roads; (ii) landfill facilities (garages for trucks
and landfill equipment, platforms for compost production, aeration equipment for leachate
treatment ponds) to make them fully operational and better protect aquifers through improved
landfill construction methods; (iii) 58 solid waste transfer stations; (iv) 4 km of channeling of the
Wemtenga gully; and (v) tree planting and improvement of land to prevent occupation by
squatters along the rehabilitated drainage.

3.5 Quality at Entry:


Quality at entry is rated satisfactory, based on (i) the strategic relevance of the project
considering the strong link of objectives and components with the CAS and relevant national
policies; (ii) the incorporation into the project design of previous experiences in the sector; (iii)
the focus on sustainability of urban infrastructure and services funded by the project by addressing
the local resource mobilization needs; (iv) the innovative approaches developed for CDD and
housing finance; (v) an increasing reliance on the private sector for the delivery of urban
environmental services developed on a demand-based approach; and (vi) the strategic partnership
in financing this operation in parallel with the French Development Agency.

The privatization element in the SWM sub-component was a challenge to implement, as there was
no previous experience with this in the region. This sub-component would have benefitted from
an increased allocation of resources to support the transition process for the private operators to
take over.

There were weaknesses in the results framework as it was mostly process oriented and without
definition of baseline and targets. This has made it difficult to measure progress. However, this is
a mild criticism considering that the project was developed in 1993, at a time when this was not
standard practice in the Bank.

The residential tax could not be easily implemented for a country that was coming out of the
1983-1987 revolution, which had abolished private ownership of land. Implementation of this
aspect was identified as a risk at appraisal and clear commitment to implement reforms had been
obtained from the Ministry of Finance, Economy and Plan, including the preparation of an action
plan and manual of procedures.

A general Environmental Assessment was carried out at appraisal for the project, and all
construction of new infrastructure was planned to take place on unoccupied, publicly owned land.
The project was classified as category B, and adherence to safeguards policies was satisfactory.


                                                  - 6 -

An environmental and social supervision mission by ASPEN in November 2001 confirmed the
appropriateness of the procedures followed. Furthermore, an external environmental audit was
carried out during project implementation and confirmed the appropriateness of the procedures
that were in place.

The time between PCD and appraisal was three years. Part of the reason for this length of time
was a lack of commitment from the government in 1992-1993, while it was demonstrated that a
PIU in the Ministry of Finance would not be efficient, and that therefore the project had to be
transferred to Ministry of Works and Urban (MTPHU).               Some components, such as the
community participation, were innovative and required careful preparation and extensive
discussions with municipalities and communities. Other components, linked to the tax revenues
generation, required a lot of discussions with the Ministry of Finance. However, the timespan is
consistent with the preparation of other urban projects in the region during this period (early 90s')
and the delay had no major impact, as the Second Urban Project was still ongoing (closed in
1997).

The project was ready for implementation at appraisal, based on the pilots carried out under PPF
financing, the lessons incorporated in the design, and the government's commitment to the project
following the intensive discussions of 1992 and 1993.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


Achievement of objective is rated satisfactory. The PACVU has resulted in a significant
improvement in living conditions and provision of urban services to a large part of the 1.5 million
inhabitants of the two cities (see below). Targets for achievements of objectives are largely
missing from the SAR, and therefore the ICR makes use of incremental reasoning for rating
outcome. Based on the size of the population affected, the capacity built, the increased ability to
allocate resources to urban services, and the quality of the services delivered, the objectives were
achieved efficiently with minor shortcomings in terms of privatization of SWM and collection of
residential tax.

Objective (a) improve urban living conditions has been fully achieved.

The project has improved the living conditions of about 793,500 people in the Ouagadougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso in terms of improved accessibility with the construction and rehabilitation of
40.43 km of roads. Traffic counts carried out on selected roads show an average annual increase
in traffic along these roads of 20-25% per year. These roads have not only opened up access from
the poor neighborhoods to the economic centers of the cities, but also resulted in small shops
being installed along the rehabilitated roads, thus stimulating the informal sector and providing
income-generating opportunities.

As stated in the government completion report, the sanitation coverage of Ouagadougou is now
about 40% (versus 6% before the project, but compared to 50% target set at appraisal). All
primary schools in the two cities now have sanitary facilities compared to none at appraisal.



                                                - 7 -

However, lack of fencing around the school latrines has caused surrounding residents to use the
facilities, and only 60% of facilities are properly maintained.

The PACVU supported the development of a Strategic Sanitation Action Plan (SSAP) for
Ouagadougou and the implementation of the proposals through implementing collective sanitation
for industry (including pre-treatment), collective domestic sanitation, and implementing individual
solutions for most of the city. The development of the SSAP was duplicated in Bobo-Dioulasso.
Financing of on-site sanitation remains sustainable with 75% of the investment costs of facilities
and 100% of maintenance cost supported by households. The sanitation surcharge billed on water
consumption pays for the remaining 25% cost of the facilities as well as for marketing sanitation
(responsible for generating the large demand) and for training of local artisans. Ouagadougou is
the only city in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) that has developed a sustainable arrangement for
developing demand-based sanitation services.

A depollution fund for industry has been put in place with financing from the Office National de
l'Eau et de l' Assainissement (ONEA). This fund supports reduction of industrial pollution by
providing seed money for pollution control and pre-treatment facilities.

Rehabilitation of the two main drainage canals in Ouagadougou (Wemtenga and Zogona) and the
one in Bobo-Dioulasso (Houet) have dramatically reduced erosion of large tracks of land in
Ouagadougou and have impacted 280,000 persons who are no longer exposed to periodic
flooding and much less exposed to mosquitoes. The banks of the rehabilitated drainage have been
improved and are being used for recreational activities and small businesses.

Solid waste collection has gone up from 40% before the project to 55% after in Ouagadougou
and from 25% before to 50% after in Bobo-Dioulasso. Collection and transfer of solid waste and
landfill management have been privatized in both cities with some exceptions. In Ouagadougou
transfer is only privatized for one third of the city, as the price of hiring a private operator has so
far been prohibitively high compared to the available budget. This privatization is an achievement
in terms of setting up the conditions for sustainable delivery of solid waste management services
under PPP arrangements in a decentralized framework, and Bobo-Dioulasso and Ouagadougou
are pioneering such comprehensive arrangements in SSA. A slight shortcoming in the
privatization is the lack of training of personnel in the municipalities to fully master their role as
delegated contracts managers.

Objectives (b) develop urban services directly benefiting the low income groups and (c) promote
the active participation of the urban population in urban service development have been
achieved.

Community-based demand-driven tertiary infrastructure services have been implemented in
under-serviced low-income settlements in both cities, improving the living conditions of 27% of
the population. Half of these micro-projects are related to water and sanitation, while other
projects concern health facilities, access roads, public lighting, fencing of schools, and green
spaces.




                                                  - 8 -

Local participation units, Maîtrise d'OEuvre Sociale (MOS), are now established in the local
administrations to identify and implement tertiary demand-driven infrastructure in under-serviced
settlements. These mechanisms were developed in a successful cooperation with UNICEF, which
also was in charge of a sensitizing campaign in hygiene and health.

The Guarantee fund for housing improvement is rolling and the program has been extended to all
branches of the Credit Union in charge of running that program. This has set the stage for housing
finance for the middle class, low-income earners and non civil servants. Loans guaranteed by the
fund were given to people with income as low as US$57/month.

Objective (d) promote sustainability of urban environment services was largely reached.

The project supported the preparation of the "Textes d'Orientation de la Décentralisation", which
were approved by parliament in 1998, guiding the decentralization process. Support was also
given to relevant institutions to better provide urban environmental services.

A major achievement of the project has been to raise the financial resources of the cities. For
Ouagadougou this increase was on average 23% per year for the period 1996-2004 and for
Bobo-Dioulasso the increase was 11% per year over the same period. This increase will ensure
that the necessary resources are available to maintain the implemented infrastructure. Progress in
collection of business tax has been the major factor in the increased revenue generation.

Another major achievement is the elaboration of a residential tax database in the two cities with
an interface to the water and sanitation utility company ONEA and to the electricity company
(Société Nationale Burkinabè d'Electricité - SONABEL) to assure the accuracy of the declaration
of the tax and the alignment of the utility companies' databases. 70,000 households are registered
in the residential tax database for Ouagadougou. For Bobo-Dioulasso the figure is 37,000
households.

After a slow start, the residential tax is showing promising tendencies with a doubling of
collection from 2004 to 2005, and the latest decision of the Government to have billing and
collection of the residential tax carried out by the same unit, the Directorate of Tax, will improve
the situation. Having tax collection managed by the same entity offers economies of scale and
efficiency in the management of this local tax. It also increases the prospect of addressing the rate
issue and increase the buoyancy of this tax and therefore its larger contribution to the financing of
urban services.

A top-notch urban information system based on the street addressing map and a database has been
established to facilitate urban management.

4.2 Outputs by components:


Component 1: Infrastructure (Total estimate (appraisal and supplemental): US$53.2 million.
Actual US$46.9 million)

The output of component 1 is rated satisfactory.


                                                 - 9 -

Referring to Annex 1, the project has largely achieved its outputs. The drainage networks were
completed as foreseen at appraisal, slightly surpassing the target in Ouagadougou. The project
financed the construction of 40.43 km of roads vs. the target of 38 km mentioned in the SAR.
More kilometers were constructed as paved rather than earth roads, as decided prior to the
approval of the supplemental.

Sanitation services have been markedly improved with the construction of 57,160 on-site
sanitation facilitiesand 119 school latrines. The main line of the first ever extended sewerage
network built in Ouagadougou has been completed, at a length of 40 km, of which AFD financed
32.9 km and a sewerage treatment plant and IDA financing the remainder of the system. The
project has been very effective in triggering partnerships, as programs defined by studies
conducted under the project for Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso are being financed by other
donors.

Construction of the core and basic components of the first sanitary landfills for domestic and
industrial solid waste disposal have been completed, as foreseen at appraisal. Cost-recovery has
been implemented, although payment remains low (at 16% for Bobo-Dioulasso, no figures
available for Ouagadougou). Supplemental Credit activities include the rehabilitation of the
Wemtenga gully of 4.1 kilometers, the asphalting of about 18 kilometers of urban roads (out of
the total 40.43 km), additional works on the two sanitary landfills and support to private sector
participation in domestic solid waste management in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso.

A depollution fund of CFAF 250 million is in place to fund improvements in toxic and industrial
waste management and a laboratory has been equipped to carry out environmental analysis. A the
time of ICR, a number of industries (a brewery, a tannery, and a butchery) are preparing
proposals to be submitted to the depollution fund for financing of pre-treatment facilities for
sewage.

Component 2: Capacity Building (Appraisal estimate US$ 7.6 million. Actual US$17.6 million)

The output of component 2 is rated satisfactory.

A computerized tax billing and collection system is in place in the two cities. Assessment and
billing of residential tax has been fully computerized and collection is picking up. The cities
dispose of an Urban Information System (UIS) as foreseen at appraisal. 1,296 persons have
received training to strengthen urban management capacity at city and government level.

A total of 126 micro-projects have been completed in the two cities, with local community
contribution to investment costs at 11% and local government contribution at 12%. A delegated
contracts manager, Faso Baara, was in charge of the works on behalf of the communities. 761
women have received training in hygiene, health and related subjects through a parallel UNICEF
project.

The development of the urban land market has shown some good progress, considering the fact



                                              - 10 -

that private land ownership was only reintroduced in 1987. In Ouagadougou, where the numbers
are available, about 13,500 occupant permits have been issued for an estimated 100,000 occupied
plots. The number is not higher due to opposition from the implicated services.

415 loans have been made under the Guarantee Fund for housing improvement amounting to
CFAF 486 million without default in repayment.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Ex-post economic analysis has been carried out for the road investments of the project, using the
Roads Economic Decision Model (RED). The analysis shows that road investments made under
Component 1 of the project are profitable, with an average ERR of 33%, slightly lower than
initially calculated during appraisal (65% for Ouagadougou and 48% for Bobo-Dioulasso).
However, comparison between SAR projections of ERR and actual rate of return can be
misleading, as a number of parameters changed between appraisal and actual implementation, as
described in detail in Annex 3.

ERR for the individual road sections varies from 7% to 70%, using conservative estimates for
input parameters. Moreover, this level of profitability does not take into account several other
benefits of the project, including: (i) advantages brought to the population; (ii) environmental
improvements; (iii) the value of time savings; (iv) the cost of congestion on existing roads that
were relieved once the alternate roads were paved; or (v) the benefits derived from induced traffic
on improved roads. Additionally, in the ex-post economic analysis, cash flows were discounted
using a discount rate of 12% (the Bank standard discount rate to be used for this type of analysis)
while a discount rate of 10% was used at the time of appraisal.

The net present value (NPV) of road investments is calculated as 19.9 billion CFAF for an
investment of 12.2 billion CFAF.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Financial rates of return were not calculated at appraisal for this type of non-revenue generating
project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:


The institutional development impact is rated high.

The project supported the drafting of legislation that set the framework for the decentralization
process (the Textes d'Orientation de la Décentralisation).

Introduction of the residential tax was an innovation, which built on the achievements of the
Second Urban Project. The structures for collecting residential taxes are now in place and fully
functional, and the revenues from this tax started to increase by 2004. Municipal revenues were
raised substantially, ensuring a sustainable delivery and financing of urban services. The capacity
of the government to collect urban tax has increased.



                                                - 11 -

The Government and the municipalities were strengthened in terms of municipal management
tools, such as an urban database and street addressing. The municipalities are now better able to
take into account the demands of the population in the planning process, through the local
participation units, Maîtrise d'OEuvre Sociale (MOS), which are now established in the local
administrations.

Private Sector Participation in solid waste management was strengthened and consolidated, and
the municipalities received training in SWM, ensuring more cost-effective delivery of services.

Finally, the guarantee fund allowed an existing lending institution to extend its service to the
middle class, low-income earners and non civil servants.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The political crisis in Côte d'Ivoire impacted the implementation of the road works, particularly in
Bobo-Dioulasso and had a tremendous impact on cost. From April 2004, the road contractors
faced huge difficulties to acquire bituminous products that were previously conveyed through
Abidjan harbor. The road construction works mainly in Bobo-Dioulasso have been tremendously
delayed until alternative provision through Ghana could be secured and this situation impacted the
pace of disbursement as well as the disbursement rate of the project. The Ivorian crisis also
induced an important reduction of economic activities in Bobo-Dioulasso that was reflected in the
lower level of local resources available for the financing budget of this city.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

It took 11 months to make both the initial project and the supplemental effective. At the time of
appraisal, this delay was a generic problem in Burkina Faso that affected almost all donor
supported project.

A general extreme slowness in administrative procedures and number of regulations contributed
to slow down the disbursement rate and therefore the overall performance of the project : (i) the
new procurement law adopted in August 1996 provided a framework for decentralized evaluation
and contract award procedures. However, processing of some of the largest contracts with
respect to drainage and construction of the landfills was delayed because of major interference in
the evaluation process from the evaluation and awarding committees; (ii) the need to have
contracts beyond a certain threshold approved by the Ministry procurement commission further
induced a number of procedural backlogs; (iii) it took a long time to have the Government
approve the bundling of the billing and collection responsibilities to a single entity which was the
Directorate of Taxes, and this lack of willingness to streamline this process impacted negatively
the performance of the residential tax for quite some period of time; and (iv) in 1995, the MTPHU
promulgated a ministerial ordinance that required a prior authorization of the Ministry for each
expense on the project account in commercial Banks. This had an important impact in slowing



                                                     - 12 -

down implementation at the beginning of the project.

At the outset of the project, the Government was very slow to adopt the new regulation for the
management of development projects. This delay impacted the project implementation unit
performance as project unit staff contracts could not be signed.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Implementation of the project was affected during the first years of the project by the poor
performance of the first project coordinator. This project coordinator was selected during the
preparation of the project and was maintained for the execution of the project as he was backed
up by the officials of the line ministry. He was finally removed following recommendations from
the Bank considering the low disbursement and the poor management that the project was
experiencing. Three coordinators managed the project. These changes did not affect the execution
of the project as the core team members of the Project Coordination Unit were in place during the
entire execution period of the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The original project costs were estimated in 1995 at US$51.1 Million. At the time of approval of
the Supplemental, the estimated cost was increased to US$72.8 Million. The estimated cost
increase of 42% was mostly related to changes experienced in the civil engineering and
construction market when bidding for the civil works contract took place. For example, unit cost
for road asphalting has increased from US$230,000 to US$492,000 per kilometer during the
implementation period (about a 110% increase). To cover the difference in cost, a supplemental
was approved by the board in March 2002.

The final cost was US$67.8 Million, 7.2% less than the Supplemental estimate. The breakdown of
project financing among IDA, the Central Government, and the municipalities or community has
evolved with IDA providing 83.8% (compared to 75% at appraisal), Government and
beneficiaries 11.2% (compared to 15.2 % at appraisal) other donors 5 % (compared to 9.7% at
appraisal). Annex 2 provides the detailed information on project costs and financing.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:


Sustainability is rated likely.

The project was the third in a series of urban projects carried out with bank financing in Burkina
Faso. The achievements in improving the revenues of the municipalities of Ouagadougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso testify to the increased capacity of these municipalities to maintain infrastructure
and public services.

The sustainability of infrastructure investments is likely, as a result of increased municipal
revenues and better expenditures management. Both cities have increased their contribution to the
financing of solid waste services. The Technical Service Departments in both municipalities are in


                                                    - 13 -

charge of the operation and management of the drainage and road facilities built and
reconstructed. The resources for maintenance are inscribed in the municipal budgets, but
programming of maintenance of constructed drainage should be improved to prevent sanding up
and accumulation of waste in the long run.

Sustainability of the community­based approach is assessed through the efficiency of the
maintenance mechanism developed and implemented. In general, demand-driven community
infrastructures are well maintained, as local management committees are in place to organize the
local populations in selection of projects and to assure funds for maintenance. 70% of these
committees are still functional, 78% of which dispose of maintenance funds. The two cities fully
endorse the approach. The units in charge of aggregating demand-driven projects have been
incorporated into municipal technical services of the two cities and funding allocated into the
municipal budget to cover operating costs. UNDP built on this experience to extend the approach
to other cities. Communities have kept on contributing to beneficiary counterpart funds accounts
for the programs they have identified and a number of projects are waiting for Government or
donor contribution.

Sustainability of the housing finance scheme is highly likely. The project provided support to an
existing lending institution (the CPE) to extend their services into the area of housing loans. The
loans were reimbursed without having to tap into the guarantee fund that was established to
provide confidence to the CPE and jump-start the housing loan program. Demand has been high
in both cities and as a consequence, the local savings bank is looking at the possibility of scaling
up this program to other cities. Thanks to the good financial management of the fund and the low
risk, annual potential of new loans that could be committed from the guarantee fund could reach
1,000 loans per year to benefit about 6,000 people.

Privatization of SWM is fairly completed in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso. The challenge is
to ensure that both municipalities will be able to increase the resources allocated to the financing
of the transfer and disposal activities needed to have a functional solid waste management system.
Collection has been privatized and funding of collection is done under user fees arrangement.
Increasing revenues from the residential tax will be critical in this respect. The current intuitional
grounding of the residental tax, the computerization of its billing and the comprehensiveness of
the residential data base represent good prospects for supporting SWM operations in both cities.
The full operationalization of the SWM process implies an important effort in terms of additional
resources to be allocated to this service, which can only be provided over time.

Sustainability of the on-site sanitation investments and sewerage. The sustainable financing
mechanism developed within ONEA (described under section 4.1) forms the basis of the strategic
sanitation plan of Ouagadougou. The same system has been implemented in Bobo-Dioulasso
based on the positive results in Ouagadougou. ONEA has a good track record from 15 years of
managing sanitation services and is a well staffed utility company. Regarding the school sanitation
component, the hygiene education component to be financed by the EU did not materialize and
this hampered the consolidation of the outcomes in schools.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Most of the project activities were already integrated into the regular operation of the executing


                                                  - 14 -

agencies, which has minimized the need for special transition arrangements. However, assuring
sustainability of funding for the privatization of SWM in Ouagadougou and following up on the
performance of the residential tax would be required to realize the full potential of the project.
Funding for privatization of SWM in Ouagadougou is available in 2006, as the municipality's
resources grows. The continued improvement in performance of the residential tax will be assured
with the latest decision of the Government to have billing and collection of the residential tax
carried out by the same unit, the Directorate of Tax.

A follow-up capacity-building project by the Bank is planned for board presentation in FY06. This
project will support the continued progress in SWM services and the monitoring of continued
improvements in urban management in the two cities. The project will be rolled out to the major
secondary cities.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


The quality of Bank lending is rated Satisfactory. Technical project design work (financed
through two PPF advances) was consistently well-prepared. The Bank made good use of partners
in the field, most notably the Water and Sanitation Program (WSP) staff in Abidjan. The Bank
preparation team was of the appropriate skills mix to the identified components, and served with
continuity from identification to Board approval. The factors which led to the need for a
supplemental credit were outside the control of the Bank and the implementing agency.
Preparation work for the Supplemental reflected well the extent of project implementation
completed at the time of the Supplemental and easily adhered to both institutions' procedures for
processing. The need for a Supplemental was anticipated early and prepared in an efficient manner
in order to allow for a continuation of works.

7.2 Supervision:


The quality of Bank supervision is rated Satisfactory. Considering the length of the project,
including supplemental, the count of three Task Team Leaders in total demonstrates continuity.
Additionally, transition between Task Team Leaders was facilitated by the continued presence of
the former TTL in the same unit after hand-off to the new TTL in both cases. As noted in the
Borrower's ICR, although the number of supervision missions scheduled in the SAR was not met,
it should be recognized that the mission composition and the pertinence of reporting
(Aide-Memoires, Back-to-Office reports, and PSRs/ISRs) resulted in efficient implementation
support to the project activities. Furthermore, a part of the supervision budget was allocated to
local staff to carry out ongoing supervision. Reporting was thorough and transparent between
client and Bank.

An environmental and social supervision mission by ASPEN in November 2001 confirmed the
appropriateness of the procedures followed.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:



                                                - 15 -

Overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory. Bank performance has been consistent and
pro-active, with frank and detailed technical reporting one commendable strength of both design
and implementation support phases.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:


The quality of Borrower preparation is rated Satisfactory. Project management was transferred
from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Public Works, Housing, and Urbanism in January
1993, prior to pre-appraisal, By mid-1993, a project unit was completely set-up, including the
secondment of two technical staff for public works and sanitary aspects. This project unit led
studies needed to appraise the related investments as well as complementary studies on housing
and urban development components. When the Government and the Bank, in the context of
pre-appraisal, supported the addition of a significant investment component for Bobo-Dioulasso,
preparation processes were amended apace to include this work.

7.5 Government implementation performance:


Government implementation performance is rated Marginally Satisfactory. Credit effectiveness
for both the project and the supplemental were delayed by 11 months, due to central government
bureaucracy. Similarly, there was a lag in government release of counterpart funding at project
onset as well as lags across the board in procurement processing due to the low threshold level for
prior review, with items of more than CFAF 1 million needing to pass through the Commission
d'Attribution des Marchés (CAM).

However, timely provision of counterpart funds during the major part of the project made the
physical and financial achievements possible. The government also showed commitment to
implementing the urban tax and to privatization of SWM.

7.6 Implementing Agency:


Implementing agency performance is rated Satisfactory. The beginning of the project was slow
due to lack of clarification of personnel status of those working on the project, i.e. whether they
were on externally-funded contracts or rather seconded from the government. The first project
coordinator was not able to move the project forward at an acceptable pace, and was eventually
replaced. However, once these issues were settled, the agency was instrumental in keeping the
project on track.

The performance of ONEA is rated satisfactory, based on the fact that works were delivered on
time and within the agreed price.

"Faso Baara's performance is rated satisfactory. As delegated contracts manager for the
community participation sub-component, Faso Baara cooperated with the MOS to assure the
liaison between the communities and enterprises executing the works.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:



                                               - 16 -

Overall borrower performance is rated Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Continuity is key to long term development impact. The Urban Environment Project is the third
generation of bank-financed urban interventions in Burkina Faso and has built on lessons and
achievements of previous projects. Continuity in World Bank technical assistance and investment
lending allows for persistent policy dialogue. This leads to a consistent set of activities for
improved service delivery and municipal development while keeping up with huge investments
needs. Continuity also paved the way for steady progress on the critical decentralization agenda.

Reforming and improving local tax systems takes time and requires a long-term commitment that
exceeds the lifetime of a project. The objectives have to be limited to specific outputs. Using a
step-wise approach and focusing on institutional strengthening at the beginning is essential. Goals
at the outcome level can only be expected in increments over a longer period of time.

Privatizing solid waste management systems should be implemented by clearly defined steps and
with continuous support over time. The relative success of the SWM privatization under the
project comes from the progressive approach and the reliance on local private contractors.
However, privatization of SWM system can only be implemented as financing becomes available.
Privatization should include support to capacity building, production of specfications, contract
management, and enforcement of regulations.

Demand generation and tariff structure explains the success of the sanitation program. The pilot
showed that it is possible to generate a demand for sanitation, via information campaigns, and this
experience was succesfully scaled up in the project. Supported by the tariff structure, with a
surcharge on water paying for 25% of the investment costs of sanitation facilities, this was
sufficient to expand the sanitation coverage considerably.

Community-based approaches developed by the project proved to be efficient to identify sound
investments programs and secure both capital and maintenance funds. Communities were willing
to provide 11% of investment costs. Furthermore 70% of the local management committees are
still functional and 78% of these dispose of maintenance funds. The support units created in the
technical departments provided necessary support to the committees.

Housing finance is a highly demanded product and limited support at the institutional level can
give substantial results. The project supported a guarantee mechanism for housing loans, which
could be implemented within the framework of the existing financial institutions (Caisses
Populaires d'Epargne), expanding their reach to low-income borrowers. With the CPE having
the responsibility for due dillingence and all legal actions before charging the fund in case of loan
default, there have so far been no payments made from the fund.

Linking capacity building to investment programs increases the incentive to improve
performance of urban management. This link gives stakeholders the opportunity to develop their
implementation skills while ensuring an immediate impact on the ground in terms of service



                                                 - 17 -

delivery and local economic development.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
AFD was not able to provide comments despite several attempts to contact the agency. The AfD
staff responsible for the project during implementation was transfered to another country and this
situation may explain the lack of responsiveness.

10. Additional Information




                                               - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


  Outcome Indicators:
                     Indicator                              Projected in SAR (EOP)                                     Actual
  Additional population gaining access to         No target available                             793,500
  roads. *
 Additional population protected from periodic    No target available                             280,000
 flooding. *
 Additional population getting access to          SAR Annex 1: 50% of the population of           40% of the population
 sanitation. *                                    Ouagadougou.
 Additional population getting access to tertiary No target available                             27%
 infrastructure
 Increase in collection of solid waste*           No target available                             Ouagadougou:from 40% to 55%
                                                                                                  Bobo-Dioulasso:             from 25% to 50%
  Increase in municipal revenues.                 For both cities: + 50% for the project duration Ouagadougou:                +24% annual
                                                  with respect to 1991-1994 average.              Bobo-Dioulasso:             +11% annual




  Output Indicators:
                     Indicator                              Projected in SAR (EOP)                                     Actual
  Km of primary drainage rehabilitated.*          Ouagadougou:          7.6 km                    Ouagadougou:                8.2 km
                                                  Bobo-Dioulasso:       5.0 km                    Bobo-Dioulasso:             5.0 km
 Km of rehabilitated roads.                       Total:                38.0 km                   Total:                      40.43 km
                                                  Ouagadougou:          24.75 km                  Ouagadougou:                28.10 km
                                                  Bobo-Dioulasso:       13.25 km                  Bobo-Dioulasso:             12.33 km
                                                  Total paved:          6.9 km                    Total paved:    32.43 km
                                                  Total earth:          31.1 km                   Total earth:    8.00 km
 Number of on-site sanitation facilities built.*  No baseline available                           57,160
 Number of school latrines built.                 119                                             119
 Km of sewer constructed.                         No target available                             7.1 km (plus 32.9 km financed by AFD)
 Number of sanitary landfills built.*             2                                               2
 Number of transfer stations built                58**                                            49
 Solid waste management system in place in        Yes                                             Yes, but not fully privatized in
 Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso.*                                                                 Ouagadougou, as foreseen at appraisal
 Depollution fund for industry in place           Yes                                             Yes (financed by ONEA)
 Computerized billing and collection system in    No target available                             System in place. Billing increased to 204M
 place. Amount of residential tax collected in                                                    CFAF in 2004 vs. 170M CFAF in 2002 and
 Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso.*                                                                 80M CFAF in 2003. Collection doubled
                                                                                                  from 24M CFAF in 2004 to 50M CFAF in
                                                                                                  2005
 Urban Information System in place in the two     Yes                                             Yes
 cities
 Number of staff trained.                         No target available                             1296 persons
                                                                                                  314 staff days of training
 Number of demand-driven tertiary                 No target available                             126
 infrastructure installations
 Number of housing loans made*                    No target available                             415
Indicators marked with a "*" were not included in the SAR monitoring and performance indicators but have
been added for the ICR.
Indicators marked with a "**" come from the Memorandum for the Supplemental Credit.




                                                                - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
SourceofFunds     Appraisalestimate1995  Appraisalestimate2002          Actual       Percentageofappraisal2002
                                   Other                 Other                 Other                  Other
                  IDA     Govt.   donors IDA     Govt.   donors   IDA   Govt.  donors IDA    Govt.   donors
Component1         31.72     4.60    3.00 39.45    5.43    3.00    39.39  5.15   2.34 99.85% 94.84%     78.00%


Component2          4.58     3.17    2.00 18.67    3.36    2.00    15.12  1.45   1.02 80.99% 43.15%     51.00%


Component3          0.60     0.03    0.00 0.81     0.08    0.00    2.35   1.03   0.00


PPFrefinancing      1.40


     TOTAL         38.30     7.80    5.00 58.93    8.87     5.00   56.86   7.63  3.36 96.49% 86.02%     67.20%

                                                       TotalActual       67.85




Component1      39.39+5,15+2,34=45,51

Component2      15,12+1,45+1,02=16,25

Component3      2,35+1,03=3,38




                                               - 20 -

Actual Costs (in US$ million Equivalent)
                                                           Local         Foreign        Total     % of Foreign
                                                         Currency
A. Restoration of Primary Infrastructure Networks

Drainage                                                     11,001.64     3,250.41     14,252.05      22.81%

Primary Road Network Rehabilitation                           4,590.92    14,464.65     19,055.57      75.91%

Piped Sewage and on-site Sanitation                             327.30     1,309.20      1,636.50      80.00%

Solid Waste Management                                        5,985.39     2,261.60      8,246.99      27.42%

Toxic and Industrial Waste Management                         2,748.80       937.20      3,686.00      25.43%
                                       TOTAL                 24,654.05    22,223.06     46,877.11       47.41%
B. Capacity Building

Local Resource Mobilization                                   2,418.59         0.00      2,418.59       0.00%

Urban Management                                              3,906.10     1,615.05      5,521.15      29.25%

Training/Human Resource Dev. Program                            371.49                     371.49       0.00%

Community Participation                                       8,556.45                   8,556.45       0.00%

Housing Development                                             725.89                     725.89       0.00%
                                       TOTAL                 15,978.52     1,615.05     17,593.57       9.18%
C. Operating Cost                                             3,382.59                   3,382.59       0.00%



Total Cost                                                   44,015.16    23,838.11     67,853.27       35.13%



                                                 Procurement Method
Expenditure Category               ICB            NCB          Other          N.B.F       Total Cost

1. Works                                 40.21         3.31           0.00          0.00         43.52
                                   (41,98)           (0,00)       (2,44)          (0,00)       (44,41)
2. Goods                                 2.85          1.63           0.00          0.00          4.48
                                    (0,60)          (0,11)        (0,00)          (0,00)        ( 0,71)
3. Services                              0.00          0.00           8.86          0.00          8.86
                                    (12,22)         '(0,00)        (7,80)        '(0,00)        (20,02)
4.Operating Cost                         0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
                                    (0,00)          (0,00)        (0,00)         (0,00)         (0,00)
5.Miscellaneous                          0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
                                    (0,00)          (0,00)        (0,00)         (0,00)         (0,00)
6. Miscellaneous                         0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
                                    (0,00)          (0,00)        (0,00)         (0,00)         (0,00)
Total                                    43.06         0.12           8.86          0.00         56.86
                                  (42,58)           (0,11)        (6,34)         ( 0,00)




                                                   - 21 -

Financing Plan (including Suppplemental)


Source of Funds                           LOCAL                    FOREIGN              TOTAL             %
                                 1995     2002              1995    2002
                                Estimate Estimate Actual  Estimate Estimate Actual Estimate Actual Estimate Actual
Government and Beneficiaries        7.80     8.87    7.63     0.00     0.00    0.00    8.87   7.63     12%     11%


IDA - Proposed Project             17.30     22.93  26.50     19.60    36.00  30.36    58.93 56.86     81%     84%

Other Donors                        2.30     2.30    1.02     2.70     2.70    2.34    5.00   3.36      7%     5%


            TOTAL                   27.40    34.10  35.15     22.30    38.70  32.70    72.80  67.85    100%   100%




                                                       - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The urban road rehabilitation and reconstruction component of the Project included rehabilitation
and reconstruction of existing roads in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso. The SAR indicates an
average ERR of 65% for road rehabilitation/reconstruction in Ouagadougou and 48% for road
rehabilitation/reconstruction in Bobo-Dioulasso, with the lowest result at 30% and the highest
result at 132%.

An ex-post economic analysis was carried out on the complete set of road sections, which have
been subject to investments in the two cities (13 road sections in total). Comparison with the
SAR, especially in terms of ERR, can be misleading as: (i) some specific road sections originally
listed in the SAR (Ave du conseil de l'entente, Cité Avenir route Fada, Prolongement
Périphérique, Av. Centrale route Fada, and Ancien Périphérique ­ Bassawargha) were finally not
constructed (as most of them were financed by the Government to accommodate the organization
of many international events that took place in Ouagadougou) and are therefore not subject to this
analysis; (ii) the supplemental credit enabled the financing of additional kilometers of roads not
originally planned at the time of project appraisal in 1995 (because some of the roads were
already financed by the Government and the agreement was for the project to catch up with the
length of the roads to be financed by the project in the first place) and five road sections in
Bobo-Dioulasso were grouped together for bidding; and (iii) some key inputs used in the
economic analysis at the time of appraisal (in particular the Index of Roughness) are not known
and probably differ from the ones used in the ex-post economic analysis, which has been
conservative. However, with the data available today (traffic counting carried out in 2005, costs
known from the actual bids on the roads, knowledge of the road index of roughness resulting
from the investments actually made, and estimates in Vehicle Operating Cost), it is possible to
carry out an ex-post economic analysis on all road sections financed by the project.

Methodology used for the ex-post economic analysis. Traffic counting was carried out in 2005
for each type of main vehicle (motorbikes, cars, trucks - see Table 1 below). To determine net
incremental costs and benefits of the road investments, "with" and "without" project were
considered. On the basis of these scenarios, the net incremental financial benefits and costs of the
proposed investment programs were assessed. These were then adjusted for the impact of taxes,
subsidies and externalities to arrive at the economic cost and benefit streams. Costs include capital
costs, operation and maintenance costs, and rehabilitation costs. The ex-post economic analysis
was performed using the Roads Economic Decision Model (RED). RED was developed under the
Road Management Initiative (RMI), a component of the Sub-Saharan Africa Transport Policy
Program (SSATP) aiming at improving the decision-making process for the development and
maintenance of low-volume roads. The model performs an economic evaluation of road
investment options using the consumer surplus approach and is customized to the characteristics
of low-volume roads such as i) the high uncertainty of the assessment of the model inputs,
particularly the traffic and conditions of unpaved roads; ii) the importance of vehicle speeds for
model validation; iii) the need for a comprehensive analysis of generated and induced traffic; and
iv) the need to clearly define all accrued benefits. RED computes benefits for normal, generated,
induced, and diverted traffic, and takes into account changes in road length, conditions in the dry
and wet seasons, geometry, surface type, and accident rates. RED was used rather than HDM
because of the type of investments (earth roads into paved/gravel roads). The IRI used in the


                                                - 23 -

"benchmark" option (without project) was set to 8, which is conservative and below the IRI used
at the time of appraisal given the ERR obtained in the SAR. Consequently, a sensitivity analysis
was therefore run with an IRI of 12.

The results are shown in the Economic Analysis Summary Table 1 below. As shown in this table,
there has been an increase of 36% between traffic estimates at the time of appraisal and actual
traffic in 2005. Total costs have increased to 12.3 billion FCFA, up from the 11.4 billion FCFA,
which is the sum of appraisal estimates (for the road sections financed by the original credit) and
estimates at the time of the supplemental credit (for the road sections financed by the
supplemental). As shown in the summary table, the variation in costs differs according to the road
section considered, with some road sections ending up more expensive, and some less expensive.
The analysis shows that the road sections are economically justifiable, with 12 road sections
totally economically justifiable (with ERR varying between 19% and 70%) and 1 road section
being marginally economically justifiable (with an ERR of 7% for a section located in
Bobo-Dioulasso. The relatively low ERR for this latter section is explained by a cost/km of 454 M
FCFA, higher than the average cost/km of 303 M FCFA, which was not compensated by the
traffic increase (between estimates and actual). The average ERR on all road sections is 33%. The
total NPV for the road component of the project amounts to 19.9 billion FCFA (to be compared
to 7.2 billion FCFA in SAR). Using a sensitivity analysis with an IRI of 12 for the benchmark
option (as mentioned previously in the Methodology), all the sections are economically justifiable,
with an average ERR of 65%.


Table 1. Summary of Economic Analysis on five road sections

                                                                           Trafic                                      Sensitivity
                                                                          forecast                                     Analysis if
                             Investment cost                              for 2005           Road                     benchmark
                                estimated at                             estimated  Actual section  Actual               IRI = 12
                             project appraisal Actual investment at project        trafic in length cost/km     NPV (M (instead of
     Road Section                 (M FCFA)          cost (M FCFA)        appraisal  2005      (km) (M FCFA) ERR FCFA)       8)
OUAGA

Bd des Tansoba                    133,000,000             948                24,519 16,122     3.30     287  38% 1305          79%
Prolongement                      252,000,000                                                  3.20
Babanguida                                                919                15,401 22,154              287  55% 2725        117%
Prolongement Oumarou              179,000,000                                                  2.50
KANAZOE                                                   712                10,448 17,115              285  36%   519         76%
Ancien Boulevard                  231,000,000                                                  2.80
périphérique                                              355                 8,196 11,774              127  61% 1234        143%
Rue Radio Rurale                  431,000,000             317                 8,349  8,177     2.50     127  52% 1664        113%
Rue 15.236                        179,000,000             342                 9,077  6,751     2.70     127  36%   551         78%
Rue 23.02                      1,776,000,000             1429                 6,809 21,140     4.80     298  50% 5839          85%
Rue 24.01                      1,536,000,000             1636                12,657  8,004     3.20     511  19%   687         35%
Rue 14.54                         720,000,000             830                13,677 40,703     1.50     553  60% 2839        122%
Rue 30.02                         624,000,000             514                 8,053 24,011     1.60     321  70% 2248        119%
BOBO

Boulevard Chalon en
Champagne                      1,250,000,000             1199                12,180  7,108     5.30     226  20%   517         43%
Rue 22 (A-B-C-D)              2,736,000,000              2383                3,021  4,634      5.00     454   7%  -530         17%
Av. Gouverneur                 1,344,000,000                                                   2.03
Louveau                                                   694                16,406 12,872              342  20%   316         27%
TOTAL/average                                           12278                                           303  33% 19914         65%
    NB: Average traffic is made of motorbikes (79%), cars (20%), and trucks (1%)




                                                                                 - 24 -

It should be noted that the economic analysis does not take into account all advantages brought
by the investments, including: (i) advantages brought to the population, estimated at about
793,500 urban residents, as calculated in Table 2; (ii) environmental improvements; (iii) the value
of time savings; (iv) the cost of congestion on existing roads that were relieved once the alternate
roads were paved; or (v) the benefits derived from induced traffic on improved roads.
Additionally, in the ex-post economic analysis, cash flows were discounted using a discount rate
of 12% (the Bank standard discount rate to be used for this type of analysis) while a discount rate
of 10% was used at the time of appraisal.

Table 2. Cost Effectiveness Analysis


                                                                       Investment/Po
                                                                           pulation
                                Population          Population              Served
        Road Section              served        served/Kilometer        (US$/person)
 OUAGA

 Bd des Tansoba                        37500                   11364           46
 Prolongement Babanguida
                                       70000                   21875           24
 Prolongement Oumarou
 KANAZOE                               20000                    8000           65
 Ancien Boulevard
 périphérique                          40000                   14286           16
 Rue Radio Rurale                      40000                   16000           15
 Rue 15.236                            20000                    7407           31
 Rue 23.02                             60000                   12500           44
 Rue 24.01                            100000                   31250           30
 Rue 14.54                            150000                  100000           10
 Rue 30.02                            100000                   62500            9
 BOBO


 Boulevard Chalon en
 Champagne                             29000                    5472           76
 Rue 22 (A-B-C-D)                     87000                   23537           77
 Av. Gouverneur Louveau                40000                   19704           32
 TOTAL/average                        793500                   25684           37


NB: Rue 22 (A-B-C-D) results from the gathering of Rue 10.21, Rue 10.73, Rue 22.108, Rue 22.35, and Rue 22.61, mentioned
in the SAR




                                                         - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              1991                            (no records were found in
                                              Archive)
              April 1992                 2    MUNICIPAL FINANCE
                                              SPECIALIST (1)
              October 1992               1    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1)
              January 1993               2    MUNICPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                              CONSULTANT (1)
              February 1993              3    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                              MUNICIPAL FINANCE
                                              SPECIALIST (1); ECONOMIST
                                              (1)
              July 1993                  2    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                              FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                              SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation

              October 1993               3    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                              FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                              SPECIALIST (1);
                                              CONSULTANT (1)
              September 1994             5    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                                              FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                              SPECIALIST (1);
                                              CONSULTANT (1); HOUSING
                                              SPECIALIST(1); ACS (1)

 Supervision

              January 1995               1    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1)           S               S
              October 1995               2    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);          S              HS
                                              MUNICIPAL FINANCE (1);
                                              URBAN PLANNER (1)
              July 1996                  1    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1)           S               S
              February 1997              4    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);          S               S
                                              MUNICIPA FINANCE
                                              SPECIALIST (1);
                                              CONSULTANT (2)


              January 1998               1    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1)           S               S
              June 8-16, 1998            5    WATER AND SANITATION             S               S
                                              SPEC.
              June 15-28, 1998           5    WATER AND SANITATION             S               S
                                              SPEC. (1); FINANCIAL
                                              MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST




                                               - 26 -

                                           (2); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                                           (1);
               October 1999            4   WATER AND SANITATION               S    S
                                           SPEC. (1); FINANCIAL
                                           MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); CONSULTANT (2)
               March 2000              3   WATER AND SANITATION               S    S
                                           SPEC. (1); CONSULTANT (2)
               April 2001              3   WATER AND SANITATION               S    S
                                           SPEC. (1); FINANCIAL
                                           MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); CONSULTANT (2)
               May 2002                4   WATER AND SANITATION               S    S
                                           SPEC.(1); FINANCIAL
                                           MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); CONSULTANT (2)
               March 2003              4   WATER AND SANITATION               S    S
                                           SPEC. (1); FINANCIAL
                                           MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); CONSULTANT (2)
               May 2003                4   WATER AND SANITATION               S    S
                                           SPEC. (1); FINANCIAL
                                           MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); CONSULTANT (2)
               January 2004            3   FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT               S    S
                                           SPECIALIST (1);
                                           CONSULTANT (2)
               May 2005                3   FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT               S    S
                                           SPECIALIST (1);
                                           CONSULTANT (2)

 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            23.4                        98,723
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 60.5                       255,245
  Supervision                        125.36                        528,886
  ICR                                      7                       29,532.6
  Total                              216.26                        912,388




                                            - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

- Aide memoire for identification mission in April 1992
- Aide memoire for preparation mission in October 1992
- Aide memoire for preparation mission in January 1993
- Aide memoire for preparation mission in Febuary 1993
- Aide memoire for preparation mission in July 1993
- Aide memoire for pre-appraisal mission in October 1993
- Aide memoire for Appraisal mission in July 1994
- Aide memoire for Supervision mission in January 1995
- Aide memoire for Supervision mission in October 1995
- Aide memoire for Supervision mission in July 1996
- Aide memoire for Supervision mission in February 1997
- Aide memoire for Supervision mission in January 1998
- Aide memoire for Mid-term review in June 1998
- Aide memoire for Supervision mission in February 1999
- Aide memoire for Supervision mission in October 1999
- Aide memoire for Supervision mission in March 2000
- Aide memoire for Supervision mission in April 2001
- Aide memoire for Supervision mission in May 2002
- Aide memoire for Supervision mission in Mars 2003
- Aide memoire for Supervision mission in May 2003
- Aide memoire for Supervision mission in May 2005

- Borrower's implementation report May 2005
- PMU's Activity complementation report August 2005




                                                   - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of Government Implementation Completion Report

The summary from the government's project completion report is reproduced below, with the
preface to the complete report and list of acronyms and abbreviations.

                                           PREFACE



Ceci est le Rapport d'Achèvement du Projet d'Amélioration des Conditions de Vie Urbaines
(PACVU), pour lequel le gouvernement du Burkina Faso a bénéficié d'un crédit de l'IDA (crédit
n° 2728 ­ BUR) d'un montant de 24,8 millions DTS (37 millions de dollars US équivalents ). Il a
été approuvé le 14 juin 1995 et mis en vigueur le 30 mai 1996.

Les travaux du crédit 2728-BUR se sont achevés depuis le 31 mars 2002. Toutes certains
impondérables ont occasionnés la mis en place d'un crédit supplémentaire mis en vigueur en mars
2003 sous le n° 2728-1-BUR et d'un coût de 17,7 millions DTS.

Le présent rapport d'Achèvement qui prend en compte les deux crédits (initial et le supplément) à
été préparé et basé en grande partie sur les dossiers du projet notamment le rapport d'évaluation
de l'accord de crédit du 20 avril 1995, les rapports trimestriels élaborés par l'équipe du projet, les
aides-mémoires des missions de supervision de la Banque Mondiale dont il s'en inspire fortement.

Des entretiens avec des responsables des structures partenaires ou gestionnaires de certaines sous
composantes, avec les ministères concernés, avec la direction du projet, avec les services
techniques des municipalités et avec les populations bénéficiaires, ont été réalisés pour conforter
l'appréciation des résultats.


                                 SIGLES ET ABREVIATIONS


BAD :          Banque Africaine de Développement
BIT :          Bureau International du Travail
BTP :          Bâtiments et Travaux Publics
BUR :          Burkina
CAM :          Commission d'Attribution de Marchés
CCS :          Cellule de Coordination et de Suivie
CET :          Centre d'Enfouissement Technique
CFD :          Caisse Française de Développement
CIP :          Comité Interministériel de Pilotage
CPE :          Caisse Populaire d'Epargne
CR. :          Crédit
CSI :          Contribution du Secteur Informel
CTR



                                               - 31 -

DAO :                 Dossier D'Appels d'Offre
DGI :         Direction Générale des Impôts
DGTCP :       Direction Général du Trésor et de la Comptabilité Publique
DGUTF :       Direction Générale de l'Urbanisme et des Travaux Fonciers
DRI :         Direction Régionale des Impôts
DTS :         Droit de Tirages Spéciaux
FODEPI :      Fonds National de Dépollution Industrielle
IDA :         Association Internationale de Développement
IR :          Impôt sur les Revenus
IRSAT :       Institut de Recherche Scientifiques sur l'Assainissement
IS :          Impôts sur les Salaires
KFW :                 Institution de Financement Allemand
MITP :        Ministère des Infrastructures et de Travaux Publics
MOS :         Maîtrise d'Oeuvre Sociale
ONEA :        Office Nationale de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement
PACVU :       Projet d'Amélioration des Conditions de Vie Urbaines
PAS :         Programme d'Ajustement Structurel
PIB :         Produit Intérieur Brut
PNUD :        Programme des Nations Unies pour le Développement
PPF :         Fonds de Préparation et de Préfinancement
PSAB :                Plan Stratégique d'Assainissement de la ville de Bobo.
PUH :         Permis Urbain D' Habiter
RCPE :        Réseau des Caisses Populaires et d'Epargne
RSI :
SIU :         Système d'Information Urbain
SONABEL : Société Nationale Burkinabé d'Electricité
STM :         Services Techniques Municipaux
TPB :         Trésorier Principal de Bobo-Dioulasso
TPO :         Trésorier Principal de Ouagadougou
TVA :         Taxe sur la Valeur Ajoutée
UEMOA :       Union Economique et Monétaire Ouest Africain
UNICEF :      Union des Nations Unies pour l'Enfance
URCPC :       Union Régionale des Caisses Populaires du Centre
URCPO :       Union Régional des Caisses Populaires de l'Ouest
UTC :         Unité Technique de Coordination
VIP :         Latrines à Postes Ventilés
VRD :         Voirie et Réseau Divers
                            RESUME DE L'EVALUATION


1) INTRODUCTION


Le présent rapport d'achèvement évalue les activités menées dans le cadre du projet
d'amélioration des conditions de vie urbaines (PACVU) et conduite par la cellule de coordination
et de suivi (CCS) mise en place pour gérer le projet.


                                              - 32 -

2) OBJECTIF DU PROJET

L'objectif principal du projet était de préparer la décentralisation de la gestion du fonctionnement
et du contrôle de l'environnement urbain au bénéfice des communes de Ouagadougou et de
Bobo-Dioulasso. Cet objectif était d'autant plus noble que le projet intervenait juste après la mise
en place des premiers conseils élus au Burkina Faso (élections municipales de février 1995 ) et
aussi à la suite du deuxième projet urbain dont les acquis devraient être consolidés, pérennisés et
certains de ses actions poursuivies avec plus de responsabilité des bénéficiaires (information et
gestions urbaine, participation communautaire, mobilisation des ressources locales). De façon
globale, les objectifs ont été atteints, ce qui explique la satisfaction de l'ensemble des acteurs, des
partenaires et des bénéficiaires du projet.

3) RESULTATS

Les résultats enregistrés par le PACVU sont satisfaisants car le projet a atteint la plupart de ses
objectifs dans l'exécution de ses deux composantes.

·       Réhabilitation de la voirie primaire :

A la date du 31 mars 2002, date de fin des travaux du crédit principal (2728-BUR), les résultats
sont très satisfaisants pour cette sous-composante. A Ouagadougou 9,4 km de voies bitumées, 8
km de voies en terre, 33 km de caniveaux ont été réalisés pour environ 3,6 milliards F.CFA. A
Bobo-Dioulasso, 5,69 km de voies bitumées pour 1,2 milliards de F.CFA ont été également
réalisés à la grande satisfaction des autorités municipales et des populations.

Quant au crédit supplémentaire, 11,4 km de voies bitumées avec assainissement et éclairage public
, l'aménagement de quatre carrefours sont achevés à Ouagadougou et 7,4 km à Bobo-Dioulasso
de voies bitumées avec assainissement et éclairage public sont en cours d'exécution et devraient
être achevés avant le 30 juin 2005, le tout pour un montant de 7,49 milliards FCFA HT-HD.

Ces réalisations diverses ont contribué à assainir et améliorer le cadre de vie des populations. La
circulation a été rendu fluide et l'activité économique s'est développé tout au long de ces voies.

·       Renforcement du réseau primaire de drainage

Ces travaux ont porté pour l'essentiel sur l'aménagement des canaux de Zogona (4,2 km) et
Wemtenga (4,1 km) à Ouagadougou et du marigot Houet à Bobo-Dioulasso (1,8 km) avec des
ouvrages de franchissements. En dehors du canal de Wemtenga dont les travaux ont démarré en
avril 2003 (crédit supplémentaire), tous les autres travaux de cette sous composante à
Ouagadougou comme à Bobo-Dioulasso sont achevés et sont de très bonne facture. Seul point
d'ombre, l'entretien des infrastructures qui incombe aux communes et aux populations riveraines.

A noter dans ce cadre, la réalisation du schéma directeur de drainage des eaux pluviales à
Ouagadougou et à Bobo-Dioulassso.



                                                  - 33 -

·       Assainissement des eaux usées et des excréta

Trois types d'assainissement sont concernés par cette sous-composante :
-       l'assainissement collectif
-       l'assainissement autonome
-       l'assainissement scolaire.

Tout le programme a été exécuté conformément aux objectifs de départ et ce depuis l'an 2001.
Les résultats très satisfaisants sur cette sous-composante, ont porté le taux de couverture de
l'Assainissement de Ouagadougou de 6% à 40% aujourd'hui. L'impact est jugé positif pour les
actions entreprises. Les travaux ont été exécutés dans les limites de l'enveloppe (avec même des
économies substantielles) et dans les délais impartis. Le raccordement des usagers sur le système
d'assainissement collectif à Ouagadougou a démarré.

L'étude complémentaire du plan Stratégique d'Assainissement de Bobo (PSAB) est également
bouclée.

·       Gestion des déchets solides ménagers et industriels

Il s'est agi de la fermeture des décharges sauvages et de la construction de deux (02) décharges
contrôlées ou centres d'enfouissement techniques (CET) dont un à Ouagadougou et un autre à
Bobo-Dioulasso, les centre de collectes et beaucoup d'autres travaux connexes comme les cellules
pour ordures ménagères et industrielles, les bassins de traitement des lixiviats (renforcement du
laboratoire de l'IRSAT/CNRST), etc. Tous ces travaux sont terminés. Il reste à rendre
fonctionnel la chaîne de gestion des ordures de la pré collecte aux décharges par la signature des
contrats avec les prestataires privés.

·       Participation communautaire

27 % de la population des deux villes sont touchés par la mise en oeuvre des activités de cette
sous-composante. 126 micro-projets ont été réalisés dans les deux villes pour un montant
d'environ 1,2 milliards de F.CFA dont 125 millions F.CFA de contributions financières directes
des populations et 140 millions F.CFA au titre des municipalité. Cette opération inédite a
rencontré l'adhésion des populations et leur engouement qui s'est manifesté même après la fin du
projet. Il appartient aux communes de prendre la relève du projet et de pérenniser cette démarche
porteuse d'espoir pour le financement des infrastructures des communes.

·       Mobilisation des ressources locales

Les objectifs n'ont pas été tout à fait atteints sur cette sous composante en ces aspects d'efficacité
de recouvrement des taxes de résidence et de jouissance. La réorganisation et le renforcement de
la chaîne foncière n'ont pas totalement abouti et n'ont pas donné les résultats escomptés qui
étaient d'améliorer les recettes municipales, même si par ailleurs on note une augmentation des
recettes des municipalités.



                                                  - 34 -

Environ 740 millions ont été investis pour le renforcement des capacités d'intervention de la DGI
et de la DGTCP entre 1997 et 2002. Pour la même période et sur les deux villes, 743 millions de
taxes de résidence ont été recouvrées. Ce qui est dérisoire au regard des capacités réelles des deux
villes pour cette taxe. La situation n'est pas meilleure pour ce qui concerne la taxe de jouissance
dont seulement environ 540 millions ont été reversés aux deux villes en 2002.

Dans cette sous-composante, le système d'informations urbaines et l'adressage semblent être les
aspects les plus réussis. Le SIU est disponible depuis novembre 2003. Les travaux de pose des
plaques dans les deux villes sont terminés.

·       Fonds de garantie des prêts à l'habitat du RCPE.

L `exécution de cette sous composante a permis d'octroyer 152 prêts sans avoir à activer la
garantie. Au total, au niveau des caisses populaires, 636 dossiers pour un montant de 646 millions
de FCFA ont été octroyés aux ménages demandeurs soit environ 1100 prêts pour un montant
cumulé de 1,250 milliards F.CFA. La production de crédits à l'habitat pour les caisses populaires
est un instrument efficace pour la résolution des problèmes d'habitat au bénéfice des ménages à
revenus modestes.

A ce niveau, les objectifs ont été pleinement atteints avec un taux de recouvrement satisfaisant de
près de 98% et sans un recours au fonds de garantie. Toutefois, compte tenu de l'engouement que
suscite cette pratique au niveau des populations urbaines, il serait juste et noble d'étendre
l'opération aux villes secondaires émergentes et d'assouplir les conditions d'accès en incluant les
achats de parcelles. Le fonds de garantie actuel pourrait être utilisé à cet effet.

4) FACTEURS IMPORTANTS AFFECTANT LE PROJET

Ces facteurs sont pour la plupart inhérents au démarrage du projet et qui ont été résolus au fur et
à mesure que le projet gagnait en maturité. On peut citer entre autre, la question de statut du
personnel non clarifié au départ et qui a démotivé un temps soit peu ce personnel ; il y a aussi la
réglementation des marchés publics qui a occasionné des lourdeurs procédurières et donc des
retards dans l'attribution des marchés et l'exécution des travaux.

Autre facteur important ayant influencé la gestion du projet, c'est le changement à trois (03)
reprises de coordonnateur du projet. Trois (03) coordonnateurs se sont succédés à la tête du
projet de 1996 à 2003.

5) PERENNITE DU PROJET.

L'achèvement du projet ne doit pas signifier la fin des actions engagées sous le projet ou avec
l'appui du projet. Des activités ont été initiées et doivent se poursuivre avec des structures
ministérielles (DGI, DGTCP) pour la mobilisation des ressources, avec les municipalités pour
l'adressage , la mobilisation des ressources et surtout le volet participation communautaire.




                                                - 35 -

Les résultats satisfaisants et démonstratifs enregistrés devraient être des leitmotiv pour ces acteurs
à poursuivre ce qu'ils ont commencé et conduit avec l'appui du PACVU ; d'autant plus qu'ils ont
été pleinement responsabilisés dans la conduite des opérations. La pérennisation devrait être de ce
fait un credo pour l'impulsion d'un véritable développement à la base.

6) PERFORMANCE DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE

La performance de la Banque Mondiale a été satisfaisante, particulièrement pendant la préparation
et la supervision du projet. Malgré le nombre limité de missions de supervision contrairement à ce
qui avait été prévu à l'évaluation, il faut reconnaître que la composition des missions et la
pertinence des rapports ont permis un suivi efficace des activités. Ce n'est donc pas le nombre des
missions qui importe mais plutôt la qualité des hommes de la mission et des rapports produits.

7) PERFORMANCE DU GOUVERNEMENT BUKINABE

La performance du gouvernement est mitigée . Il a respecté son engagement de libérer sa
contrepartie même si cela s'est fait souvent avec du retard au début comme ce fut le cas en 1998.
Mais cette obligation a été correctement respectée par la suite.

8) LE DELAI DE REALISATION

Le projet a été lancé en juillet 1996 avec une fin prévue pour 2000 et la clôture du crédit pour le
premier trimestre 2001. Mais il y a eu un dépassement de délai et les travaux se sont poursuivi
jusqu'en fin 2003. Avec la mise en place du crédit supplémentaire en mars 2003 , la fin du projet
se situe en fin 2004 et la clôture du crédit supplémentaire pour juin 2005. Les raisons de report de
la clôture du crédit sont dues au retard enregistré dans l'exécution qui eux sont à rechercher dans
:
-       La mise en vigueur tardive des crédits principal (5 mois) et supplémentaire (11 mois) ;
-       Le démarrage tardif de certaines composantes ;
-       L'extrême lenteur des procédures administratives et d'attribution des marchés ;
-       La non maîtrise des procédures de la Banque Mondiale par les principaux acteurs.




                                                - 36 -

- 37 -

