Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 
4760-ML
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Fourth Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 19, 2010 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 
4760-ML
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 19, 2010, entered into between REPUBLIC OF MALI 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken 
under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, 
and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy 
framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
forty six million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 46,500,000
)
(variously, “Credit” and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Page  3
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the 
Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework and
 
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any situation that 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or 
any action taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: a situation has 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, 
will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS - TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in 
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s 
macroeconomic policy framework. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is its minister at the time responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
P. O. Box 234 
Quartier du Fleuve 
Bamako, Mali 
Facsimile: 
223-20-231654 
223-20-221914 
223-20-220793 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Bamako, Mali, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALI 
 
By /s/ 
Sanoussi Touré 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Ousmane Diagana 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
A. 
Improving Policy Environment for Infrastructure and Private Investment 
1. 
Establish the Cotton Interprofessional Association (
L’interprofession du Coton 
Mali
)
and Service Provider for Cotton Grading (
Office de Classement du Coton
)
for the private management of the cotton sub-sector. 
2. 
Sufficient progress on the drafting of the EITI validation report and towards 
completing the EITI validation process. 
B. 
Strengthening Public Financial Management 
1. 
Issue quality quarterly budget execution reports for the last quarter of 2009 and 
first quarter of 2010
 and publish them in the Ministry of Economy’s website. 
2. 
Submit to the National Assembly a draft law revising the Organic Law 96-071 to 
eliminate limits to the number of judges in the Audit Section of the Supreme 
Court that can be recruited. 
C. 
Improving Basic Social Services Delivery 
1. 
Adoption by the Ministry of Education of its Human Resource Management 
Strategy, among others, to retain trained teachers in remote areas. 
2. 
Adoption of the operational guidelines of Decree 02-314 on decentralization in 
the health sector, including the framework for the transfer of financial resources 
to the local communities and monitoring and oversight mechanisms at the 
regional level. 
3. 
Establishment of the National Directorate of Human Resources in the Ministry of 
Health and allocation in the 2010 budget law sufficient resources to finance the 
deployment of at least 20% of the annual needs of midwives and medical doctors 
in Mopti, Kayes and Timbuktu regions. 
Page  7
6
4. 
Signing of at least 50 conventions regarding the Recipient’s co-financing of at 
least 50% of the contributions of the poor households who adhere to health 
mutual insurance schemes and reflect corresponding resources in the 2010 
Budget Law. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the 
Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing is allocated in a single, from 
which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Financing.  The allocation of the 
amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Tranche 
46,500,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
46,500,000 
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the 
Single Tranche unless the Association is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out 
by the Recipient, and (b) with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic 
policy framework. 
D. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into a dedicated account by the Recipient and acceptable to the Association; 
and 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
Page  8
7
E. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, 
in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request; and  
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the said account 
and recording of Credit amounts into the budget management system, and their audit, as 
the Association shall reasonably request. 
F. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for 
an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each April 15 and October 15: 
 
Commencing October 15, 2020 to and including 
April 15, 2030 
1% 
Commencing October 15, 2030 to and including 
April 15, 2050 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
“2010 Budget Law” means  the Recipient’s law for the financial exercise 2010, 
adopted by the Recipient’ National Assembly and prepared under the terms 
established by the Law 96-060 on the Budget, adopted by the National Assembly 
on June 8, 1996. 
2. 
“Decree 02-314” means the Recipient’s Decree dated  June 4, 2002, establishing 
the details of the competences transferred from the state to the territorial 
collectivities, at commune and circle levels, regarding health issues. 
3. 
“Directorate of Human Resources in the Ministry of Health” means the 
directorate established within the Ministry of Health in charge of human 
resources at the national level pursuant to the Recipient’s Decree 09/009/P-RM 
dated March 4, 2009. 
4. 
“Dollar” means the currency of the United States of America. 
5. 
“EITI” means Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative established in 2003, 
to promote and support improved governance in resource-rich countries through 
the full publication and verification of company payments and government 
revenues from oil, gas, and mining. 
5. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the 
Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), 
or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient: 
Page  11
10 
 
Group Sub-group 
Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not 
containing tobacco 
substitutes) 
525  
Radioactive 
and 
associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and 
parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver 
or platinum group 
metals (except watches 
and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores 
and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to 
which the Recipient is a party; 
Page  12
11 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations; and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or 
other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to address such practices when they occur. 
6. 
“Financing Agreement” includes all appendices, schedules, and agreements 
supplemental to the Financing Agreement. 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
8. 
“Human Resource Management Strategy” means the Recipient’s strategy to 
manage human resources pursuant to the Recipient’s decision dated 
May 13, 2010. 
9. 
“Ministry of Education” means the Recipient’s ministry in charge of education or 
its successor thereof. 
10. 
“Ministry of Health” means the Recipient’s ministry in charge of health. 
11. 
“Organic Law 96-071” means the law of the Recipient on the Budget, adopted by 
the National Assembly on June 8, 1996. 
12. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated April 30, 2010 from the Recipient to the 
Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
13. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Page  13
12 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the 
“International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of 
the proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or 
the Bank (“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the 
Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and 
outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal 
from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if 
any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay the 
amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
Page  14
13 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
Page  15
14 
(c) The 
term 
“Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and its 
definition is modified to read as follows:  
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
(d) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
 
