Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No. 5422 
 
Project Name 
Fourth Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC-4) 
Region Africa 
Sector 
Public administration- Finance (40%); Compulsory health finance 
(20%); Public administration- Education (20%); Mining and other 
extractive (10%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector 
(10%). 
Project ID 
P117270 
Borrower 
Republic of Mali 
Implementing Agency 
The Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Date PID Prepared 
January 22, 2010 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 9, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 28, 2010 
1. 
Key Development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Mali has established a strong economic management record over the past decade and a half, in 
the context of a stable democratic political environment and founded on a market-oriented 
policy framework.  Mali has also been implementing its second Poverty Reduction Strategy, the 
Growth and Poverty Reduction Framework (GPRSF) covering the period 2007-11.  Mali has 
grown on average by 4.6 percent a year in the period 2004-
08.  However, the country’s 
economic prospects remain vulnerable to various exogenous shocks (climatic, pests, commodity 
prices, global financial crisis) and are hampered by deeply rooted obstacles to growth, including 
a
poor investment climate and deficient infrastructure.  
Given its significant needs for accelerating growth and reducing poverty, Mali will require 
sustained technical and financial support of the donor community, inclusive of the Bank, in a 
coordinated policy framework.  The proposed operation, an integral part of the Bank’s Country 
Assistance Strategy for Mali, would contribute to the financing of the Government’s 2010 
budget aimed at pursuing the objectives of the GPRSF.  The operation would provide support 
for the implementation of key economic, social and institutional reforms to strengthen economic 
growth and poverty reduction. 
2. Proposed 
Objectives(s) 
The proposed PRSC-4 would support the Government in the pursuit of policy objectives laid out in its 
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, of accelerating growth and improving the wellbeing of the Malian 
populations.  The reform program presented in the GPRSF has three strategic orientations: (i) 
development of infrastructure and the productive sector, to improve the productive environment, ensure 
better productivity of factors of production and economic growth; (ii) pursuance and consolidation of 
public sector structural reforms, to ensure good management of public affairs ; and (iii) strengthening of 
social sectors to improve the delivery of key social services, in particular education, health, drinking 
Page  2
water and sanitation, and housing.  The operation would focus its support in helping the government 
strengthen its regulatory and institutional environment for business development, strengthen public 
financial management and improve the delivery of basic social services.  
3. Preliminary 
description 
The PRSC-
4
supports reforms detailed in Mali’s poverty reduction strategy and is a complement to 
ongoing or planned World Bank investment operations.  Measures supported under the first component of 
the credit include establishing key institutions for the private management of the cotton sub-sector, 
notably the joint cotton producers / private ginning companies’ inter-professional association and the 
service provider for cotton grading.  These measures are expected to improve conditions to re-launch the 
cotton sector after privatization, thus increasing rural incomes and helping reduce poverty.  The 
component also supports the adoption of a program and cartography of public and private investments for 
the ON zone during the period of the Contract Plan (2008-12), key for sustainable development of 
irrigation infrastructure and equitable access to irrigated land.  Finally, by supporting the EITI validation 
process, the PRSC-4 would contribute to increased transparency in the mining sector.  
 The second component of measures supported by the PRSC-4 focus on strengthening budget reporting 
and external oversight.  Informing the public of budget allocations and budget implementation progress 
may lead to demand for better budget execution.  Timeliness, scope and quality of external audit reports, 
including at decentralized level, are expected to be improved as more financial judges are hired and this 
would gradually allow the audit entity to become a guardian of public interests.  A stronger audit entity 
would contribute for improved management of public funds, in line with authorized expenditures and 
policy objectives. 
Finally, the third component of measures supported by the PRSC-4 seek to accelerate progress towards 
the MDGs.  Measures target improved human resource management in the education and health sectors.  
Ultimately, a framework which helps attract, retain and motivate teachers, doctors and nurses including in 
the poorest and more remote areas are an essential element for improved education and health outcomes.  
The component also supports the strengthening of the regulatory and monitoring framework for the 
transfer of budgetary resources to the community level.  With more financial resources, local 
communities would be able to demand services and strengthen the service providers’ accountability to the 
population.  Elected officials are, under given circumstances, inclined to respond to local demands in the 
allocation of public resources.  Adequate public scrutiny would help discourage instances of misuse of 
public funds.  In this context, provision of basic social services is likely to be enhanced.  Finally, the 
components supports adherence to mutual insurance organizations.  By adhering to the organizations, the 
poor are not constrained by the need to pay out of pocket for the services they need and would increase 
the utilization of health services. 
4. Environment 
Aspects 
The specific reforms supported by the proposed development policy credit are not likely to have 
significant negative impacts on the country’s environment, and other natural resources.
 
The reforms 
supported aim primarily to strengthen regulatory, institutional and public finance management at the 
national, regional and local government level.  PRSC-4 covers the agriculture (cotton and ON), and 
mining sectors that may also have significant associated environmental risks.  These sectors benefit from 
Bank financed investment operations for which specific Environmental and Social Impact Assessments 
were prepared.  For cotton, an environmental management plan was undertaken under the Agricultural 
Competitiveness and Diversification Project and the Fostering Agricultural Productivity project in Mali 
will update the exercise.  For private sector development, telecoms and mining environmental 
assessments were undertaken under the Growth Support project.  Risks identified include diversion of 
Page  3
water resources, air and water pollution from agro-industrial activities, soil contamination, noise, tree 
destruction and electromagnetic radiation.  Mitigation measures were addressed in the design of the 
Growth Support Project.  For electricity an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) 
was prepared under the Energy Support Project.
 
The project is expected to have positive environmental 
benefits.  Recommendations were made regarding the gradual establishment of a structure to ensure 
environmental and social monitoring of the activities of the project.  
1.1. 
The Government has an Environment and Desertification Strategy and Action Plan.
 
In 1999 with 
the adoption of the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), the government strengthened its policy 
for the environment with 7 strategic axes, 3 of which were to: (i) strengthen national capacity; (ii) restore 
degraded areas; and (iii) organize a permanent system to control and monitor priority areas, parks and 
reserves.  The country also has a 2001 Biodiversity Strategy.  Environmental Assessments (EAs) are 
mandatory in Mali.  There are increasingly more experts capable of doing EAs but most are used for 
donor funded projects.  Environment still remains sectoral and is rather restricted to its Ministry under the 
Ministry of Environment and Sanitation.  The Ministry of Agriculture does however have capacity to deal 
with soil management issues that are related to agriculture.  In most areas of environmental management, 
enforcement capacity remains extremely weak.  As indicated above, the Bank as well as other donors 
provide support in the respective areas of coverage. 
 
5. Tentative 
Financing 
Source: 
 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
US$70.5 
mn 
 Total 
US$70.5 
mn 
6. Contact 
point 
Contact: Clara de Sousa 
Title: Sr. Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-2558 
Fax: 202-473-8136 
Email: cdesousa@worldbank.org 
 
