Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5546 
Operation Name 
ML-Poverty Reduction Support Credit 4 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Public administration- Finance (22%); Health (33%); Public 
administration- Education (11%); Mining and other (11%); 
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (23%) 
Project ID 
P117270 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MALI 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
March 12, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 4, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
May 27, 2010 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Mali has established a strong economic management record over the past decade and a half, in the context 
of a stable democratic political environment and founded on a market-oriented policy framework. Mali 
has also been implementing its second Poverty Reduction Strategy, the Growth and Poverty Reduction 
Framework (GPRSF) covering the period 2007-11.  Notwithstanding recent achievements in growth 
(which have averaged 4.6 percent a year from 2004-
08), Mali’s economic prospects remain vulnerable to 
various exogenous shocks (global crisis, climatic, pests, commodity prices,) and are hampered by deeply 
rooted obstacles to growth, notably a poor investment climate and deficient infrastructure.  
 
The GPRSF - and the accompanying Joint Staff Advisory Note (JSAN) - were considered by the Board of 
Executive Directors on September 28, 2007.  The GPRSF pursues strong broad-based growth and 
improvement of public service delivery.  In 2008, an Accelerated Growth Strategy (accompanied by an 
action plan) for the period 2008-2012 was prepared and presented to the 6
th 
Donor Round Table 
Conference held on June 12 and 13, 2008.  The most recent (second) Annual Progress Report of the 
GPRSF, approved by Mali’s Cabinet on September 3, 2009, shows that progress has been made in the 
implementation of the reform agenda but results have been mixed.  In a period marked first by the food 
and energy crises and later by the global economic slowdown, growth was below the GPRSF targets.  
Results were encouraging regarding efforts to contain HIV/AIDS and to increase access to drinking water 
in line with the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), but maternal health indicators remain a 
concern.
 1
 
The PRSC-4 is an integral part of the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Mali discussed by 
the Board of Executive Directors on February 5, 2008.  The PRSC-4 complements Bank operations that 
directly support Mali’s growth agenda (notably on agricultural productivity, energy, and business 
development) and education sector reform.  The CAS indicatively allocated US$50-60 million equivalent 
to the PRSC-4.  The amount of this credit has been increased to SDR [...] million (US$ 70.5 million 
equivalent), through the addition of US$15.5 million from the Crisis Response Window to help offset the 
impact of the global economic slowdown.   
 
1
Mali’s GNI per capita is estimated at US$580 (Atlas method, 2008), and the country ranks 178 out of 182 
countries in the UNDP’s 2009 Human Development Index
.
Page  2
2. Operation 
Objectives 
The proposed PRSC-4 would support the Government in the pursuit of policy objectives laid out in its 
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, of accelerating growth and improving the wellbeing of the Malian 
populations.  The reform program presented in the GPRSF has three strategic orientations: (i) develop 
infrastructure and the productive sector, to improve the productive environment, ensure better 
productivity of factors of production and economic growth; (ii) pursue and consolidate public sector 
structural reforms, to ensure good management of public affairs; and (iii) strengthen social sectors to 
improve the delivery of key social services, in particular education, health, drinking water and sanitation, 
and housing.  The operation would focus its support in helping the government strengthen its regulatory 
and institutional environment for business development, strengthen public financial management and 
improve the delivery of basic social services.  
The PRSC-
4
supports reforms detailed in Mali’s poverty reduction strategy and is a complement to 
ongoing or planned World Bank investment operations.  Measures supported under the first component of 
the credit include establishing key institutions for the private management of the cotton sub-sector, 
notably the joint cotton producers / private ginning companies’ inter-professional association and the 
service provider for cotton grading.  These measures are expected to improve conditions to re-launch the 
cotton sector after privatization, thus increasing rural incomes and helping reduce poverty.  The 
component also supports the adoption of a program and cartography of public and private investments for 
the ON zone during the period of the Contract Plan (2008-12), key for sustainable development of 
irrigation infrastructure and equitable access to irrigated land.  Finally, by supporting the EITI validation 
process, the PRSC-4 would contribute to increased transparency in the mining sector.  
 The second component of the credit focus on strengthening intra-year budget reporting and external 
oversight through the elimination of limits to the number of financial judges that can be hired. Informing 
the public of budget allocations and budget implementation progress may lead to demand for better 
budget execution.  Timeliness, scope and quality of external audit reports, including at decentralized 
level, are expected to be improved as more financial judges are hired.  A stronger audit entity would 
contribute for improved management of public funds, in line with authorized expenditures and policy 
objectives. 
Finally, the third component of the credit seeks to accelerate progress towards the Millenium 
Development Goals (MDGs).  Measures target improved human resource management in the education 
and health sectors.  Ultimately, a framework which helps attract, retain and motivate teachers, doctors and 
nurses including in the poorest and more remote areas are an essential element for improved education 
and health outcomes.  The component also supports the strengthening of the regulatory and monitoring 
framework for the transfer of health budget resources to the local level.  Adequate systems and public 
scrutiny would help discourage instances of misuse of public funds.  In this context, provision of basic 
social services is likely to be enhanced.  Finally, the component supports adherence to mutual insurance 
organizations.  By adhering to the organizations, the poor are not constrained by the need to pay out of 
pocket for the basic services they need and would increase the utilization of health services. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
The PRSC-4 supports the implementation of critical reforms and contributes to the 2010 budget financing 
needs.
 
Even though the Malian macroeconomic outlook for 2010 is fairly encouraging, risks remain.  
Terms of trade could deteriorate, foreign direct investment is anticipated to slow down notably after the 
extraordinary inflows in 2009 resulting for the privatization of the telecommunications company 
SOTELMA. The tensions between the Government’s commitment to pursue fiscal consolidation and 
protection of basic pro-poor expenditure needs in this challenging global environment would be eased by 
Page  3
continued efforts to reduce waste in public expenditure and strong positive donor support, including from 
the Bank through the Crisis Response Window.  
4. Financing 
Source: 
 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
US$55.0 mn 
CRISIS RESPONSE WINDOW 
US$15.5 mn 
 Total 
US$70.5 
mn 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
The Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) will be responsible for overall coordination of supervision 
and monitoring of the reform program supported by the proposed operation.  The MEF will liaise with 
focal points in the Ministries, departments and agencies involved in the PRSC program.  The participating 
ministries, departments and agencies will furnish relevant information and documentation on 
implementation and monitoring of their respective programs to MEF, which will oversee progress in 
achieving program objectives.  The main sources of data will be the household survey started on 
December 4, 2009, the population census that took place in April 2009, administrative statistics collected 
regularly 
by the sectoral ministries’ planning and statistical units, economic statistics produced by the 
National Statistics Institute (INSTAT) and budget data from the MEF. 
The monitoring of the PRSC-4 outcomes will be conducted within the GPRSF monitoring and evaluation 
framework and the joint donor budget missions.
 
The GPRSF includes a results matrix, which informed 
the results expected for the PRSC series.  The institutional structure for managing the overall 
implementation of the GPRSF is currently being strengthened.  The Government will provide quarterly 
reports to IDA on implementation progress measured against the agreed performance indicators detailed 
in Annex 4 of the program document.  The overall reform effort will be reviewed by the Government in 
close coordination with regular IDA missions to ensure continued implementation of the program within 
an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
The operation faces external, budget, political economy and implementation capacity risks. 
External risks
.
A
slower than expected recovery from the global crisis, a reversal of the terms of trade 
gains, a drop in remittances, and a decline in external aid remain major risks for the country. Other 
exogenous factors such as Mali’s vulnerability to climatic/natural shocks (drought, locust invasion) could 
compound the situation. Mitigating factors are Mali’s strong track record in macroeconomic management 
and the government’s renewed focus on growth-enhancing structural reforms while giving attention to 
key social programs.  The proposed operation would contribute to the mitigating measures by supporting 
policy actions that contribute to economic growth and diversification, further strengthen public finance 
management and address social service delivery issues. Additionally, the overall country dialogue would 
allow for some budget flexibility to address unexpected expenses within the context of a prudently 
managed budget that supports priority growth and poverty reduction programs. Reinforced donor 
coordination will also be critical to ensure external financial and technical assistance that protects reforms 
and helps progress towards the MDGs.  
 
Budget risks
.
Ongoing financial difficulties facing the cotton and electricity/water parastatal companies 
(CMDT and EDM), the Malian Housing Bank (BHM) and the social security fund CRM, could 
potentially require larger government transfers than included in the budget to cover larger deficits in those 
sectors than anticipated. Programming and management issues regarding the expansion of university 
students and the recruitment and career progression of teachers could also result in higher scholarships 
Page  4
and wage bill than anticipated As a result, required budget allocations to underpin the actions described in 
the operation could be jeopardized compromising the objectives of the program.  This risk is mitigated 
through close monitoring of CMDT and EDM financial and cash positions and restructuring efforts (with 
both being part of the IMF and Bank macroeconomic monitoring and policy dialogue with the 
Government). BHM is implementing measures to improve its performance with close supervision from 
the regional Central Bank (BHM is part of the IMF and Bank macroeconomic monitoring and policy 
dialogue with the Government).  Legal and regulatory reforms are also ongoing aimed at strengthening 
CRM.  Reforms under implementation to reinforce human resource management in education, better 
planning and dialogue with interested parties are expected to mitigate the pressures from teachers and 
students.   
 
Political economy risk
.
This risk stem from the complexities of Mali’s stakeholder dynamics in the policy 
making process. Consensus is sought for major policy decisions in Mali. When resistance to change is 
strong, the process can be lengthy, delaying implementation of critical reforms (as was the case in the 
cotton sector).  While this risk is difficult to mitigate, increased efforts are being made to assess the 
political economy of key reforms as part of the preparation of PRSCs.   
 
Implementation capacity risk.
 
This risk stems from the very limited capacity in the public sector at 
central, regional and local levels.  This situation could slow down project implementation. The proposed 
operation seeks to mitigate this by accompanying key reforms with technical assistance provided through 
Bank projects and by other donors 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
The proposed PRSC-4 (and subsequent operations in the series) is expected to have a positive direct effect 
on poverty reduction.  Measures supported aim to increase production and productivity in the agricultural 
sector, where the vast majority of the poor are employed.  Reforms that contribute to improved 
governance in public financial management are expected to align budget resource allocation with poverty 
reducing priorities while enhancing value for money.  Finally, measures to increase the availability of 
skilled teachers and nurses in rural areas are expected to improve the provision of basic social services in 
areas where the majority of the poor live. The Government’s co-financing of contributions of poor 
households in mutual insurance organizations removes a key constraint for the use of health services.  
 
The specific reforms supported by the proposed development policy credit are not likely to have 
significant negative effects on the country’s environment, forests and other natural resources
.
The 
reforms supported aim primarily to strengthen regulatory, institutional and public finance management at 
the national, regional and local government level.  PRSC-4 and 5 cover the agriculture (cotton and ON), 
infrastructure (electricity) and mining sectors that may also have significant associated environmental 
risks.  These sectors benefit from Bank financed investment operations for which specific Environmental 
and Social Impact Assessments were prepared. 
 
Page  5
8. Contact 
point 
Contact: Clara Ana Coutinho de Sousa 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-2558 
Fax:  
Email: cdesousa@worldbank.org 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
