Report No. PIC4676
Project Name              West Bank and Gaza-Community Development ...
Project
Region                    Middle East and North Africa
Sector                    Infrastructure
Project ID                XOPA47110
Borrower                  Palestinian Economic Council for Development
and Reconstruction (PECDAR)
Implementing Agency       PECDAR and Local Government Units (LGU)
Environmental Category    B
Date PID Prepared         October th, 1996
Date PID Updated          January 27, 1997
Appraisal Date            January 10, 1996
Project Board Date        March 6th, 1996
Country Manager           Odin Knudsen, Resident Representative, MNCWG
Task Team Leader          Kanthan Shankar, EMTEN
Sector Background
1.   Economic and political dislocation and under-investment in public
infrastructure over the years, especially in the small municipalities
and village councils in West Bank and Gaza (WBG) have contributed
significantly to deterioration and to an inadequate level of
infrastructure services. In many villages basic services such as water
supply and sanitation are either very poor or non-existent. Most
villages and small municipalities need urgent rehabilitation of access
roads, and other infrastructure services such as rehabilitation of
clinics and schools but have largely been neglected thus far in the
post-Oslo donor assistance effort.
2.    The persistence of severe unemployment (at times as high as 50%)
has, in addition to eroding the capacity of the municipalities and
villages to maintain their infrastructure, depressed living standards
and increased economic and social hardship in West Bank and Gaza.
Project Objectives
3.   The Community Development Project (CDP) seeks to rehabilitate or
restore basic economic and social infrastructure in small municipalities
and villages in West Bank and Gaza (WBG). The key performance indicator
for this objective will be the number of microprojects implemented in
these local government units.
4.   A second objective is to increase temporary job opportunities for
unskilled and semi-skilled laborers as well as the demand for local



suppliers and contractors, through rehabilitation works. At least
750,000 labor days (nearly 30,000 temporary jobs for a minimum of one
month) will be generated under the project.
Project Description
5.   The project will be administered by a Project Management Unit
within PECDAR and implemented by Local Government Units over a period
beginning in March 1997, and ending in December 1998. (see 1/) Three
components are proposed:
Civil Works: Implementation of about 500 small infrastructure
projects, costing between US$20,000 and $100,000, by local
government units (LGUs) using local contractors, suppliers and
laborers. These projects would have a minimum labor content of %.
Such works may include improvements in water supply, sanitation,
solid waste management, and rehabilitation of local clinics,
primary schools and feeder roads.
Project Management : Supplemental operating costs, vehicles,
communications and other equipment, training and impact studies
needed by PECDAR for project administration. In addition, a project
management unit will be created with a capacity to expand the
program rapidly in cases of a sudden deterioration in overall
employment (such as severe and prolonged border closures).
Institution Building : Agreements will be concluded with qualified
firms or individuals to provide training to: (a) LGUs, to ensure
good quality microproject proposals (e.g. technical designs,
realistic budgets), responsiveness to competitive bidding, and an
increased capacity to plan, manage and implement infrastructure
investments, operations and maintenance; (b) private contractors,
through seminars in both technical and procedural aspects of
contracting.
Project Financing
6.   The project is estimated to cost US$30 million. This would be
financed by : (a) an IDA credit (from the Trust Fund for Gaza and West
Bank) of US$10 million; (b) cofinancing of about US$17 million, and (c)
local funding of US$3 million (which would include community
contributions of a minimum of 10t of microprojects costs in cash or
kind).
Project Sustainability
7.   Community participation and contribution to the costs of
microprojects including commitment to operation and maintenance are
envisaged to increase ownership and thereby increase the likelihood
that they will be sustained in the long term. Incentives will be
provided for good performance through 'qualification' for selection of
additional microprojects for the community. Technical staff of LGUs,
especially engineers and accountants, will have access to training in
order to increase their skills in operation and preventive maintenance.
Program Objective and Poverty Category
- 2-



8.   The project development objectives are linked to the Bank Group
Strategy for WBG, which emphasizes restoring and further developing
basic and social infrastructure and alleviating poverty. The project is
consistent with the Palestinian Authority's development strategy (see
2/) which focuses on infrastructure improvements and private sector
development. The Palestinian Authority's medium-term development
strategy is to stay on a path of fiscal prudence and private sector-led
development in which the central government would act principally as a
facilitator of economic growth via donor-financed public reconstruction
investments. However, the medium-term strategy needs, in the near-term,
to be complemented by activities that increase short-term employment,
until such time as a major private sector response to the Palestinian
economy is evident.
9.   The project would contribute to the Palestinian effort to alleviate
poverty by providing temporary job opportunities to people through civil
works. The project would also build institutional capacity at the
village council levels, preserve public assets and help create the
enabling environment for private sector participation.
Environmental Aspects
10. The project will be considered category 'B' and will be subjected
to limited environmental analysis. Individual small projects will be
screened for potential environmental impact using a checklist approved
by the Bank. Any project which fails the screening will be excluded. The
projects are generally expected to have a positive environmental impact
and to help in reducing health hazards through improvements in water
supply, sanitation and solid waste management.
Benefits
11. Expected benefits include improvements in dilapidated small
infrastructure not covered under other World Bank, donor, or Palestinian
Authority programs/investments. This would preserve existing
infrastructure assets and obviate the need for much larger future
investments in reconstruction. Other benefits would be unskilled and
semi-skilled jobs in the West Bank and Gaza and an increased LGU and
small contractor capacity to plan, manage and implement works. The
families of approximately 28,000 laborers are expected to benefit
directly through job creation, with unemployed laborers and their
families are expected to be the predominant direct beneficiaries. Other
stakeholders would benefit indirectly through improved availability,
regularity, or quality of services as a result of the rehabilitation and
restoration.
Risks:
12. The project faces considerable risks, many of which cannot be
avoided. Political and institutional risks include social stability in
WBG and steady progress in the peace process. Provision of temporary
jobs and better services to the Palestinians in WBG may have some
modest, though not appreciable impact.
Interference by line ministries in daily operations would
compromise PECDAR's effectiveness and ability to approve projects in an
- 3 -



unbiased and rapid manner. Close involvement of the line ministries
(especially the Ministry of Local Government) in project implementation
should reduce this risk.
Managerial and technical risks include potential problems with
project quality in the field due to limited managerial, technical and
institutional capacity in LGUs, and lack of supervision. The Technical
assistance component of the project is designed to provide
implementation and supervision training to both PECDAR and the Local
Government Units implementing the microprojects.
1/   The project could potentially continue after 1998, depending on its
success and on the availability of additional financing.
2/   Source: Preliminary Statement on Palestinian Development Strategy -
Palestinian Authority Dec. 1995.
Contact Point:            Task Manager, Kanthan Shankar, EMTEN
Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No: (202) 458 5454
Fax No: (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending February 7, 1997.
- 4 -



