Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20684
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(24114; 24112; 04080)
ONA
TRUST FUND CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10 MILLION
TO THE
WEST BANK AND GAZA
FOR THE
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CDP)
PROJECT NO: P047110
JUNE 30, 2000
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 2000)
Currency Unit = New Israeli Shekel (NIS)
INIS = US$ 0.25
US$ 1 = 4.0 NIS
FISCAL YEAR
January I to   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BIA     Beneficiary Impact Assessment           NGO       Non Government Organization
CDP    Community Development Project            OPEC    Organization for Petroleum Exporting Countries
CDP II  Second Community Development Project    OT        Occupied Territories
CIDA   Canadian International Development       PA        Palestinian Authority
Assistance
DFID    British Aid Agency                      PECDAR Palestinian Economic Council for Development and
Reconstruction
DOP    Declaration Of Principles                PCD       Project Concept Document
EAP    Emergency Assistance Program             PDS       Project Document System
EEGP   Emergency Employment Generation          PLO       Palestine Liberation Organization
Program
EHRP   Education and Health Rehabilitation Project   PMO  Project Management and Monitoring Office
EIB     European Investment Bank                SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
ERP    Emergency Rehabilitation Project         TAP       Technical Assistance Program
GNP    Gross National Product                   TFGWB   Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
ICR     Implementation Completion Report        UNDP    United Nations Development Program
IDA     International Development Association   UNESCO  United Nations Educational, Scientific & Cultural
Organization
LGU.  Local Government Unit                     UNRWA  United Nations Relief and Works Agency
LRDP   Local Rural Development Program          UNSCO   United Nations Special Coordinator in the Occupied
Territories
MIDP   Municipal Infrastructure Development     USAID    United States Agency for International Development
Project
MOF    Mlnistry of Finance                      VAT       Value Added Tax
MOLG  Ministry of Local Govermnent              WBG       West Bank and Gaza
NCB    National Competative Bidding
Vice President:   Jean Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:   Joseph Saba
Sector Manager/Director:   Jean Claude Villiard
Team Leader:    Kingsley Robotham
Task Team Leader:    Kanthan Shankar



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
WEST BANK AND GAZA
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CDP)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    13
6. Sustainability                                                                        15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       17
9. Partner Comments                                                                     20
10. Additional Information                                                              23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    35
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                      36
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                    42
MAP        IBRD 27791
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P047110                                     Project Name: GZ-COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT
Team Leader: Kingsley 0. Robotham                       TL Unit: MNSID
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR          Report Date: June 30, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: GZ-COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT                      L/C/TF Number: 24114; 24112; 04080
Country/Department: WEST BANK AND GAZA                                 Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: SE - Labor Markets & Employment; SS - Social
Sector Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/11/96                               Effective: 04/01/97           05/15/97
Appraisal:  12/19/96                                MTR: 06/15/98              06/25/98
Approval:  04/02/97                               Closing: 06/15/99           12/31/99
Borrower/Implementing Agency: PECDAR/PECDAR
Other Partners: Ministry of Local Government and the Local Government Units
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Jean-Louis Sarbib                         Kemal Dervis
Country Manager:    Joseph P. Saba                            Odin Knudsen
Sector Manager:      Jean-Claude Villiard                     Nigel Roberts
Team Leader at ICR:   Kingsley Robotham                       Kanthan Shankar
ICR Primary Author:   Kanthan Shankar; Hisham
Labadi; Husam Abu Dagga
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
The "Outcome' rating has been judged to be "highly satisfactory" due to the following reasons:
*   the project accomplished its design objectives of infrastructure rehabilitation in municipalities and villages
and creating job opportunities. Except for the number of jobs created, all other key indicators were
surpassed including number of projects implemented with the available funds, number of communities
benefited through the project, number of training seminars conducted, etc.



*   the CDP was the first project in the Bank's portfolio in WBG to institutionalize community (counterpart)
contribution to project costs.
*   the CDP was the first project in the Bank's portfolio to target small municipalities and villages which had
for the most part been left out in the post-Oslo donor assistance.
*   the implementation procedures used under CDP, for example: the Operational Manual" has now been
replicated in other follow-up Bank and bilateral donor programs.
*   support for the CDP from beneficiaries have been unanimous as evidenced by the Beneficiary Impact
Assessments conducted on the project.
*   the success of the CDP contributed to follow-up projects being implemented/designed by both the Bank
(CDP II and ICDP) and other bilateral donors (EIB, OPEC, France and USAID).
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the Project are to rehabilitate and restore basic economic and social infrastructure in
towns and villages in the West Bank and Gaza, and increase temporary job opportunities for unskilled and
semi-skilled laborers therein.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objective was not revised
3.3 Original Components:
Component                                                               Cost
IMPLEMENTATION OF INFRASTRUCTURlE MICROPROJECTS                         $27.6m
SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATING COSTS AND TRAINING                               $ 1.9m
CAPACITY BUILD[NG OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT UNITS                             $ 0.5m
TOTAL         $30.Om
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1 Revised project components
Component                                                               Cost    Rating
IMPLEMENTATION OF INFRASTRUCTURE MICROPROJECTS                          $18.99m    S
SUPPLEMENTAL OPERATING COSTS ANTD TRAINING                              $ 0.87m    S
CAPACITY BUILDING OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT UNITS                             $ 0.34m    S
TOTAL         $20.2m
3.4.2 Distribution of infrastructure sub-projects (by sector and donor):
West bank                       Gaza             WB&G   _
Sector              IDA    CIDA   OPEC    Total   IDA    CIDA   OPEC    Total   Total    %
Roads and sidewalks  57      9       16     82      25      7      l       43 1j    50%
Water and sanitation  2      0       1       3      10      4      2       16     19    8%
Community  centers  and
ublic buildings      8      4       3       15     10      2       5      17      32    13%
ealth centers        3      2       2       7      4       0       1      5       12    5%
Education            29      4      16      49      1      0       2       3      52    21%
ocial centers        0      2       1       3      4       0       1      5       8     3%
Gand Totals         99      21     39      159    54      13      22      89    248   100%
Table I
-2-



3.4.3 Analysis of infrastructure sub-projects:
The Road sector with 50% (125 nos) of the overall sub-project distribution, has by far been the most
popular request from communities especially in the West Bank. Road projects in the West Bank included
upgrading and paving of village access roads, inter-village link roads, and village internal roads. Few of
the isolated villages in the West Bank were linked to neighboring communities through access roads for the
very first time. In Gaza, road projects mainly targeted unpaved streets with labor intensive "interlock
tiles" which not only enhanced the public health environmnent in these highly populated areas but also
supported local tile manufacturers and suppliers.
-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .,  . ...
1,      1 
.. .. -..                 .  .    -    .  . ..
Figure 1: Development ojAbu Taimi Sourour Stfreet in Gaiza (befi)re and after)
The Water and Sanitation sector accounted for 8% (19 nos) of the implemented subprojects. In the West
Bank, many villages are still lacking water supply and sanitation networks. J)espite the fŽict that water
sup)ply and scanitaitioni rank high on the priority list of the Palestinians (see Fpigre 4), dule to the extreme
dificulties in obtaining permitsfironi the Israeli Civil Administration, only thiree (3) projects were implemented in
the West Bank two (2 reservoirs and one rehabilitating sewage networks). In Gaza, the ongoing "Gaza
Water Supply and Sanitation Project", financed through the Bank and other donor programs are addressing
priorities in  the  water sector.   Nonetheless, CDP  has  implemented  16  projects  which  have
rehabilitated/upgraded sewage networks that have generated major public health benefits.
- 3 -



Figure 2: Sewage Project in Bure# Camp in Gaza (before and after)
Community Centers and Public Buildings accounted for 13% of implemented projects (15 subprojects in
the West Bank and 17 in Gaza). The West Bank centers targeted primary health care units, kindergartens,
and village councils, while the Gaza projects lbcused on training centers, community markets, libraries, and
other public amenities such as post-offices and public toilets.
The Health Sector accounted for 5% (12 nos) of the implemented projects and consisted of 7 clinics in the
West Bank and 5 clinics in Gaza. Furthermore, day-care rooms were also provided in the multi-purpose
community centers described above.
The Education sector accounted for 21% of implemented projects. Of the 52 education sector projects, 49
projects comprised of rehabilitation/extension of existing schools. The majority of these schools (49 out
52) were in West Bank villages, and the three projects in Gaza targeted works in local universities. New
schools in Gaza were largely addressed through other donor and Bank financed programs such as the
Education and Health Rehabilitation Project (EHRP) project. According to a women interviewed about the
elementary school in the village of Al Luban Al- Sharqiyeh: "The children used to go to the secondary
school crossing the highway outside the villa,ge. I lost my son in a car accident while he was crossing the
highway to go to school. It is too late for my son to study in the new school in village but not late for
others".
Figure 3: SYchool at Al Lubbhan Al Shiarqiyeh! in the West Bank
- 4 -



In addition, eight (8) subprojects were implemented in the Social sector consisting of rehabilitation of
women training center, Disabled center, Youth center and Public parks. (Detailed lists of subprojects
implemented through CDP are provided in Section 10, Additional information)
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Though Quality-at-Entry panels and assessments were established post-preparation phase of the project,
the project addressed satisfactorily the main criteria for preparation of a good quality project. The project
was one of the first pilots within the Bank to use the Project Document System (PDS) for project
preparation. The model required a detailed technical, social, environmental and institutional assessment
which was conducted by a team of local and international experts. Lessons learnt from the on-going Holst
Employment Generation Program (EEGP) and similar programs in Bolivia and Armenia contributed to the
CDP design. The project design had a distinct social dimension with emphasis in community participation
and ownership. The CDP was the first program financed through the Bank which institutionalized the
requirement for community contributions of a minimum of 10%. Furthermore, an "operational manual" and
a "Simplified Engineering Handbook" were prepared, as part of project design to institutionalize
procedures. The first set of subprojects were appraised and ready for implementation even before the
project was declared effective. In view of the above, and using the present criteria for Quality at Entry, the
CDP would have been rated as satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of objective:
This report concludes that the project has met its core objectives satisfactorily. The basis for this
conclusion can be explained by two factors: 1) the improvement of the quality and availability of basic
social and economic services in smaller municipalities and villages including the creation of temporary job
opportunities and 2) the responsiveness of the project to community needs.
Improvements in Basic Services: The project was one of the first projects in West Bank & Gaza to
address the needs of smaller municipalities and villages which had for the most part neglected by post-Oslo
donor assistance. About 248 communities in West Bank and Gaza were direct beneficiaries of the project.
In addition to the physical number of projects completed, this section attempts to illustrate the achieved
objectives through feedback from the final beneficiaries themselves. There were three Beneficiary Impact
Assessments (BIA) undertaken on the CDP - beginning of 1998, end of 1998 and April of 2000. Each time
about 30% of the projects under implementation (and or completed) were selected at random and
beneficiaries were interviewed through both focus group discussions and one-on-one interviews. The
assessment strongly reflected the sense of satisfaction of the communities with the CDP. Their willingness
to contribute to project costs and their sense of ownership were also clearly evident. Table 2 below reveals
the following direct benefits as felt by the beneficiaries:
- 5 -



Table 2:
Roads                      - Increased mobility to main cities; easier access to the village;
- Easier access to schools, clinics, and religious centers.
- Encourages newv development in the vicinity.
- Decreases time and distances and thereby costs.
- Easy access for supplies and water tankers to the villages.
- Improved Envi:onmnent in terrns of cleanliness and attractiveness.
- Decrease in car maintenance costs.
- Improves road safety (no holes or bumps).
- Safety for children on side walks.
Water reservoirs           - Providing clearn and safe water.
- Improving water pressure in the pipes.
Sewage                     - Decreasing expenses for transporting wastewater from septic tanks.
- Public health gains for the community
- Eliminating odors and insects.
- Solving Environjmental and Social Problems.
Commercial centers         - Easier access.
- Cleanliness of the merchandise.
- Ordered and regulated system.
- Income generation for the municipality.
Cultural Centers           - Providing space for public meetings, seminars and training.
Rehabilitation centers     - Provision of rehabilitation services for the disabled.
- Employment opportunities
Health Centers             - Conducting Primnary Health Care programs.
- Adhering to immunization schedules.
- Immediate med ical care for women and children.
- Access to health insurance.
- Easy access for senior citizens.
- Decrease of dislance and travel expenses to clinics.
Kindergartens              - Foster pre-school education.
-  Safe enviromne tt for children
- Job opportunities for women.
Schools and additions of   -  Safer environment for children and teachers
classrooms                 -  Savings from renting rooms is available for education.
- Parents committed to send their children to school when close by
- Increase in numbers of pupils and a higher levels of classes.
- Use of the building for further educational and cultural programs.
- Educational opportunities for children from neighboring villages
- Encourages the village councils to participate in further projects.
Responsiveness to Community Needs: The B]A also revealed that the CDP addressed community needs
and priorities. Infrastructure services remain key priorities for the Palestinian communities. Figure (4)
illustrates the priorities identified through the EIA undertaken most recently after the closing of the CDP.
These figures compared to the actual distribution by sector in figure (5) shows that the projects
implemented to a large extent responded to community needs. As indicated earlier, though water supply is
high on the list of priorities, the difficulties in obtaining permits for drilling wells and linking to main water
lines have been the main obstacle in implenmenting water supply projects. Electricity including rural
electrification was being addressed through other Bank and donor programs and was not included in the list
of projects under CDP.
-6 -



Local Community's Priorities
25
20
15
2l50--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i                         I
10
5
0
Figure ( 4)
project distribution by Sector
60%
50% _   i l           __
40%.   !r'                              -$                        >           ;
30%                                           g                                            Sees
20°/%  ;      |           s;:L{Srel
100;%     1   bi
Roads and   Water and   Community    Health          Education  Social centers
sidewalks    sanitation   centers and    centers
public
buildings
Figure ( 5)
-7 -



Figuire (6) Clinic at Beit Furik village
Creation of Job Opportunities: The project has been successful in meeting the objective to expand job
opportunities for unskilled and skilled labor. Over 280,000 person days of employment were created over
the life of the project. However this number was less than envisaged in the design of the monitoring
indicators. The design calculation for labor assumed an average labor content of 35% and US$13 average
labor rate resulting in an anticipated creation of 624,000 person days of employment. The assumptions and
the design reflected the needs of 1997 which were frequented with periods of closures and the urgent need
for temporary employment. The reasons for this lower than expected jobs actually created can be justified
due to following reasons:
*   the projects was demand driven and as indicated in Figure (7), the labor content is directly related to
the type of project selected by the community.
*   lower cofinancing through donors than initially anticipated (revised project cost US$20.2 million actual
versus estimated US$30 million). This reduced project costs would bring down the indicator on
employment numbers from 624,000 to 429,000 person days.
*   higher than expected percentage of road projects which are generally less labor intensive especially in
the West Bank where most of the access roads are paved using machines.
-8 -



ADDroximate Emnlovmnent Rate (%) by Tvpe of Activity
Min                                          _Mayr
16°/  9%  10%  1?4°/n 16%  1R°  9()/n 2/22%  24%/a ?6%  2X/n 3p0%
Roads                                    10
Maintenance_                      
Rural roads
Roads inclusive Infrastructure. __.
Roads inclusive sidewalks.
Roads with interlocked tiles.                                                   =oI
Construction
Maintenance
Extensions
New construction
ewage Networks
Maintenance
New Networks
Figure: (7)
*   While closures were a regular feature during the preparation of CDP, the situation changed
considerably during implementation and the urgency for emergency employment subsided. Hence
employment generation ceased to be a priority. Furthermore labor rates increased by nearly 50% due
to a gradual opening of the Israeli market for Palestinian laborers and the resulting labor shortages in
West Bank and Gaza.
O   Force account and direct labor contracting are generally highly labor intensive but the improved labor
market in Israel during project implementation resulted in reducing these methods of procurement.
Both force account and direct contracting were estimated to be about 54% of overall procurement
during the design phase but in actuality reduced to less than 20% during implementation.
It was also interesting to note that none of the communities interviewed through the BIA referred to the
temporary job creation as a major benefit or shortfall. Hence while there were shortfalls in the number of
temporary jobs created through the project measured against initially estimated figures, there was no
negative impact on the success of the project as evaluated by both the government and beneficiaries.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Project outputs and achievements:
Table (3)
Objective                        Target (Indicator)               Achievement
1. Infrastructure
Projects Implemented              *  Projects (no): 250 ( based on   0  248 projects (revised project
project value $30m)              value $20.2m)
*  Beneficiaries (no): NA        0  Beneficiaries (no): direct
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __________________________ _   3 74 ,7 6 5
-9-



i) Water and Sanitation
Reailati and .impon    of *  Sewage (k1m): NA                *  27 km in total, 4 km in West
Rehabilitatlon and Improvement of    1,
networks                                                         Bank and 23 km in Gaza
* Reservoirs (no): NA         * 2 reservoirs
* Beneliciaries (no of        *  14 communities
communities): NA
ii) Roads                      * Total (km): NA              *  129 km paved
* Projects (no): NA           *  122 projects in total, 79 in
West Bank and 43 in Gaza.
* Inter-village Link roads (kin):  *  8 km in West Bank
NA
* Access roads (km): NA       *  30 km in West Bank
*  Internal roads (krm): NA   *  91 km in total, 83 km in West
Bank and 8 km in Gaza.
*  Sidewalks (k1m): NA        *  18 km in total, 3 in West
Bank and 15 in Gaza
iii) Education                 * Classrooms (no): NA         * 203 classrooms in West
Bank (60% for girls)
* Kindergarten (no): NA       *  7 KGs in West Bank
* University improvements,    *  3 projects in Gaza
lecture rooms and yards (no
of projects): NA
iv) Health                     * Clinics (no): NA            *  12 clinics
* Primary care unites (no): NA   * 4 units
v) Public Buildings, Community  * Training Centers: NA        *  I center
Centers and Social Care Centers * Markets: NA                * 4 markets
* Libraries: NA               * 3 libraries
* Public Health: NA           * 2 public health centers
*  Social Centers: NA         *  8 social centers
'2. Capacity Building:         * Seminars (no): 6            *  8 seminars
Training seminars to increase
capacity among LGUs and small
contractors.
Subcontracts with local design
firrns to assist LGUs in project
preparation.
3. Employment                  *  624,000 labor days (revised    * 282,000 labor days
Increase in employment            propcrtional 429,000)          (170,000 on site- labor and
opportunities                                                    112,000 in the material
* 200,000 labor days through     production and supply)
IDA                        *  170,000 labor days
4. Local Procurement            * 95% local labor             *  100%
I * 60% local material          * >60%
Other outputs achieved by the project are described below:
Social and Economic Benefits: The school rehabilitation works financed by the CDP facilitated school
access especially for girls who might have otherwise dropped out of school if there was a need to travel
- 10-



large distances or to a neighboring village. Furthermore, increased accessibility through access roads also
facilitated the travel of women teachers to the outlying villages, thus strengthening the educational system
for girls in those villages. In addition, approximately 60% of the classrooms constructed through the
micro-projects in the West Bank were for girls schools. The economic benefits through the expansion of
transport activity and increased accessibility facilitated the development of many new small business
activities in the villages and thus creating permanent job opportunities.
Impact on the local contractors: The total number of contractors registered in the Palestinian Contractors
Union increased from 251 in early 1996 to 445 by the end of 1999. Most of the new contractors are small
and middle size contractors. This increase cannot all be credited to CDP, but it can be stated that the CDP
together with other similar programs such as the EEGP have contributed in supporting small and middle
size contractors - for example, approximately 91 contractors have worked on CDP - projects.
Impact on local consulting firms: Local consulting firms have been actively involved both during the
preparation and supervision of the CDP. The first BIA was conducted by an international consultant using
a local team. However, subsequent BIAs were all done successfully by the local team which had gained the
experience from the international consultant. Similarly local firms have assisted in designing projects and
provided training modules to the implementing agencies on projects which are relatively complex such as
sewage network design, reservoirs, etc. The CDP has also piloted outsourcing of technical supervision to
local firms thereby reducing direct Bank staff involvement.
Impact on the local industry: Giving priority to local products has resulted in support for newly
established local industries. In Gaza for example interlock tiles factory has flourished through Bank and
donor funded microprojects. In both West Bank and Gaza local products like paints, PVC pipes, tiles,
aluminum profiles, concrete products and other items have been widely used on CDP projects. It is
estimated that over 60% of the materials used were produced locally by Palestinians.
Impact on political stability: The CDP has been one of the first interventions to target rural and
peri-urban areas of West Bank and Gaza and the resulting support for these projects has contributed
positively to the people's confidence in their government. This support could translate to greater support to
the government policies such as the on-going peace process.
'49. '.^
Z .~ ~   ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . .' ...-'  ..
Figure 8: Communit meetings discussing launching of (DP projects
- 11 -



4.3 Net Present Value/lconomic rate of return.
NA
4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The CDP has contributed to building capacity both within the main implementing agencies - PECDAR and
the Ministry of Local Government and the participating municipalities and village councils. PECDAR and
MOLG have gained considerable experience in both implementing and monitoring community based
programs. Community participation and ownership have now become part of project development
activities. The implementing agencies have also started using social assessments and participatory
techniques to check if the beneficiaries concerns are being adequately addressed in project selection and
implementation. Under the CDP, PECDAR strengthened its preparation team by hiring local social
scientists to assist in project selection.
Figu re 9: CDP socialt work-er tmvseMing the nee&v of the community
The demand based project selection process urider the CDP has assisted the LGUs in prioritizing their
requests and building capacity to prepare project proposals.  Local project committees have been
established in most villages to assist in the project formnulation and prioritization. Specifically the BIA
found that LGUs are now better equipped to identify their community needs, maintain partnerships with the
sector ministries to jointly select projects. For example: close coordination of the LGUs with the Ministry
of Education has resulted in the greatest satisfaction among beneficiaries on education projects. While the
MOE provides the teachers, the LGUs have takcen the responsibility for the maintenance of the school.
Furthermore, as communities were required to contribute to project costs, they have started taking more
interest in the project implementation and have demanded a greater say in the decision making process.
Workshops on operation and maintenance, sc.cial assessment and participatory techniques, financial
management and technical seminars have contributed in strengthening the institutional capacity. Special
training programs were also targeted at small contractors on procurement and financial management.
- 12 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
1. Border closures with Israel have resulted in delays on a few projects under CDP in Gaza. Out of 62
sub-projects in Gaza financed by IDA, 16 subprojects were delayed as a result of the closure. Long
delays have been in the roads sector as most materials are imported from Israel.
2. In some instances due to similar community development programs being implemented at the same time
by various donors, small contractors have been overwhelmed resulting in delays in implementation.
However, delays have been short and has had little impact on overall implementation.
3. Timely acquisition of land (one case) and building permits (several cases) were also factor5 for some
delays in subproject implementation.
4. In some instances, especially in village access roads in the West Bank, permits from the Israeli Civil
Administration were not forthcoming which resulted in either delays or cancellation of projects.
5. In some cases, LGUs submitted subproject proposals to different agencies and chose to fund their
activities where requirements such as where community contribution was the least or not required.
6. On the positive side contributions from the communities has increased their ownership of the project
and hence are demanding to be part of the decision making process and that should contribute to
sustainability.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
1. Some of the small contractors suffered as a result of delays in VAT reimbursement by the Ministry of
Finance. Although this issue did not effect the overall project implementation capacity of the
contractors, it is negatively affecting the contractor ability to bid on other works. Both the contractors
and PECDAR have actively pursued MOF to provide a solution to the problem. The MOF has recently
introduced Zero (0) VAT vouchers for designated VAT exempt projects which would be used by
contractors in lieu of VAT payments. This proposal is still awaiting implementation.
2. On the positive side the Government through the CDP has increased its exposure in villages and small
municipalities. The BIA reveals that the people at large are very happy with the program and credit the
PECDAR and the PA in general for the good work.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
1.    Lack of proper coordination between the PECDAR and the Ministry of Local Government during
the initial stages of the project caused some minor delays. Establishment of a steering committee in Gaza
greatly reduced inter-ministerial rivalries. In the West Bank, an implementation agreement for a follow-up
project CDP II greatly increased coordination on project implementation.
2.     The capacity building component was not adequately planned which resulted in bunching a major
portion of the activities during the final six months of the project. Nevertheless the capacity building
component targeting training in social appraisals and participatory techniques and the recently held
operation and maintenance assessments and training have been very helpful to the implementing agency and
the participating municipalities in planning and implementing follow-up activities (ex: CDP II, Holst Fund,
USAID projects).
- 13 -



3.    On the positive side, implementing the first CDP has provided PECDAR with valuable experience
in community based and participatory projects The experience is reflected in the continuous innovations
and improvements in the design, implementation and monitoring of follow-up projects such as the CDP II.
In addition the success in project implementation has resulted in donor interest in funding community based
programs through PECDAR. The French Government, EIB and OPEC Fund are funding similar programs
through PECDAR.
4.    Using rapid assessments, technical audits and Beneficiary Impact Assessments by PECDAR to
gauge stakeholder satisfaction with projects and including the lessons learnt into the follow-up activities has
resulted constant improvements in the project implementation. For example: the appraisal form in the
operations manual was revised to include socilI appraisal questionnaire and was based on lessons learnt
during the first BIA conducted in 1998.
5.    As shown in the figure (10) below, disbursements were fairly rapid during the project cycle barring
two periods of low disbursements. The first cccurred between August to October 1997 following the
closures of territories and the second occurred in the second half of 1999 due to the delay in completion of
the capacity building component.
Commulative Disbursements
1 0 E
8~~~~~
o~~~~~~~~ MM
6
2-
0
| ----Actual disbursements     Planned
Figure (10)
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The project was initially designed for US$30 million with the expectations of attracting about US$17
million in cofinancing. As it turned out the project received around US$7.7 million in cofinancing. As the
project design was based on funding sub-projects less than US$150,000 provisions were provided during
project design to increase or decrease the number of projects implemented depending on the availability of
funding. Hence the reduced cofinancing did not have an appreciable impact on the program. The Holst
Fund Employment Generation program (EGP), which is a multi-donor program administered by the Bank,
managed by the CDP-project team and imp emented by PECDAR as well, started following CDP
procedures. About $11 .2m  were channeled through EGP during the same period resulting in the
- 14 -



implementation of about 192 subprojects and creating 170,000 labor days. Furthermore the CDP was
instrumental in spawning follow-up projects which also attracted donor funds. For example: the Danish
Government to channel their funds for the CDP through the Holst Fund Employment Generation Program
for the Gaza middle area.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The Community Development Project has been judged to be sustainable. This evaluation is based on the
following factors:
0 The CDP was initially designed with objective of using the unemployed labor due to border closures
with Israel for building capital stock in their villages and small municipalities. However as described
earlier the objective has evolved over the life of the project and has now become a Program on
community development. Follow-up projects such as CDP II and other bilaterally funded projects are
already under implementation using similar procedures and operational manuals developed during the
design of the CDP. Over US$100 million is being channeled to community development programs as
illustrated in Table 4. While all this interest cannot be directly attributed to the CDP, both the BIA and
the feedback from other donors indicate that the success of the CDP has contributed significantly to
expansion of similar programs.
Table 4
. Donor                      Amount                       Comment
OPEC                          $ 5 Million                  Cofinanced with IDA
CIDA                          $ 2.7 Million                Cofinanced with IDA
World Bank IDA                $ 8 Million                  CDP II
|OPEC II                      $ 8 Million                  Cofinanced with IDA
EIB                          $$10 Million                  Parallel Finance with IDA
USAID                         $20 Million                 Implemented through NGOs
Italy                         $ 2 Million                  Financed through UNDP
UNDP                          $12 Million                  LRDP- program
France (proposed)             $ 7 Million                  Community Development through
PECDAR
Denmark                       $ 3 Million                  Holst Fund implemented through
PECDAR
$11 Million                 Implemented by Denmark through
Municipalities in Gaza middle
camps
Donor community- Holst Fund    $11 Million                  Parallel Financing with CDP
* There has been a strong focus on monitoring and evaluation in both the design and implementation of
CDP. Now these features have been institutionalized in follow-up programs. Lessons learnt from
different assessments conducted were fed back into the CDP and design other projects. One of the
issues identified very early in the implementation was the need to have an operations and maintenance
strategy for post-CDP phase of the program. Accordingly a comprehensive maintenance study and
training program has been completed that has developed an action plan and training program.
Furthermore, a rapid assessment conducted on maintenance of CDP project during the post-completion
- 15 -



phase revealed that for the most part commrunities were maintaining their projects. Regular beneficiary
feedback through BLAs have also contributed significantly to improvements in project design and
giving the beneficiaries a sense of ownership. The studies have shown a clear correlation between
ownership and commitment to maintain the assets and thereby ensuring sustainability.
*   Community contributions to project cost; increase ownership. The BIA studies have shown that
contributions in cash by communities have resulted in active participation during project selection and
implementation. Furthermore, the studies have clearly shown that the CDP for the most part has been
able to create strong ownership. While design target was for a minimum 10% community contribution
in cash or kind, however the cash contributions alone reached above 12% during implementation. In
addition, there have been many projects in which communities also contributed in-kind. The level of
success in getting communities to contribut- is an indicator of ownership and likelihood that the project
would be sustained in the long-term.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
While the continuation of community development projects is assured in the short term (under 3 years) by
the level of interest and availability of donor funding as described above, the likelihood of central
govemment taking over funding of community development programs in the medium and long term is
debatable. Nevertheless, community contributions in cash and kind has helped in building ownership which
could help sustain operations in the long term. Furthermore, the CDP and other similar programs are
building capacity within government agencies to implement similar programs. Should the government in the
future establish instruments such a community development fund, then capacity would readily exist to
implement such programs successfully.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The performance under this category is considered Highly Satisfactory (HS). The Bank recognized and
responded to an urgent need from the client under a difficult environment (border closures) and had the
project prepared in less than five months. Furthermore the total costs for project preparation from
identification through Board was less than US$130,000. Additionally the project was one of the first pilots
to successfully use the Bank's Project Document System (PDS) in preparation. The project was approved
in April 1997, made effective in May, 1997 and the first projects were under implementation in June, 1997.
7.2 Supervision:
Performance here is judged Satisfactory (S). The Bank supervision team used the experience in the Holst
EGP projects to react effectively to the clients needs. Having the whole team based at the field office and
good working relationship with the implementing agencies also greatly influenced the quality of
supervision.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
This is judged Satisfactory (S).  The project was first of its kind in the Bank's portfolio that
institutionalized community contribution and participation in project implementation. Maintaining an
excellent relationship with the client contributed to smooth running of the progran.
- 16 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Since the borrower for this project also happens to be the implementing agency, please see the ratings for
preparation under Implementing agency.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government Ministries, especially the MOLG was not involved actively during the initial phase of the
project preparation and implementation. This lack of coordination between the implementing agency and
MOLG caused some confusion within the communities on who was in charge. This issue was resolved
quickly by clear delineation of roles and responsibilities between MOLG and PECDAR. Accordingly,
MOLG was responsible for selection of subprojects submitted by communities and PECDAR was
responsible for their implementation. There were also two instances where the Ministry of Health gave a
commitment to operate clinics constructed through CDP but provided them with staff and equipment nearly
six months after completion. Hence the performance of the government ministries is rated as satisfactory
(S).
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Having gained experience in managing the Holst Employment Generation Program, PECDAR contributed
effectively in CDP preparation. The social, technical and institutional assessments prepared as part of
preparatory activities received valuable inputs from PECDAR. Furthermore, the PECDAR carried out
project processing responsibilities from their side in a timely and orderly fashion. Negotiations were
completed in five hours and project was made effective and under implementation under two months. Even
the beneficiaries rated very highly the role of PECDAR in project implementation as revealed by the BIA.
Furthermore, all the financial audits through the life of the project gave PECDAR a clean bill of health.
Accordingly, this category is rated as highly satisfactory (HS).
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
While the implementing agency performance is highly satisfactory, the performance of all the other
stakeholders (sector ministries) have been rated as satisfactory. Accordingly, the overall performance is
rated as satisfactory (S).
8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons learnt on the CDP are given below:
* It is critical that beneficiaries are adequately consulted during project preparation in order that their
needs and priorities are properly reflected in the project design. Furthermore, projects should be
selected based not only on the demand from the communities, but also on the basis of the type of
beneficiaries making the demand. Conducting social appraisals as part of project preparation is highly
desirable. For example: few of the village council buildings identified as priorities are not fully
operational. The BIA revealed that while these public buildings were priorities of the village council
elders (who in most cases are nominated from the biggest families in the village), but are not supported
by rest of the community. Hence the project committees formed by the LGUs to prioritize projects
should also include representatives to protect the interests of other sections of the community such as
women, youth, poor families. One method suggested to monitor participation is for the project
committees to document the number of public meetings held on the project and who attended the
meetings.
- 17-



*   In addition to ownership by the final beneficiaries, other stakeholders such as sector ministries in
charge of operating the public facility need to be involved in the preparation activities. For example:
there have been two cases where clinics built remained empty six months after completion due to lack
of health care workers. Hence coordination with sector ministries is essential and selection of the
project should be conditional on the commitment from the sector ministry to operate the facility. In the
absence of this commitment, it would be advisable to defer the project or support another project in the
affected community.
*   Promotional activities are extremely cnicial for successful implementation of community based
projects. The first BIA conducted in 1998 revealed that some communities were completely unaware
of the CDP. Promotional campaigns need to be well organized in order to properly disseminate
information relating to guidelines for targeting, objectives, role and responsibilities, operation and
maintenance and proposed impacts on the beneficiaries. After a slow start PECDAR and MOLG have
been active in promoting the CDP through workshops, site visits and promotional brochure.
Promotional activities through the media such as films are also very effective for both local and donor
audience. The Bank assisted PECDAR in developing a promotional film on the CDP which has been
used in the local and donor meetings.
*   Monitoring and Evaluations on a regular basis are essential for continuous improvements in project
implementation and follow-up activities. CDP has been fortunate to have regular assessments of
project progress through the BIAs, Procurement Audits, Institutional assessments and Operation and
Maintenance Studies. Furthermore, the experience gained by the implementing agency in partnership
with the Bank's supervision team (resident in West Bank and Gaza) has been able to feed lessons learnt
on a continuous basis into the project.
*   Transparency and accountability are cornerstones for building trust among the beneficiaries which
contributes to their active participation in the success of the program. Community representatives
interviewed as part of the BIA, made repeated positive mention of PECDAR's accuracy and
transparency with financial transactions and dealing with contractors. Their regulations such as
mandatory presentation of invoices, receipts and approvals from line ministries for the undertaken
subprojects are highly acceptable within the communities.
*   Successful social interventions need a strong independent implementing agency with a very able
manager. PECDAR possessed both these attributes - a well equipped team was put in place with the
necessary skills and leadership was provided by the PMO Director who also was an active promoter of
the program.
*   The main reasons for establishing a ceiling of US$150,000 for each subproject was to spread the
benefits across many communities and also increase opportunities for local labor and material.
However there have been instances where some communities disbursed all the funds to expand the main
project component (example classrooms) aad neglected other important on-site infrastructure such as
washrooms, paving of front yard etc. Thus resulting in an incomplete project. While communities need
to be encouraged to fund integrated projects, the project design should also have some flexibility to
increase the budget on exceptional basis witilout jeopardizing the overall design objective.
*   Communities are willing to participate in program formulation and contribute directly (up to 25% of
project costs) for projects which directly benefit them. The willingness to pay was in most cases linked
to the project's impact on the target population. Basic infrastructure projects such as roads, sewage,
schools, and water projects attracted the highest direct community contribution.
*   Capacity building is time consuming and output indicators are hard to measure, but the component is
absolutely critical for long term sustainability. As in the case of other projects in West Bank and
- 18 -



Gaza, there is a tendency to push this component to the background because impacts are not
immediately visible as compared to the works component. Under the CDP, delays in the capacity
building component resulted in extension of the closing date by six months from the original
implementation period of two years. Hence, it is important that the implementing agency focus on both
the capacity building and works contracts simultaneously to make maximum use of lessons learnt both
within the project and other global experiences to improve project implementation. In this regard
workshops and training sessions held on participatory approaches using the Tunisia and Egypt
experience, development of the Operation Manual using the Armenian Social Funds experience, and
Operation and Maintenance training has been highly regarded by the beneficiaries.
*  Empowerment of the implementing agency and other stakeholders are comerstones fQr project
ownership and sustainability. The Bank team while assisting the implementing agencies closely during
the initial phase of the project was successful in transferring all responsibilities for project quality and
innovation to the implementing agency. For example, after the detailed review of the first batch of
subprojects, the Bank moved to ex-post review and thereby putting the responsibility for subproject
selection on the implementing agency. Not only did the implementing agency meet the challenge but
also was able to carry out many innovations on appraisal and monitoring. They were responsible for
updating the appraisal forms to include social and environmental criteria for project selection. They
were responsible for designing promotional brochures and their monitoring reports were in detail
illustrated with "before and after" photographs.
- 19 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Partners Comments:
PALESTINIAN ECONOMIC COUNCIL
For Development & Reconstruction
a !                               PECDAR
Mr. Kanthan Shankar
Task Team Leader
World Bank Office
West Bank & Gaza
Date: 1st June 2000
Subject:           (GZ- Community Development Project)
(L/C/TF Number:   24114:24112:04080)
Dear Kanthan:
I am pleased to have the chance to congratulate you and the World Bank resident team who
worked on the CDP implementation for the commendable work carried out during the last two
years. Thanks also for the preparation of the ICR and the sincere participation with the
PECDAR's PMO staff in compiling the findings at the end of the project.
Despite the fact that West Bank and Gaza irhabitants have high level of poverty in the region
and with low-income, they did, through the implementation of the project components,
indicate strong commitment to social and economic development.
The community showed, by in-kind and in-cash contribution (contribution reached in some
cases twice the capital investment cost of the project), that economic development can reach
the marginal communities once the basic principles of project ownership and justified selection
of priorities are the working model.
Through the CDP finance ($1OM from IDA, $2.72M from CIDA and $5M from OPEC fund),
it was possible to create short and long-term. job opportunities in the construction and related
supply industries. It is estimated on average a 25% of the sub-project finance was disbursed as
salary and wages.
- 20 -



Although the targeting strategy on the number of jobs per day created was not met, however,
the economic and social benefits from the sub-projects through the sustainability process
ensure job stability on the long tertn. This is evident when looking at the sub-projects targeting
the construction of a market place. The labors content during the construction phase much
lower than the jobs created during running the daily market activities.
The successful design of the CDP procedures came as a natural evolution from the prior
experience gained through Holst Employment Generation Programs that allowed the
implementation agency to carefully design the CDP operation. Through the early EGP
procedures, the community was encouraged to engage with local authority to remove
obstacles and minimize logistics for the implementation.
CDP procedures provided opportunities for more interaction between beneficiaries and the
implementing agency and for closer coordination among the beneficiaries themselves during
the different stages of sub-project implementation.
The establishment of a steering committee comprising of key officials from the sector
ministries and community representatives paved the way for the successful implementation of
the sub-projects and allowed the implementing agency to achieve the targets within the set
time and budget. By doing so, it is fair to commend the implementation team for rapid
disbursement of committed fund with the highest possible quality and in the shortest possible
time.
There has been appreciable visible impacts of the subproject: For example: when a link road,
ranked by the community as a top priority has been constructed, there has been visible free
movement of traders and citizens safely and with a lower transportation fees and reduced
travel time. Construction of girls schools and providing them access roads is having a direct
impact on their education as families gain confidence in movement of people and easy
commuting within villages. Though the long-term impacts will need to be evaluated, visiting
sites and conducting BIAs and attending workshops, we consider the CDP has been highly
successful.
The flexibility and wide sector targeting strategy of the CDP allowed the beneficiaries to gain
economic and social development. The sectors covered the implementation of 248
sub-projects in the education, health care, water and wastewater, roads and other construction
projects. The implementation of the sub-projects was in a short time horizon, thus ensuring the
commitment of the donor countries and the Palestinian National Authority towards alleviating
poverty and economic situation in the current period.
The beneficiary impact assessment conducted by independent consulting firms has revealed
that a positive relationship has blossomed between the village councils, municipalities and
communities and which has resulted in a professional attitude towards communities needs and
sustainability of the sub-projects. This relationship was further reinforced through the CDP
technical assistance study that developed a operations and maintenance strategy for the
- 21 -



beneficiaries to maintain their assets.
The approval of funding of a second CDP rproject from the World Bank ($8M) and the further
contribution of $10M by EIB, $8M from OPEC fund and $6M from AFD is a good indicator
of success of the program  and all parties involved in the appraisal, implementation and
monitoring of activities.
I am confident that by the end of the year 2000, the activities of second phase of the CDP will
reach its target. The Palestinian communities and the local authority will then be able to focus
on the medium and long term projects that sustain the development with gradually reducing
support from donor communities.
Best regards
Dr. K. A. Nigim
PMO Director
Cc:   Mr. Joe Saba, Country Director, The World Bank
Dr. M. Shttayyeh, Managing Director, PECDAR
File
(b) Cofinanciers:
The CDP was envisioned as a partnership ameng donor agencies active in community based programs.
CDP was able to attract two confinanciers for the project financing nearly 50% of the project costs. The
OPEC Fund chose CDP as its first intervention in West Bank and Gaza which by itself is a credit to the
program. Canadian CIDA which has been working in similar programs in Refugee Camps chose to channel
their funds through the CDP based on work implemented through the Holst EGP program. Both of these
agencies have been extremely satisfied with the progress and impact of the CDP.
The letter from OPEC's Operations Manager stated that: "We would like to inform you that the OPEC
Fund's opinion on the CDP is positive and we are very satisfied with the progress and perfornance of the
project".
The head of the CIDA projects in West Bank and Gaza wrote: "The Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA) has been pleased to participate as a funder of the Community Development Program. The
Bank's professionalism as a manager and PECDAR's strengths as an implementing agency offered us the
opportunity to program our funding in an efficient and effective way. The transparency and timeliness of
reporting were also appreciated making our experience very user-friendly".
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
The CDP has been extremely successful in working in partnership on individual projects with both
bilateral donors and the NGO sector. For example in Gaza, projects have been jointly financed by the CDP
and Save the Children. Projects have also beern jointly financed with the DFID (British Aid Agency),
UNWRA, UNESCO and the Institute for the Arab World.
- 22 -



10. Additional Information
List of IDA- funded subprojects
No.  Proj. ID                   Contract Title                                    Towsn/viliafe      Area            Sector
G aza                                             _____.__________
I    CDP/BAOI/OIRIJB            Sewage line & tiling of market area               Jabalia camp       Gaza-North      Water & waste water
2     CDP/BA01/02RIBL            Paving ofKassam Street                           Bait Lahia         Gaza-North      Roads
3     CDP/BA0i/03RIBL           Developing the Market                             Bait Lahia         Gaza-North      Public building
4     CDP/BA01/05RIJB            Construction of the market of center Jabalia     Jabalia            Gaza-North      Public building
5     CDP/BA01/06RIBH           Construction of Box Culvert                       Bait Hanoun        Gaza-North      Roads
6     CDP/BAOl/26R3M            Construction of sewage channel                    Maghazi            Gaza-Middle    Water & waste water
7     CDP/BAOl/27R3WS           Construction of health center                     Wadi El Salga      Gaza-Middle    Health
8    CDP/BAOI/28R3              Cst                                               Nussairat          Gaza-Middle   Public building
9     CDP/BA0l/28R3NSA          Construction of public toilets                    Nussairat          Gaza-Middle   Public building
10    CDP/BAOI/29R3NSA          Stage 1 sewage line                               Nussairat          Gaza-Middle    Water & waste water
II   CDP/BA0I/3 lR3BP           Develpment f           Alshuhada St.              Burei              Gaza-Middle    Roads
12   CDP/BAOII/5R4RF            Construction of sidewalks for Keir street         Rafah              Gaza-South      Road-Sidewalks
13    CDP/BAOI/52R4RF           Construction of sewer line block P                Rafah              Gaza-South      Water & waste water
14    CDP/BAOl/53R3KY           Paving Main roads stage 1 Main Area               Khan Yunis         Gaza-South      Roads
15    CDP/BAOl/77R2GS           Construction of sidewalks Abu Hasira St.          Gaza               Gaza            Roads
16    CDP/BA0I/78RIGZ           Develop. of public park Al Nasser Area            Gaza               Gaza            Social
17    CDPIBA02/55R4KY                                                              Khan Younis       Gaza-South      Pulcbidn
18    CDP/BA02/56R4KY           Construction of lecture rooms for CSKY-University  Khan Younis       Gaza-South      Education
19    CDP/BA0218IR2GZ           Construction of public library- Al toffah area    Gaza               Gaza            Public building
20    CDP/BA02/BL.JB.G          Reusable safety towers on Gaza Beach              Gaza               Gaza            Public building
.NS.DB.KY
21    CDP/BA03/34R3MG           Construction of Msadar Health Clinic              Al-Maghazi-        Gaza-Middle    Health
Msadar
22    CDP/BA03/57R4BS           Development Al Zanaa Street                       Bani Suhaiula      Gaza-South      Roads
23    CDP/BA03/59R4KH            Construction of commercial market                Khan Yunis         Gaza-South      Public building
24    CDP/BA03/62R4QR           Construction of boundary wall &  access road for Qarara              Gaza-South      Health
____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___ health     clinic                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
25    CDP/BA03/63R4BA           Development of Al Madaresa Road                   Big Abassan        Gaza-South      Roads
26    CDP/BA03/82R2GZ           Developn tofAlBatliji road                        Gaza               Gaza            Roads
27    CDP/BA04/65R4QR           Culture center for Qarara Mun.                    Qarara             Gaza-South      Public building
28    CDP/BA04/67R4QR           Development of Salamia road                       Qarara             Gaza-South      Roads
29    CDP/BA04/83R2GZ           Developing Al Wadia St.                           Gaza               Gaza            Roads
30    CDP/BA04/84R2GZ           Public toilets for Sheik Radwan Market            Gaza               Gaza            Public building
31    CDP/BA04/85R2GZ           Sewer line for Kandil St .                        Gaza               Gaza            Water& waste water
32    CDP/BA04/86R2GZ           Interlock for inter. roads Islamic university     Gaza               Gaza           'Education
33    CDP/BA05/35R3BR           Construction of sewage line for block 7&12        Bureij             Gaza-Middle    Water& waste water
34    CDP/BA05166R4KY           Construction 2nd floor KY Municipality            Khan Yunis         Gaza-South      Public building
35    CDP/BA05/69R4KZ           Development secondary roads                       Khuzaah            Gaza-South      Roads
36    CDP/BAO5/70R4RF           Construction of new commercial market             Rafah              Gaza-South      Public building
37    CDP/BA05/87R2GZ           Develop. Abu Laban Strees and  S ewer line        Gaza               Gaza            Water& waste water
38    CDP/BA05/88R2GZ            Construction of sidewalks Al Jalaa Street        Gaza               Gaza            Road-Sidewalks
39    CDP/BA06/07RIJB            Sewage line for Wadi El Arab Street              Jabalia            Gaza-North      Water & waste water
40    CDP/BA06/08RIBL                         t            road                   Madrasa            Gaza-North      Roads
41    CDPDeveloment of Al assam Street                                            Nussairat          Gaza-Middle    Roads
42    CDPIBA06/71R4KY            Construction ofhealth center Fokhr area          Khan Younis        Gaza-South      Health
43    CDP/BA06/90R2GZ            Interlock for Assad staff School Gaza            Gaza               Gaza            Road-Sidewalks
44    CDP/BA07//38R3NS           Construction of sewer line Nussairat             Nussairate         Gaza-Middle    Water& waste water
45    CDP/BA07/37R3NS           Upgrading of internal road                        Bureij             Gaza-Middle    Roads
46    CDP/BA07/72R4RF            Construction of sewer lines                      Rafah              Gaza-South      Water & waste water
47    CDP/BA07/73R4QR           Development of town entrance                      Qarara             Gaza-South      Roads
48    CDPIBA07/9lR2GZ           C                                                 Gaza                 aza           Road-Sidewalk
49    CDP/BA07/92R2GZ           Construction of sidewalks Khalil Alwazer          Gaza               Gaza            Road-Sidewalks
50    CDP/BA08/09.RIlB          Construction of post office                       -abaia              GazaNorth      Public building
- 23 -



51    CDP/FAO4/R3DB              Pavement & rehab. of sidesalks-Kuraz St            fDair Al- Balah    Gaza-Middle    Roads
52    CDPIFA05/R2GZ              Tree planting Phase 2                              Gaza               Gaza            Road-Beautification
53    CDP/FA06/R3DB              Development of Yafa Street                         Dair Al- Balah     Gaza-Middle    Roads
54    CDP/FA07/R3DB              Development of Al Hatout Street                      air Al- Balah    Gaza-Middle    Roads
_____________________    West Bank                                            _ .
55    PMO/CDP/M3/15              Construction of public build:ig                    Sensiel            Middle          Community center
56    PMO/CDP/M3/16              Construction of 6 classroomt                       Beit Ure Al-Tehta  Middle          Education
57    PMO/CDP/M3,i7              Addition of classrooms                             Surda              Middle          Education
58    PMO/CDP/M3/18              Finishing works for public bailding                Al-Tereh           Middle          Community center
59    PMO/CDP/M3/]9              Paving internal roads                              Bani   Zaid   Al- Middle           Roads
_________ _________ _      _______ _________ _________ _________ _________ _   Sharpia            ,____          _ __Sh_ui
60    PMO/CDP/M3/20              Paving internal roads                              Eitn Qinia         Middle          Roads
61    PMO/CDP/M3/21              Construction of waste wates holding ponds          Selwad             Middle      W_ ater
62    PMO/CDP/M3/22              Upgrading of main road and storm water line        Qatanah            Middle          Roads
63   fPMO/CDP/M3/23              Paving internal roads                              Anata              Middle          Roads
64    PMO/CDP/M3/26              Finishing works ofkindergarten                     Al-Ouja            Middle          Education
65    PMO/CDPIM4/029             Rehab. of internal roads                           Jiljelia           Middle          Roads
66    PMO/CDP/M4/029             Rehab. of internal roads                           Deir Dubwan        Midle           Roads
67    PMO/CDP/N3/32              Addition of 2 classrooms and Verandah              Zawata             North           Education
68    PMO/CDPIN3/34              Paving access road 2km                             Beit Dajan         North           Roads
69    PMO/CDP/N3/35              Finishing works of health cli sic                  Belt Fureek        North           Health
70   3PMO/CDP/N3/37              Rehab. of internal roads 1.5km                     Sabastia           North           Roads
71    PMO/CDP/N3/39              Addition of 6 classrooms                           Anin               North           Education
72    PMO/CDP/N3/40              Addition of 6 classrooms                           Arrabeh            North           Education
73    PMO/CDP/N3/41              Paving internal roads                              Jalboon            North           Roads
74  fPMO/CDP/N3/42               Paving internal roads                              Um Dar             North           Roads
75    PMO/CDP/N3/43              Paving internal roads                              Thaher Al-Abed   North             Roads
76    PMO!CDP/N3/44              Paving internal roads                              Al-Zawia           North            Roads
77    PMO/CDP/N3/45              Paving internal roads                              Qera               North           Roads
78    PMOICDP/N3/46              Construction of water reservoir                    Faron              North           Water
79    PMO/CDP/N3/47              Paving internal roads                              Kafa               North            Roads
80    PMO/CDP/N3/48              Paving access road                                 Izbet Abu khmaish North            Roads
81    PMO/CDP/N3/49              Paving internal roads                              Deir Al-Ghosoun   North            Roads
82    PMO/CDP/N3/50              Pai      e       a            bridge               Akaba              North           Roads
83    PMO/CDP/N4/053             Construction of 2 classrooms for girls school      Raba               North           Education
84    PMO/CDP/N4/054             Paving internal roads                              Ya'bad             North           Roads
85    PMO/CDP/N4/055              a                                                 Yamoon             North           Roads
86    PMO/CDP/N4/057             Paving internal roads                              Jamaain            North          -Roads
87    PMO/CDP/N4/058             Rehab. of Al Watan     ptal                        Nablus             North           Health
88    PMO/CDP/N4/059             Rehab. of culvert and access road                  Beit Amin          North           Roads
89    PMO/CDP/S3/17              Paving internal roads                              Targomia           South           Roads
90    PMO/CDP/S3/18              Addition of 6 classrooms                           Noba               South           Education
91    PMOICDP/53/19              Rehab. of access road                              AlMoureg           So_uth          Roads
92    PMO/CDP/S3/20              Construction of "That Al-Netaqen school            Yatta              South           Education
93    PMO/CDP/S3/21(A&B)    Completion ofthe schools                                Beit     Al-Roush South            Education
_ _____________________    ________________________________________________   Fuka/Tehta
94    PMO/CDP/S3/22              Construction of 2ublic buildirg                    Deir Samit         South           Community center
95    PMO/CDP/S3/23              Rehab. of access road 2km                          Tarama-Wadi  Al- South             Roads
___________________         _ _______________________________________     _  Sh  in_ch
96    PMO/CDP/S3/24              Paving internal roads                              Hindaza            South           Roads
97    PMO/CDP/S3/26              Paving internal roads                              Al-Obaidiah        South           Roads
98    PMO/CDP/S3/27              Paving of Karkafeh Street                           ehlehem            ouh            Roads
99    PMO/CDP/S4/028             Rehab. of internal roads                           AI-Hijra-          South           Roads
___________________        __________________________________________        A lSunober   H
100   PMO/CDP/S4/029             Rehab. of main road                                Al-Sammo'          South           Roads
- 24 -



101   PMO/CDP-Ml2                Construction of 4 classrooms                         Mukhmas           Middle           Education
102   PMO/CDP-M03                Construction of village council                      Abu Qash          Middle           Community center
103   PMO/CDP-M04                 Construction of 4 classrooms                       All anieh           Middle          Education
104   PMO/CDP-M06                Rehab. of internal roads                            Al Judaira         Middle           Roads
105  PtMO/CDP-M07                 Rehab. of internal roads                           Beir Nabala        Middle           Roads
106   PMO/CDP-MO8                Construction of 6 classrooms                        Kharbatha Musbah Middle             Education
107   PMO/CDP-M09                Construction of a box culvert and acess road        Qarawet Bani Zeid Middle            Roads
108   PMO/CDP-Mll                Construction of 6 classrooms                        Atara               M iddle         Education
109   PMO/CDP-Mt3                Construction of a kindergarten                      Marj Al Ghazsl    Middle            Education
110   PMO/CDP-M14                Rehab. of access road 2km                           Diyook Al Tehta   Middle            Roads
Ill   PMO/CDP-NOI                Addition of 4 classrooms                               Muthalath   Al- North            Edpcation
_ Shuhada
112   PMO/CDP-N02                Addition of 3 classrooms and sanitary unit to girls Kufur Qud           North           Education
____ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ school                                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
113   PMO/CDP-N04                Construction of village council and clinic           Farkha             North           Community center
114   PMO/CDP-N05                Rehab. of main road                                  Deir Estia         North           Roads
115   PMOsCDP-N07                Paving 1500 m internal roads                         Khirbet Jubara    North            Roads
116   PMO/CDP-NO8                Paving internal road                                 Azmout            North            Roads
117   PMO/CDP-N09                Paving of internal roads                             Majdal Bani Fadel North            Roads
118   PMO/CDP-N1O                C                                 clinic            Jurish              North           Community center
119   PMO/CDP-Nll                 Addition of 2 classrooms and verandah              Ammouria            North           Education
120   PMO/CDP-N12                Finishing works of new elementary school            Alluban Asharqia  North             Education
121   PMO/CDP-N13                Completion of the school                            Beit U'mreen        North           Education
122   PMO/CDP-Nl4                 Paving internal road                               Wadi Far'a          North           Roads
123   PMO/CDP-NI5                Construction of link road                           Yaseed             North            Roads
124   PMO/CDP-NI6                Construction of external wall of school             Tyaseer             North           Education
125   PMO/CDP-N17                Construction of the village council                 Al-Zababdeh         North           Community center
126   PMO/CDP-Ntg                Paving internal roads                               BeitOa_             North           Roads
127   PMO/CDP-N19                Construction of 3 classrooms                        A'ba Asharqia       North           Education
128   PMO/CDP-N20                Paving internal roads                               Masha               North           Roads
129   PMO/CDP-N2I                Construction of the village council                 Iskaka              North           Community center
130   PMO/CDP-N22                Paving internal roads                               Bidia               North           Roads
131   PMO/CDP-N23                Paving the main road                                Beit Leed          North            Roads
132   PMO/CDP-N25                Paving internal roads                               Annazleh Asharqia North             Roads
133   PMO/CDP-N26                Paving internal roads                               Saida               North           Roads
134   PMO/CDP-N27                Construction of 4 classrooms                        tzbat_ Ashga        North           Education
13 5  jPMO/CDP-N2                Construction of 3 classrooms                        Al FunIdoq          North           Education
136   PMO/CDP-N30                Rehab. of access road                               Hashimieh-  Kufur North             Roads
______ ______ ____   _ ______ ______ ______ ____ _ __ Oad
137   PMO/CDP-N3 1               Construction of elementary school                    Deir Abu D'eeif  North             Education
13 8   PMO/CDP-SOI               Construction of seven classrooms                    Raboud              South           Education
139   PMO/CDP-SO2                Pi                                                  Al Dowwara          South           Roads
140   PMO/CDP-S03                Upading of access road                              Khallet El Loz      South           Roads
141   PMO/CDP-S04                 Paving of 1500 m internal roads                    Al Neman            South           Roads
142   PMO/CDP-S05                Paving internal roads                               Al Eddeseh          South           Roads
143   PMO/CDP-S06                Paving the main road                                Shoyokh         Al- South           Roads
___ ___ __ ___ __ ___ __ ___ __ ___ __ ___ __ ___ __ A rroub_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
144   PMO/CDP-S07                                   dBeit Marsam                                         South           Roads
145   PMO/CDP-S08                Paving & maintenance of internal roads              Sikkeh              South           Roads
146   PMO/CDP-S09                 Pavin  village access road                         I'zaiz              South           Roads
147   PMO/CDP-SI1                Construction of 2 classrooms                        Al-Reehiva          South           Education
148   PMO/CDP-S I 1              Construction of 3 classrooms                        Khilet Al Mayyeh  South             Education
149   PMO/CDP-s12                 P                                                  Shawawreh           South           Roads
150   PMO/CDP-S13                                    s                               Batteer             South           Roads
151   PMO/CDP-S14                 Finishing works of clinic                          Wadi Fookeen        South           Health
152   PMO/CDP-S15                 Paving internal roads                              Doha                South           Roads
153   PMO/CDP-S16                Construction of a kindergarten                      Taqqo'- Khirbet al South            Education
_____________________________                                                  IJeir              ___________________________________________Dei
- 25 -



List of CIDA-funded subprojects
No.  Project ID                Contract Title                                Town/villagc          Area          Sector
Gaza projects
I    CIDA12.R3.GZ             Developing the main road                       El Moghraka area      Gaza          Roads
2     CIDAI 1.R2.GZ            New Sewer line                                Shurafa Area          Gaza          Waste water
3     CIDA05.R2.GZ             New commercial Market                         Beach re£ Camp        Gaza          Public Building
4     CIDA06.R2.GZ             Developing Interior roads                     Al Sha' af- Gaza      Gaza          Roads
5     CIDA13.R2.GZ             Side walks for secondary  ads in Gaza         Gaza                  Gaza          Roads
6     CIDA14.R3.WS             Developing the access roads to health center  Wadi El Salka         Gaza-middle   Roads
7     CIDA.FA01.MLG.R2.GZ  Supply of materials for the MLG                   Gaza - MLG            Gaza          Public Building
8     CIDAOl.Rl.JB              strs officeabaliaefcam                                             Gaza-North   Public Building
9     CIDA02.R2.JB             Sewage line & sidewalks-A -Jouron st.         Jabalia ref. camp     Gaza-North    Waste water
10    CIDA04.R4.KY             Developing El Sikka street                    Khan Younis           Gaza-South    Roads
11    CIDA07.R4.BA             Developing of Abu Taima St.                   Big Abassan           Gaza-South    Roads
12    CIDA08.R4.KY            Developing Al Dawage Street                    AL-Iskan/ Khanyounis Gaza-South    Roads
13  _CDA03.R4.RF               S                        Camp                 Rafah refcam          Gaza-South    Waste water
14    CIDAl0.R4.RF             Sewage line for El-Shaboura Camp Phase 2      Rafah ref.camp        Gaza-South    Waste water
West Bank projects
15    CIDA/007                 Construction of Qalandia schlool              Qaladia               Middle        Education
16    CIDA/0617                Coctionof tcarceLter                   S_ Rhfatrei Camp             Middle        Health
17  |CIDA/022                  Construction of Community BRAl Fou a                                Middle        Community center
18    CIDA/1                  Pn o intemal roa          _                    Al Auj richo          Middle        Roads
19    CIDA/003                Rehabilitation of main road                    Jzoef C               Middle        Roads
20    CIDA/004                 Upgading works of Am Sinia-Jifna road         Ain Sinia- Jifna      Middle        Roads
21    CIDAI010                 Upgrading of link Road                        Deir Ghasaneh- Kufr Middle          Roads
Ain
22    CIDA/023                 Rehabilitation of access roac:                Duke al fouga         Middle        Roads
23    CIDA/009                 Addition of classrooms                        Farata                North         Education
24    CIDA/016                 Construction of school                        Rafat-Salfeet         North         Education
25    CIDA/020                 Construction of Community Building            Tulkarem ref. Camp   North          Community center
26    CIDA/008                 Rehabilitation of internal roads              Jenin ref. Camp       North         Roads
27    CIDA/0 14                Construction of public cente l  F=ara ref Camp                      North         Comm y cen
28    CIDA/OI 5                Cottion ofpublic ha_                          Al-Ain ref. Camp      North 
29    CIDA/019                 Paving ofintealroads                          Deir Ghazaleh         North         Roads
30    CIDA/002                 Construction of handicapped center            Nur Shams ref. Camp  North          Social
31    CIDA/006                 Construction of kindergarte                   Al-Khas               South         Education
32    CIDA/005                 Construction of Health Clinic                 Deir Al-Asal          South         Health
33    CIDA/0 12                Paving of access road                         Hadab Al Fawar        South         Roads
34    CIDA/0 13                Paving of interal roads                       Abu Urqan             South         Roads
35    CIDA/024                 Construction of youth center                  Al  Fawar  Refugee South            Social
_ _____                       ____ ___ ____ ____ ___ ____ __    _   _  Cam      _ 
- 26 -



List of OPEC-funded Micro projects
No.   Projeet ID                Contract Title                                         Townlvillage                Area,                 Sector
Gaza Projects
I      OPEC   I  R2. GZ         Developi.g Al Kuerne  School                           Gaza                        Gaza                 Education
2      OPEC.t5.R2.GZ            Devel.ping Interior Roads                              Gaza- Al Tofah              Gaza                 Roads
3      OPEC.06.R2.GZ            Construction of new sewer line                         Remal-Tel El Hawa           Gaza                 W aste water
4      OPEC .07. R2 . GZ        Construction of new sower tine                         Gaza-Draj Area              Gaza                 W aste water
5      OPEC04.R I.BL            Sport  Aetivities  building   for  the  Northern Beit Lahia                        Gaza-north           Public
_________________ _ _   Governorate
6      OPEC.21.RI.BH            Construction of new commercial market                  Beit Hanoun                 Gaza north           Public
7      6PEC23.R I.BH            Developiny Hamed Street                                Beit Hanoun                 Gaza north           Roads
S____ OPEC.t6._Rt BL            Developinz the southern entrance                       Belt Lahia_                   aza north          Roads
9      OPEC.12.R4.KY            Construction of a new health olinic                    Rafah-Shoukat               Gaza south           Health
t0     OPECOt.R4.RF             Construction  of  wall  in  the  Rafah  Fishing Rafah                              Gaza_south           Public
Harbor
It     OPEC.09.R4.tKY           Extension for M inistry of Interior Building           Khan Younis                 Gaza south           Public
12     OPEC.22.R2.GZ            Side walks for populated area                          Khuza'ah                    Gaza south           Road beutification
13    OPEC. I  R .qR            Developing Aba Hadaf Street                            Qare                        Gaza south           Roads
14     OPEC.20.R4.KZ            Developing of Khalid Ibn Al waleed  St.                Khuza'ah                    Gaza south           Roads
15     OPEC.0S.R4.KY            Construction of Women Training center                  Khan Younis                 Gaza_south           social
16     OPEC02.R4 BA             Developit Al Rahma St.-I&Absan                        Bi  Abassan                 G _ aza-middle       Roads
17     OP EC03 . R4. B S        Developing Abu Taim  and Soubour street                Bani Suhaila                Gaza-middle          Roads
It     OPECO5.R4.SA             Interlock for secondary roads                          Small Abassan               Gaza-middle          Roads
19     OPEC13.R4.BS             Developing El Amerea and El Rawda street               Bani Suhaila                Gaza-middle          Roads
20     OPEC14.R4.BA             Developing Al Farahin St.                              Big Abasan                  Gaza-middle          Roads
21     OPEC17.R4.,SA            Developing Al Baraka street                            Small Abassan               Gaza-middle          Roads
W=est Ba    Prok eres jects
22     OPEC-006                 Construction of public b-ltding                        Duma                        North                Community center
23     OPEC-O0 7                Construction of elem. school                           Deir Abu Masha'ol           Middle               Education
24     _ OPEC-008       _ -p- -gworks    irls scho! _                           .         balan   .__ _            _ . _ North          Education_
23     OPEC-009                 Construction of village council                        Ainabous                    North                Community center
26     OPEC -SI                 Construction of 6 classrooms                            Seinsafout                 North                Education
27     PEC-01 I                Rehab. of access road                                  Awarta                      North                Roads
2B     OPEC- 012                Extension of the  M inistry of Interior building    Nablus                         North                Community center
29     OPEC-013                 Extension to the Polytechnic Institute building        Hebron                      South                Education
30     OPEC-024                 Construction of  accessroa               h             Barta a                     Norlh   WTateu
31     OPEC- 015                Rehab. of side walks                                   Tulkarem                    North                Roads
32     OPEC-016                 2Pgraving     internal roads                           Akkaml
33     OPEC  017                Construction  of 6 classrooms                          Basa Al-SharQ ia            North                Education
34     OIPEC-01                 Construction of Red Crescent clinic                    Qalqilia                    North                Health
45     OPEC- 029                 Constrution ofnterna  laroad  s        _              Um Al Ree ha.t               _o__h               Roads
6      OPEC-.00                 Rehab. of Azzoua   Accdss road                         Azzoun                      North                Roads
37     OPEC-021 P ing of  access roads                                                 Marfamrn                  NSoth                 Roads
38     OPEC-022                 Construction  of 6 rlassrooms foB elem.  sehool   Ill.,                            North                Education
39     OPEC-023                 Paving of internal roads                               Tanmoun                       _ ____ North       Roads
40     OPEC-024                 ConstruR tiof    of Arcess  roads  Dahid    t El-Haj Tubds                         North                Roads
a                            Hassan
41     OPEC-025 xRehab.  of S . cho   fory Sc grls                                    Ha-am                       North                Education
42     OPEC-026                 PRaing of internal toads                               Akkab. SoNrth                                    Reads
43     OPEC-li27                 Construction  of  4  classrooms  in  secondary Kufur Qadoum                       NoTth                Education
54     OPEC-02S                 Constuo tion  of 3 classrooms in flem. school          Cufur Laqif                North                Edueation
.5     OPE -02 3                Construcion of  6 Clasbrooms Make                      B _a_et                    NSoth                 eucation
46     O PEC- 030               Upgav     intera  roads                                Al _A_aba_Tubas_NorthRoads
47    OPEC-03 1                 Upgrading of access road                               Marj Amecrah                South                Roads
48    OPEC 032                  P-ngofitea  .asBit Ek,                                                             M iddl.              Roads
49     OPEC-033                 Paving of internal roads                               Rantees                     M iddle              Roads
so    OPEC-034                  Rehab. of secondary schools-Biddo_                 _  Biddo                        M iddlc              Education
51     OPEC-035                 Rehab. of S6 . schools for beys h girls                AlRam                       M iddle              Education
52     OPEC-036                 Rehab. of Beit Hanina Sed . School                     Beit Hanida                 M iddle              Educatio.
53     OPEC 037                 Construction  of  4  classrooms  in  secondary T ill                              |North                Education
54    OPEC-038                   Fi.ishing works of third floor fou Jre in Hospital Je mi.                         North                Health
55     OPEC 039                 Epa         ofVegetable M arket                        Beit Jala                   SouthpublicBuilding
56     OPEC-040                 Paving of internal roads                 J;haras                         .          .South              Roads
57    OPEC-04 1                 Paving ofintern.al roads                               Ithna            ..South                         Roads
5S     OPEC-042                 Addition of 6  class,oo.s for ele. school              Dula             ..South                         Education
59    OPEC 043                  Upgradi.g of Bari Zeid boys school                     Bani Zaid                   M       M      i d l Ed ucation
60    OPEC-047                   Fiih_  wrso Tulka,e, hosia!T  kr:to                                     H        ¢IN OI'h              ..
- 27 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndicatorMatix   :                :Proe         idIn lastPR         i      A     Itual/LatestEstimate
Improved access of local population to  Improved access of local population to  The following was achieved:
services such as roads, water supply and    services such aEs roads, water supply and    Roads: 122 projects 129km of roads and
sanitation, clinics, schools, etc.     sanitation, clinics, schools, etc.     18km of sidewalks
Water and Sewage; 19 projects; sewer lines
4km in West Bank and 23km in Gaza and 2
Reservoirs
Education: 52 projects Classrooms (no): 203
Classrooms and 7 kindergarten.
Health: Clinics (no): 12
Primary care unites (no): 4
community centers and public buildings: 14
village councils, training centers, markets
libraries, public health and others
Social Centers: 8
Beneficiary satisfaction with services  Beneficiary satisfaction with services  All the BlAs conducted on the CDP clearly
provided                               provided                               state that communities were satisfied with
the CDP objectives, projects implemented
and expressed willingness to contribute and
participate in future projects.
More than 250 communities have        more than 100 zommunities have benefited   153 communiies have implemented micro
implemented micro projects over the first 18  through the implementation of micro projects projects financed through IDA from a total of
month of credit effectiveness          through the IDA credit.                248
Direct employment generation of        More than 200 000 labor days have been    About 170,000 labor days have been
24, 000 full-time equivalent jobs (26-days    generated through the IDA credit  generated through IDA credit from a total of
Duration) over the life of the project.                                       282,000 labor days.
Greater economic activity at the local level                                  100% local labor
due to demand on local labor and material                                     >60% local material
contractors and suppliers
95% local labor
60% local materal
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected In last PSR                  Actual*tLatet Esi;mate
Six seminars are provided for the small                                       Eight seminars are provided for small
contractors                                                                   contractors and municipal engineers.
End of project
- 28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal     Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate        Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component               US$ million     US$ million
1. Civil Works                                         27.59            18.99            69
2. Goods, Vehicles, and equipment                       0.18             0.13             72
3. Consultancies, studies and training                  0.75             0.34             45
4. Incremental Operating Expenses                       1.48             0.74            50
Total Baseline Cost                                    30.00            20.20
Physical Contingencies                                 0.00             0.00              0
Price Contingencies                                    0.00             0.00              0
Total Project Costs                30.00           20.20
Total Financing Required                30.00            20.20
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expedture C ory           ICB       Procurement Method                       Total Cost
Expenditur Category  cs          NCB         Other'        N.B.F.      TtlCs
1. Works                     0.00          12.80        14.79         0.00         27.59
(0.00)       (4.30)       (4.80)        (0.00)        (9.10)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.09          0.09         0.00          0.18
(0.00)       (0.07)       (0.06)        (0.00)        (0.13)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         0.75          0.00          0.75
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.29)        (0.00)        (0.29)
4. Incremental Operating     0.00          0.00          1.48         0.00          1.48
Expenses
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.48)        (0.00)        (0.48)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      0.00         12.89        17.11         0.00          30.00
(0.00)       (4.37)       (5.63)        (0.00)       (10.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement MethodI
Expenditure Category      ICB           NCu          Other'       N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          15.79        3.20          0.00         18.99
(0.00)       (6.41)       (3.00)        (0.00)        (9.41)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.13          0.00         0.00          0.13
(0.00)       (0.13)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.13)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00          0.34         0.00          0.34
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.23)        (0.00)        (0.23)
- 29 -



4. Incremental Operating         0.00           0.00           0.74           0.00            0.74
Expenses
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.23)         (0.00)         (0.23)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         0.00           15.92          4.28           0.00           20.20
(0.00)         (6.54)         (3.46)         (0.00)         (10.00)
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, t:echnical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
____________  00000tBank  Got.   CoP.     B0ank       Govt      CoN.    BAk "   Go t.  CoF.
Works                     9.10      3.00      .5.49      9.41       2.48      7.10    103.4  82.7   45.8
Goods                     0.13                 0.05      0.13                         100.0   0.0    0.0
Consultancies, Studies and    0.29             0.46      0.23                 0.11     79.3    0.0   23.9
training
Incremental operating     0.48                 1.00      0.23                 0.51     47.9    0.0   51.0
expenses
The Trust Fund Credit Agreement had an amount of US$0.3m unallocated which was later moved to the
Works category
- 30 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
The CDP consists of small rehabilitation works and since it is demand driven no detailed economic analysis
can be undertaken ex-ante. However during the implementation of CDP, a cost-effectiveness model was
developed with the objective to establish cost ratios as one of the criteria for project selection. The cost
effectiveness model is based on a simple scoring system using seven indicators: village/town size,
community contribution, labor content, cost per beneficiary, cost per worker, cost per person day of
employment and cost per construction day. Each of these indicators were allocated scores from 0 to 4.
Individual scores were decided based on experience and studies by local researchers on employment
generation programs. For example:
Labor Content        Score                 Community Contribution               Score
Oto 10%                      0                            Oto 10%                      0
10to20%                      1                            lOto20%                      1
20to30%                      2                            20to30%                      2
over 30%                     4
The data for the seven indicators were obtained from the project appraisal forms and input into an excel
sheet. A scoring system was developed for acceptance or rejection of the proposal based on aggregate
scores. The maximum score was 25 and minimum was 2. Projects with scores above 10 were acceptable.
This model was used as part of appraisal but was only one of several criteria for project selection.
- 31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                         Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/96                              1 ENV EGR, I CIVIL ENG
Appraisal/Negotiation
12/96                              1 ENV EGR, 2 SOCIAL
SCIENTISTS, I CIVIL
ENG
01/97
Supervision
12/97                          3   1 ENV EGR, 1 HWY EGR,                 S                 S
I CI[VIL EGR
06/98                          3   1 ENV EGR, 1 HWY EGR, I               S                 S
CIWiIL EGR
11/98                          3   1 ENV EGR, I HWY EGR, I               S                 S
OPE.RATIONS ANALYST
05/99                          3   I ENV EGR, I CIVIL EGR, I             S                 S
OPIERATIONS ANALYST
10/99                          3   1 ENV EGR, I CIVIL EGR, I            S                  S
OPE'RATIONS ANALYST
ICR
I ENV ENG, I HWY ENG,                S                 S
1 OPERATIONS
ANALYST
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle  f                 Actual/Latest Estimate
__ _ __ _   No. Staff weeks         US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                18.2                        67.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                     17.1                         40.8
Supervision                              104.7                       225.2
ICR                               .
Total                                    141).0                      333.5
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
LII Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
LI Sector Policies                        O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
C Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
D Financial                               O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
CJ1 Institutional Development             0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
L Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
D Gender                           O H OSUOM O N O NA
O Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
D Private sector development              0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
D Public sector management                0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
0 Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
FI Lending                                          OHS OS  OLu  OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  OHU
E Overall                                           OHS OS   OU  OHU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
I Preparation                                       OHS OS   O U  O HU
O Government implementation performance             OHS OS  O  U  O HU
LI Implementation agency performance                O HS O s  0 U  0 HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS O U O HU
- 34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Beneficiary Impact Assessment
Procurement audit
Rapid assessment
Recent Project reports
Maintenance study
CDP- Video film
- 35 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
There have been three BIAs conducted on the CDP over the last two and half years. Attached is a brief on
the methodology used, findings and recommendations. Detailed BIAs are part of documents on file.
The overall objective of the BIA was to provid? the necessary qualitative inputs to improve the impact of
the CDP funded sub-projects on the beneficiary communities. In addition, the BIA attempted to determine
the relationship between the CDP's methods of project promotion, appraisal and supervision and the level
of satisfaction of the beneficiary communities. In order to achieve its overall objective, BIA collected
specific information on:
-     overall performance of CDP;
-     beneficiary satisfaction;
-     beneficiary participation;
-     selection criteria;
-     institutional impact; and
-     subproject sustainability.
The BIA primarily relied on the following three data collection techniques:
(a)   in-depth interviews around key themes or topics - with individual beneficiaries or with groups;
(b)   focus group discussions - with a number of beneficiaries, and often used as a forum for
interviewing them or   for conducting institutional assessment;
(c)    direct observation - of the existing socio-economic conditions within the communities which are
assessed.
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS
Over 90% of the communities were satisfied with the CDP interventions. In the words of a
community member " The PA has provided us with something in place of nothing". However, there was
repeated and eager requests from both genders for specific infrastructure facilities specifically targeted
towards the women, youth and children.
Performance of Implementing Agency
The beneficiaries and research team  compliment the overall performance of PECDAR as an
implementing agency and for the number of subprojects which are being implemented at a fast pace to
generate basic infrastructure leading to socio-economic development Furthermore, all these subprojects
are relevant to the selected communities as majority of these beneficiaries are laborers by profession. The
average daily salary of the interviewed beneficiaries is in the range of NIS 30-50.
The local communities and their representatives made repeated mention of PECDAR's accuracy
and transparency with financial transactions and dealing with contractors. Their regulations such as
mandatory presentation of invoices, receipts and approvals from line ministries for the undertaken
subprojects are highly acceptable within the communities.
PECDAR has recognized the need for7 social appraisal of its subprojects and have started to
document them for monitoring purposes. In addition, it had also added a consultant with community
development background to its team of other professionals in Gaza.
- 36 -



Selection Criteria
Most CDP subprojects are targeted to locations where there is no previous donor activity on the
basis of demand However, there is scope for improving targeting of beneficiaries by taking into account
the poverty and marginality while apportioning CDP funds.
Beneficiary Satisfaction
BIA reveals that among all the CDP interventions, the construction of schools/ lecture rooms have
created the maximum satisfaction among the beneficiaries. In general, the construction work has been well
integrated with the Ministry of Education and they are operationalized upon completion.
In cases of subprojects relating to roads, sewage lines and culverts, beneficiaries conveyed that
CDP interventions provided: (i) easier and safer mobility of people; and (ii) cleaner environment.
However, there was a mention about the need for better planning and improved quality of work especially
for the asphalt roads. In addition, in case of roads, the budget ceilings generally allow only a phased
approach sanctioning only partial completion of roads in each phase. According to the beneficiaries, this
can give rise to friction among the beneficiaries. In addition, beneficiaries lack awareness about the
concept of CDP and background of the project.
The "Beit Hanoun Culvert Project in Beit Hanoun in Gaza" has created a sense of relief and
satisfaction to the beneficiaries, as the culvert connects the Mazra'a Beit Hanoun with the rest of the town
and provides easier and safer mobility during winter. However, beneficiaries felt that the culvert would
have guaranteed more safety to pedestrians, especially children, if the railings were closer to each other and
if there was a railed fence for the portion of the road adjacent to the culvert.
IMPACT OF THE SUBPROJECT
Before building the culvert, Mustafa, a 9-year old boy from the Beit Hanoun village fell into the valley
while returning from the school. He had to remain in the hospital for many days for recovery. Today, with
the construction of the culvert under the CDP, children do notface the risk offalling into the valley.
In the rehabilitation of markets, though people were partially satisfied at the idea of getting a
larger and cleaner environment like in Khan Younis market. But, in the case of "Construction of the
Market of Jabalia Center", beneficiaries indicated that on completion of the market, the small size of shops
and the absence of ventilation will make it rather difficult for them to store fresh food such as vegetables,
especially during the hot summer days. However, PECDAR clearly explained the constraints in building
larger shops were, the limited floor space and the extra funds that were used towards providing foundation
for two storied market building. According to the research team, the complaints from the beneficiaries of
this project can be explained on the basis that they were not involved in planning of the project.
In the construction of health clinics, people were generally satisfied as the benefit is equally
distributed among all community members. In the case of "Construction of Wadi El Salqa Health Clinic"
the clinic, once operationalized, will benefit the inhabitants of the village but also the inhabitants from
neighboring locations. Today, the existing clinic is located 5 kms away and people have to walk nearly 3-4
kms before getting any means of transport.
- 37 -



However, BIA reveals that better linkages needs to be developed between the beneficiaries Local
Government and the Ministry of Health, as all the sampled subprojects show delay in operationalizing the
health clinics.
Beneficiary Participation
Some form of beneficiary participation exists in the preparation of all CDP subprojects. In all
CDP subprojects, beneficiaries participated by contributing in the form cash, space and labor. However,
there is scope for improvement in public consultation with the beneficiaries. PECDAR has started to
recognize the need to directly involve community members in identifying and prioritizing community needs
and the necessity to facilitate a better and more continuous dialogue between the local government (village
councils, municipal councils and local committees) and the community members. Community members
include both men and women in all levels of the society.
Institutional Impact
All subprojects sampled have reflected that PECDAR has to an extent strengthened the Local
Government and built their capacity by making them identify their community needs and priorities and
creating a demand for local contractors and supply of local products. The availability of CDP subprojects
have facilitated the communities to organize themselves through establishment of committees and to
strengthen the already existing ones. There is clear delegation and division of responsibilities and duties
among the village committee members.
However, the findings of BIA reveal that there is scope for improvement in PECDAR's role in
building participatory development, as continuous dialogue is lirnited between the community members and
intermediary organizations. Though intermediary organizations show accountability, the research team
indicated that there is need to initiate more effective promotional activities, to build better linkages between
the communities and the intermediary organizations and within  the intermediary organizations.  In
addition, the research team also mentioned that there is need to create accountability for operation and
maintenance within the beneficiaries.
Subproject sustainability
The subprojects have potential for sustainability as they meet the needs of the communities. But,
sustainability is questionable on the grounds that the beneficiaries are not directly Community members are
represented through the local government (municipalities, village councils and local committees). However,
the representatives are not elected. In addition, the meetings between the local governnent and the
beneficiaries are also limited. Included in all stages of project cycle except in subprojects implemented in
Gaza, where there is a consultant with Community Development background in PECDAR's Project Team.
Beneficiaries believe that Ministry of Local Government, line Ministries are responsible for the
sustainability and maintenance of these subprojects.
RECOMMENDATIONS
Workshop
As a follow-up to BIA, conduct a workshop to disseminate the field findings of BIA and to discuss
the suggested recommendations. The invitees will include: the Ministry of Local Government
- 38 -



(municipalities, village councils, and local committees), and community representatives. This was done is
provided as documents on file.
Selection of subprojects
Spell out and disseminate the criteria for selection and evaluation of beneficiary groups. Consider
pre-investment in outreach and training to precede the offer of CDP resources in order to ensure that the
poorest regions and groups are not excluded from the CDP activities due to their lack of capacity to
prepare and present viable contracts/proposals. Pre-select intermediaries disposed to conduct the required
outreach and training for the poor beneficiaries. This will assist in ensuring that the proposals are demand
driven and all sectors of the beneficiaries including women are well represented.
Select subprojects based not only on the demand from communities, but also on the basis of the
type of beneficiaries making the demand. For instance prioritize proposals coming from poor and
vulnerable groups According to the sampled locations, women, youth and children are the vulnerable
groups of communities. According to the research team this can be achieved through increased number of
public consultations to facilitate better participation of beneficiaries in subproject selection and finally
screening the proposals at the project unit level to understand who from the community is making the
demand. Apply more rigorous targeting strategy to take into account poverty in apportioning CDP funds.
This is mandatory to create an impact on the desired beneficiaries, and to deter possible complaints of bias
and subjectivity.
Prioritize subprojects such as schools, clinics, water, sewage, and market facilities as beneficiaries
repeatedly requested these subprojects. According to the beneficiaries, facilitate construction of schools to
provide more number of educational facilities for children, especially girls. Increase construction of
preparatory and secondary schools for girls to continue education as tradition and transport constraints
prevents girls from attending school. Encourage building large market facilities since the community
repeatedly requested this service. The market built in Khan Yunis in the Gaza Strip is a good example.
Initiate subprojects targeted to children, youth and women as BIA reveals that they are the
vulnerable groups in the communities.
* Children ( 3- 11 years) can be targeted through construction of more kindergartens, health clinics and
schools;
* Youth (12-21) can be targeted through construction of youth centers. These youth centers can be run
by community-based committees under the close supervision of the local government. In-country
successful experience of UNRWA can be duplicated by integrating construction with training the
beneficiaries on how to effectively run these establishments; and
* Women (16-50) can be targeted through construction of women program centers, health clinics and
facilities for small scale entrepreneurial activities (refer para 43). BIA clearly reveals that there is a
great demand for such facilities by women. In addition, initiate adult literacy and basic business skill
classes to complement infrastructure for small scale entrepreneurship to promote sustainability of
economic activities.
Beneficiary Participation
Promote frequent meetings with village councils and community members to coordinate selection,
implementation and supervision of subprojects at the micro-regional level. Document the number of public
consultation held during the project cycle along with the list of people who attended it. This will give a
- 39 -



clear picture about the extent of participation by the beneficiaries. In addition, also list out the number and
types of training provided to the beneficiaries in this context.
Plan and organize well-structured prcmotional campaigns through mosques, public meetings,
diwans, etc. in order to disseminate the information relating to:
* guidelines for targeting strategy;
* criteria for scoring and prioritizing micro-projects;
* objectives of the micro-project;
* proposed cost and time schedule of the micro-project;
* role and responsibilities of local government, PECDAR and the beneficiaries in all stages of project
cycle including the operation; and
* maintenance, and proposed impact/benefits of completed subprojects.
In addition, women only meetings are hleld in Gaza, but not to the desired extent possible; thus,
more women only meetings should be encouraged for the duration of the promotional activities, to
increase women's knowledge of the concept of CDP and their potential to influence subproject selection.
This could be done through hiring more women project officers with community development background.
Develop a database on the following indicators to monitor the promotional activities within each
beneficiary community. The responsibility shoueld be delegated to an elected beneficiary representative.
The monitoring indicators include:
* general awareness about the concept of CDII and project background;
• level of awareness about the target group and project requirements;
* type and number of promotional campaigns;
* external involvement in promotional campaigns; and
* internal involvement including the role of community in promotional campaigns.
* cost of promotional activities
Institutional Impact
Strengthen Ministry of Local Govermnent to ensure consistency of subproject selection by
communities with benchmarks of micro-regional planning and development. This can be achieved by
initiating training programs to build capacity ivithin the local government and community members to
complement infrastructure development. BIA reveals that training should be felicitated on the following:
* community needs assessment;
* recognizing and utilization of community resources
* role of PECDAR, local government, Sectional Ministries and the beneficiary;
* needs and methods of sustainability;
* lobbying
* reporting;
* documentation;
* book keeping;
* management; and
* fund raising.
-40 -



Subproject Sustainability
Activate the role of different ministries in participating in the sustainability of the subprojects.
Involve and delegate this responsibility to an elected member of the beneficiaries. This is specifically
relevant in projects related to health, education, water, and sanitation. Create awareness among the
beneficiaries about the need to monitor the subprojects during the project cycle. Initiate a process of cost
recovery and make the community responsible for collection of the user fees for all subprojects. This will
help in covering the cost of overcoming the maintenance of the implemented subprojects and build
ownership of these subprojects among the beneficiaries. The funds collected as the user fees could be
deposited in a bank and used for recurring costs.
Intensify supervision of subprojects by including externally recruited subproject supervisors.
Involve a beneficiary member during all supervision visits.  Develop the following questionnaire
specifically for service oriented infrastructure subprojects. This responsibility should be delegated to one
elected member of the beneficiary community. This will felicitate better and speedy operation of service
oriented infrastructure subprojects.
* Date of completion of the subproject;
* Ministry responsible for the operation of services;
* Intended start date;
* Actual date of operation;
* Reason for the delay if any;
* Who solved the delay; and
* How was it solved.
-41 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
The workshop was held to disseminate the field findings of the Beneficiary Impact Assessment and to
come up with recommendations from the part!cipantsforfuture programs and projects. There were 53
participants with approximately 40 coming from the local government units. The BIA was presented by
a team of social scientists and through a participatory approach six topics were identified for further
discussions by the group. The groups also agreed to come with recommendations. The six topics for
discussion were as follows:
1. Selection of subprojects
2. What constitutes sustainability
3. The importance of monitoring and evaluation
4. Roles and Responsibilities in project implementation
5. Strategy for successful project implementation
6. Capacity Building needs within communities
The participants were split into 3 groups and twD sessions were held (morning and afternoon). Each group
was organized to include a mix of local government officials, community members and implementing
agencies to strengthen synergies. The recommendations from each of the grouping is provided below:
Group 1: How should CDP projects be selectedt.
Recommendations of the Group
* Each local council should prioritize proposals and if capacity exists undertake other preparatory studies
such as preliminary design and drawings.
* The local council should transfer the project proposals and studies to the Ministry of Local Government
and discuss the priorities of each project.
* PECDAR and the Ministry of Local Government should establish a joint special coordination committee
to decide and approve these projects together.
* PECDAR should submit the project proposals, which have been approved by the joint committee to the
World Bank for final approval. After the approval, a copy of the approved projects should be sent to the
Ministry of the Local Government.
* The Ministry of Local Government should conduct field visits in the areas, to assess the needs of these
areas.
* The geographical, strategic, and political location of the village or town or city should be taken into
consideration when prioritizing projects.
Group 2: Sustainability of Projects
The group first discussed the definition of sustainability and agreed that sustainability is the ability of the
project to continue providing services to the local community and preserve the development of the service.
The group also discussed the following two questions:
- 42 -



What are the requirements for sustainability:
Financial support.
* Effective planning and management
Establish suitable criteria for implementing the project, (Monitoring the project).
* The continuation of facilities and support by the other ministries and concemed officials.
Organizational Structure
* National commitment and awareness towards sustainability.
* Attracting investors to take part in funding projects.
What are the obstacles facing sustainability:
Lack of participation from the local community.
Lack of cooperation from the different ministries.
Lack of funding.
Lack of qualified persons.
Lack of planning.
Responsibility for Operation and Maintenance:
The participants felt that the responsibility for the O&M is very important to sustainability and the
responsibility for O&M should lie with the local councils, together with the community and specialized
ministries.
Group 3: Monitoring and Evaluation
Definition of Monitoring and Evaluation
To identify the needs of the local community, taking into consideration the traditions and culture.
To document and disseminate information to the local community.
Recommendations:
Design a format for the evaluation process.
Provide the local councils with the criteria and conditions of the projects.
The local councils should take part in evaluating and monitoring the projects.
Community members should also play a role in the monitoring the progress of the projects.
Group 4: The Roles and Responsibilities under CDP
PECDAR
To promote the CDP and seek funding
To monitor implementation progress both financially and technically.
To assist in the preparation of project proposals and bidding documents when there is lack of capacity in
the LGUs.
To share with the Ministry of Local Government approved projects for implementation.
To Assist the local council take part in the implementation process.
To organize the relation between the beneficiaries and the implementing agency.
Ministry of Local Government
To approve projects.
-43 -



To assist the local community in paying the contribution requested for the project.
* To take part in preparing plans for the local councils who do have technical teams.
* To monitor and direct the local councils in solving problems they cannot solve.
* To help local councils in obtaining funding for projects.
* To coordinate with the local councils the external contributions.
To identify priorities for the projects( a central plan) for the areas.
Local Government Units and Communities:
* To choose projects according to needs and priorities.
To prepare the needed plans for the project.
To take operate in the monitoring of the bidding and tenders.
* To contribute financially and in kind to the prcject.
To raise the awareness of the public before and after the project.
* To preserve the project and its sustainability.
Group 5: Strategy for Implementing Projects
Recommendations:
Planning and studying the project by the community.
To publicize the importance of the project in the community.
* To conduct a social assessment for the project.
* To establish community committees for each project.
* To employ social scientists to study the ground situation and help in implementing the project
To utilize the community resources.
Group 6: Capacity Building for Preparation and Implementation
Recommendations:
Assist the local councils in setting up a criteria for identifying the needs of the local community.
Train local council members on the following:
- Managerial duties, such as filing, bookkeeping, and other skills.
- How to submit a project proposal.
- How to identify priorities.
- How to obtain the needed permits and papers, including how to prepare tenders and bidding.
* How to increase transparency and enhance local involvement:
- Distribute leaflets about the duties and responsibilities of the members of the local councils.
- Distribute the council organizational structuie.
- Receive and respond to public complaints.
- Provide information about the roles and responsibilities of all stakeholders - communities, LGUs,
PECDAR, MOLG. and other sector ministries.
Training requirements:
- Training in Public Relations and communication skills.
- 44 -



- Accounting
- Management
- Organization and planning.
- Technical assistance and training
- How to deal with the public's complaints.
Evaluation of the Workshop by the Participants:
More than a day needed for the workshop in the future and there needs to better coordination on
preparation of the agenda
The Assessment and the workshop were the most important step towards improving the CDP.
The workshop was very important and gave the stakeholders an opportunity to express their views.
The workshop was very successful and leads to the development of the local community.






z¢sv  reW, 3's4.144  r-/  !s       '3;4°               4, 4530'              4414     
(X  1    _')WEST BANK
and
4214'GAZA
/ X   X    jf Y'bad                                                              +    AIRPORTS / AIRFIELDS
2                                                                           =   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAJOR HIGHWAYS
I,                              g                               t X J~~- uwf V 23bl3ha  e  )TWO OR MORE LANES,
HARD SURFACED ROADS
azvj7                                                                       4> r--i  RAILROADS
--   S-7--  l1t>-<A          3                         \ Tuba's  -    <'         '* I             BUILT-UPAREAS
T u                  t              -  / - ->02 -<-=-*-^ ' 1< -a UNRWA REFUGEE CAMPS
rx ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS
Noiblus
!V ~ /  2         4,->          <      ¢'           9Ri             2 S           -     ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949
'C{,t -   ---4  $   _   F fl !             ,S  '       ,  {    3zlt;    L      NO-MAN'S LAND AREAS,
Q  I                                       {( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  /   ~ ~ RISIEDEMARCATION LINE, 1949
S.    .    t  JERUSALEM CITY LIMIT, UNILATERALLY
I             ±1'                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~EXPANDED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1967;
--L t_S S-x->_;                            mS-  >  $Z  t     *      f      F     aS I  THEN ANNEXED JULY 3O 1980
Solf0  ;   513¢eet   .) .   1 ' '*e, b  t  /  z   >        -     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-1S<31A t ~~~~~~~ W ~E ST                                     4 / i  
AisRAEL                   >t'>   B --A/N} K                          4 z           -A
/~~~
I       -~~~~~-
31W          /               _          J                                  g,_t/a)3'3
JORDAN
'AlBfh    "
|   /   ;  Aah \.,_               /        /              . - -  . g              /427(X_fFluf  \ \  iSRAEL~~~~~~~~~~~~~SRAE
12   V  ,               ,                ,        ,        - f J            g       t      iS   <                31Yg-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- '' .
'y~~~~~~~~~~~'
S                                     -~~~~~~~~~E
.    j -9     Th boundu y.colorhUenorjyhonsmdo,yollermCmrmn2 - /  g     3    3lYo  :,ash3h  oJ \ xlifv 3hne5ev o   l S      B   D
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRE
H br                      I .E. d--
on-tk..  -44  zZ1"W1 R1
___________                                                               "*~~~~-



