Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF 024112
Trust Fund Credit Agreement
(Community Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (Acting as Administrator of  the Trust Fund for 
Gaza and West Bank)
and
PALESTINIAN ECONOMIC COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION
(an Agency of the Palestine Liberation Organization)
Dated April 2, 1997
TF 024112
TRUST FUND CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 2, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, 
acting as administrator (the Administrator) of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank, 
established on October 19, 1993, by Resolution No. 93-11 and IDA 93-7, as amended by 
Resolution No. 95-6 and IDA 95-3, and as further amended by Resolution No. 96-11 and 
IDA 96-7, of the Executive Directors of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development and the International Development Association (the Trust Fund), and 
PALESTINIAN ECONOMIC COUNCIL FOR DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION (the Borrower), an 
agency established and operating under a Basic Regulation issued on May 14, 1994, 
under a Decree from the Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Palestine 
Liberation Organization (PLO).
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development and the International Development Association has resolved, on 
February 3, 1997, to inter alia, replenish the Trust Fund in the amount of ninety 
million dollars ($90,000,000) such amount to be transferred from the surplus of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and to be used for financing 
rehabilitation projects in those areas of the Gaza Strip (Gaza) and the West Bank  
(the West Bank) which are under the jurisdiction of the Palestinian Authority;
(B)
the Borrower has been established specifically to coordinate and 
implement programs and projects for the development and reconstruction of the West 
Bank and Gaza and to be the recipient of funds allocated therefor;
Page  2
(C)
the Borrower has requested the Administrator to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project);
(D)
under the Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement on the West Bank and the 
Gaza Strip between the PLO and the Government of the State of Israel, dated September 
28, 1995, the parties thereto agreed to the establishment of the Palestinian 
Authority;
(E)
the Palestinian Authority has made specific representations to the 
Administrator confirming the power of the Borrower to enter into this Agreement and as 
to the succession arrangements to be made with respect to rights and obligations of 
the Borrower in case of its full or partial dissolution, reconstitution or merger; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions" set forth in Schedule 1 to the Trust Fund 
Credit Agreement between the Administrator and the Borrower, dated September 7, 1994, 
relating to the Emergency Rehabilitation Project  (TF 026066 GZ), with the following 
modifications thereto (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall 
be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member 
of the Administrator or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or 
(b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision 
of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations.”
(b)
 Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Administrator.  If (a) the right of 
the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to any amount of 
the Credit for a continuous period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Administrator 
determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (c) 
at any time, the Administrator determines, with respect to any 
contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory 
to the 
Administrator to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount 
of expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Administrator determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to in the Trust Fund Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in 
respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after the 
Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the 
Credit Account, the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate 
the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the 
giving of 
such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be cancelled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  3
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Beneficiary" means a municipality in the West Bank or Gaza or such other 
local government agency to which the Borrower proposes to make, or has made, a 
Sub-project Grant (as this term is hereinafter defined);
(b)
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower’s manual, whose content has been 
agreed upon with the Administrator, which sets out the terms, conditions, procedures 
and eligibility criteria pursuant to which the Borrower shall carry out Part A of the 
Project, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Administrator;
(c)
"Sub-project" means a specific project to rehabilitate or upgrade, inter 
alia, the water supply system, the sanitation system, medical clinics, primary schools 
or feeder roads in the West Bank or Gaza, or to improve solid waste management 
therein;
(d)
“Sub-project Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the 
Borrower out of the proceeds of the Credit to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project; and 
(e)
"Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
amounts paid (or if the Administrator shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on 
account of expenditures under a Sub-project Grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods 
and services required for the Sub-project; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if the 
Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods 
and services required for Parts B and C of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 15, 1999, or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Administrator a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate 
to be set by the Administrator as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate 
of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.*
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
Page  4
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Administrator a service charge at 
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in 
semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 
2007, and ending January 15, 2017. Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on January 15, 2017, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and 
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, environmental, technical and financial practices and in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time by mutual agreement of the Borrower and the 
Administrator, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Administrator a plan to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; 
and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to 
the Administrator;
Page  5
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than 
six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator 
shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records 
and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
disbursement from the Credit Account 
was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Managing Director of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Palestinian Economic Council
   for Development and Reconstruction
El-Ram, West Bank
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  6
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Gaza as of  the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION As Administrator 
   of the Trust Fund  for Gaza and West Bank
By /s/ Odin K. Knudsen    
Authorized Representative
PALESTINIAN ECONOMIC COUNCIL FOR
DEVELOPMENT AND RECONSTRUCTION
By /s/ Abdelrahman Hamad
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Sub-project
    9,100,000
100%
Grants under Part A 
of the Project
(2)
Goods under Parts
      130,000
100%
B and C of the Project
(3)
Consultants’ services 
      230,000
100%
and training under Parts
B and C of the Project
(4)
Operating Expenditures
      230,000
100%
(5)
Unallocated
      310,000
    TOTAL
   10,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Operating Expenditures" means 
expenditures incurred by the Borrower, in respect of Part C of the Project, on account 
of salaries, rental of office space, maintenance and insurance of vehicles, fuel, 
telephone charges, and domestic travel and other related expenditures.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
Page  7
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) payments made under Sub-project 
Grants; (b) expenditures for contracts costing less than the equivalent of $100,000 
for services of consulting firms and $50,000 for services of individual consultants; 
and (c) Operating Expenditures.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to rehabilitate and restore basic economic and 
social infrastructure in towns and villages in the West Bank and Gaza, and increase 
temporary job opportunities for unskilled and semi-skilled laborers therein.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
 Community Development
Provision by the Borrower of Sub-project Grants to Beneficiaries to carry out 
Sub-projects.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening
Carrying out a program consisting of the provision to Beneficiaries of goods, 
staff training and expert services for purposes of, inter alia, increasing the 
capabilities of Beneficiaries to prepare, manage and implement Sub-projects.
Part C:
Project Management Support
Support to the Borrower through, inter alia, the provision of goods, expert 
services and training, and the preparation of studies, to ensure effective supervision 
of Project execution.
*     *     *     *     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by January 15, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Administrator in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) 
and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
Procurement under Sub-projects
Goods and works under Part A of the Project shall be procured in accordance with 
procedures set forth in the Operational Manual, which have been found acceptable to 
the Administrator.
2.
Procurement under Parts B and C of the Project
a.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
Page  8
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
b.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
With respect to contracts for goods and works under the first three (3) 
Sub-projects, financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Part A of the 
Project, and to each contract for goods under Parts B and C of the Project estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' and training services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the 
Administrator in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based 
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for 
consultants' services issued by the Administrator, with such modifications thereto as 
shall have been agreed by the Administrator. Where no relevant standard contract 
documents have been issued by the Administrator, other standard forms acceptable to 
the Administrator shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Administrator review shall not 
apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Administrator, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Overall Project Implementation
1.
The Borrower shall: (a) maintain arrangements, satisfactory to the 
Administrator, for the overall coordination and supervision of Project execution; (b) 
employ, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, consultants, with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Administrator, to assist in the carrying out of Parts B and C of the Project; and (c) 
ensure that training activities under Parts B and C of the Project shall be carried 
out in accordance with programs, including time-schedules for the implementation 
thereof and criteria for the selection of candidates thereunder, agreed between the 
Borrower and the Administrator.
2.
The Borrower shall:  (a) maintain procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
Page  9
and evaluate on an on-going basis, in accordance with indicators agreed with the 
Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;  (b) prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator: (i) by March 1 of each year until completion of the 
Project, a report, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant of subparagraph (a) above, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period of twelve (12) months preceding the date of such 
report, and (ii) on or about December 1, 1997, a mid-term report, integrating the data 
and other information contained in the reports prepared pursuant to subparagraph (b) 
(i) above, on the progress achieved in carrying out the Project during the period 
preceding the date thereof and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project during the period following such date; and (c) 
review with the Administrator each such report, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of such report 
and the Administrator’s views on the matter.
B.
Part A of the Project
The Borrower shall maintain arrangements, satisfactory to the Administrator, 
pursuant to which the Borrower shall: (a) select Beneficiaries, approve Sub-projects, 
make Sub-project Grants and otherwise carry out its activities under Part A of the 
Project in accordance with the terms, conditions, procedures, criteria and other 
details set forth in the Operational Manual; and (b) adopt procedures, satisfactory to 
the Administrator, to (i) monitor against specific outcome indicators agreed with the 
Administrator, the carrying out by Beneficiaries of Sub-projects and the achievement 
of the objectives of Part A of the Project; and (ii) prepare for inclusion in the 
reports referred to in paragraph A.2 (b) of this Schedule, all information required to 
assess the progress of Part A of the Project and the achievement of its objectives.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), and (4) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule equivalent to $3,000,000 provided, however, that unless the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation for the Special Account 
shall be limited to an amount $2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,  and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account, shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, on the basis of such request 
or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
Page  10
(b)
 (i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as 
the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Admini\1fstrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
Page  11
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
