Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1818 BO
(Power Sector Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD, S.A.
Dated July 31, 1987
CREDIT NUMBER 1818 BO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 1987 between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD, S.A. (ENDE).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith  between 
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) and the Association, the  Association has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in  various currencies equivalent to five 
million three hundred thousand  Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,300,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition 
that ENDE agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth 
in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and ENDE, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be made available to ENDE on the terms  and conditions set forth in 
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS ENDE, in consideration of the Association's entering into the  
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions  (as so defined) 
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section  2.01. (a) ENDE declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence, efficiency  and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering  and power utility  practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and ENDE shall otherwise agree, ENDE shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program  set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. ENDE shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating respectively to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and  schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. ENDE shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ENDE shall not change 
or fail to enforce any provision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.05. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the 
General Conditions, ENDE shall: (a) at the request of the Association,  exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement, under  the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ENDE of  its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. ENDE shall: (a) by no later than October 31, 1987, furnish to the 
Association a proposed program, acceptable to the Association, for the transfer of its 
generation facilities with a capacity  under five megawatts to the Distribution 
Companies; and (b) carry out such  transfer program by March 31, 1988.
Section 2.07. ENDE shall: (a) under terms of reference satisfactory to  the 
Association, commence by not later than October 31, 1987, an asset  revaluation study; 
(b) promptly upon completion of the study, furnish to  the Association and DINE for 
its review and comment, the results of such study and propose a preliminary 
methodology for asset revaluation; (c) taking into consideration the results of the 
study and the comments of the Association and DINE propose, by not later than June 30, 
1988, a final  methodology for asset revaluation acceptable to the Association; and 
(d)  promptly thereafter adopt the methodology acceptable to the Association and  
begin revaluation of assets for purposes of its annual financial statements  utilizing 
such methodology.
Section 2.08. ENDE shall: (a) by May 31, 1988 prepare and submit to the 
Association and the Borrower for their review and comment, a preliminary Power 
Expansion Master Plan, under terms of reference satisfactory to the  Association and 
taking into account the results of the Energy Assessment,  to define least-cost 
investments to expand the power sector through the year 2010; (b) by September 30, 
1988 and taking into account the comments of the Borrower and the Association, prepare 
Page  3
a final Power Expansion Master Plan, acceptable to the Association, and the Borrower; 
and (c) unless otherwise agreed by the Association, ensure that all investments in the 
power sector made or supervised by ENDE, shall be made in accordance with  the final 
Power Expansion Master Plan as the same may be revised from time to time in a manner 
acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.09. ENDE shall: (a) under terms of reference satisfactory to  the 
Association, commence by not later than October 31, 1987 a study to  develop an 
Integrated Management Information System; (b) by not later than June 30, 1988, prepare 
and submit to the Association for its review and comment, a proposal for an Integrated 
Management Information System; (c) by not later than October 31, 1988, taking into 
account the comments of the Association, prepare a final Integrated Management 
Information System, acceptable to the Association; and (d) implement such System 
beginning in fiscal year 1989.
Section 2.10. ENDE: (a) shall establish and maintain, through completion of the 
Project, a Project Unit with a membership composition acceptable to the Association, 
headed by a Project Manager, acceptable to the Association, for purposes of 
coordinating, monitoring and evaluating  the implementation of the Project; and (b) 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not make changes affecting the 
Project Unit or the Project Manager.
Section 2.11. ENDE shall pass, and promptly thereafter implement, a resolution 
of its Board of Directors which shall establish ENDE's  responsibility to: (i) 
construct generation plants, approved by DINE, with  a capacity of over one megawatt 
but less than five megawatts; (ii) construct  and operate all generation plants with a 
capacity of over five megawatts; and (iii) construct and operate the national 
transmission system and the energy dispatch center; and except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, ENDE shall not change or fail to enforce to provisions of such 
resolution.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ENDE
Section 3.01. ENDE shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound public utility, administrative, financial, and management 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced  management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ENDE shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as  needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and power utility practices.
Section 3.03. ENDE shall take out and maintain with responsible  insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.02 of  this 
Agreement, ENDE shall, under arrangements satisfactory to the Association, cause the 
dams and related structures it owns, to be  periodically inspected in accordance with 
sound engineering practices, in order to determine whether there are any deficiencies 
in the condition of  such structures, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance of 
the same,  which may endanger their safety. To this end, ENDE shall propose to the 
Association arrangements, acceptable to the Association, for periodic  review and 
maintenance of its dams and related structures.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ENDE shall maintain records and accounts adequate to  reflect, 
in accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and  financial 
condition, including separate records and accounts adequate to reflect all resources 
and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
ENDE shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
Page  4
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, ENDE shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until one year after the Association has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last disbursement 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn in respect of 
such expenditures, including the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, were used for the purposes for 
which they were provided, as well as whether the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ENDE shall 
earn: (i) for  the fiscal year ending in 1988, an annual rate of return of not less 
than 2% of the average current net value of ENDE's rate base;  (ii) for the fiscal 
year ending in 1989, an annual rate of return of not less than 4% of the average 
current net value of ENDE's rate base; (iii) for the fiscal year ending in 1990, an 
annual return of not less than 7% of the average current net value of ENDE's rate 
base; and (iv) for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending in 1990, the 
annual rate of  return established in Article 122 of the Electricity Code.
(b)
Before September 1 in each of its fiscal years, ENDE shall, on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by ENDE and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in  respect of such year and 
the next five fiscal years and shall furnish to the Association the results of such 
review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that ENDE would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for ENDE's fiscal years covered by such review,  ENDE shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without  limitation, requesting 
authorization from DINE to adjust its tariff and  rates) in order to meet such 
requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The annual rate of return shall be calculated by dividing ENDE's 
net operating income for the fiscal year in question by one-half 
of the sum of current net value of ENDE's rate base at the 
beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.
(ii)
The term "net operating income" means total operating revenues 
less total operating expenses.
(iii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
Page  5
sources related to operations.
(iv)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes 
(excluding income tax) and payments in lieu of taxes, and 
provision for depreciation and amortization on a basis acceptable 
to the Association, but excluding interest and other charges on 
debt.
(v)
The term "current net value of ENDE's rate base" means the gross 
value of ENDE's rate base as determined by Article 119 of the 
Electricity Code (which includes, inter alia, ENDE's fixed assets 
in operation and working capital) less the amount of accumulated 
depreciation of fixed assets in operation, as revalued from time 
to time in accordance with sound and consistently maintained 
methods of revaluation, including those established as a result of 
the Asset Revaluation Study, satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ENDE shall 
not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of 
ENDE shows that the estimated net revenues of ENDE for each  fiscal year during the 
term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service 
requirements of ENDE in such year on all debt of ENDE including the debt to be 
incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of ENDE maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which its is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges and interest and other 
charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes (excluding income tax) and 
payments in lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of 
revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the Aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by ENDE 
not earlier than three months prior to the incurrence of the debt 
in question, which both the Association and ENDE accept as 
reasonable and as to which the Association has notified ENDE of 
its acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may reasonable be expected in the 
future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial 
condition or future operating results of ENDE.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
Page  6
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. Unless otherwise agreed by the Association, ENDE shall:  (i) 
refrain from declaring or paying any cash dividend on account of any of  its shares, 
or repurchasing any of its shares, or making other payments or advances to government 
or government-owned shareholders; and (ii) refrain from making loans to Distribution 
Companies.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
ENDE thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section,  the 
Association shall promptly notify ENDE of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered  by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For Empresa Nacional de Electricidad, S.A.:
Empresa Nacional de Electricidad, S.A.
Casilla 565
Cochabamba, Bolivia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
ENELECTRIC
6251
Page  7
Cochabamba
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ENDE, or by 
ENDE on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the General Manager of ENDE or such other person or persons as the General 
Manager of ENDE shall  designate in writing, and ENDE shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient  evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,  each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD, S.A.
By /s/ Fernando Illanes
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods, and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those  set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under  IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Bolivia may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Contracts for spare parts for which there is a sole source of supply, and for 
proprietary goods, may be purchased by direct contracting with the supplier or 
manufacturer, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods or works estimated to  cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. When payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association 
Page  8
pursuant to said  paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall 
apply. When payments for such contract are to be made  out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure  that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other  information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall  not 
apply to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from 
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of  expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section  4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist ENDE in the carrying out of the Project, ENDE shall employ 
engineering, financial and management consultants whose qualifications, experience and 
terms of reference and conditions of  employment shall be satisfactory to the 
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and 
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Unless otherwise agreed by the Association, the following program shall be 
followed during implementation of the Project:
  Issue of
   Bidding      Award        Implementation
Activity        Documents   Contracts    Start      Finish
1.
Spare Parts     May 1987    Sept. 1987   Oct. 1987  June 1994
 
2.
Substation      Nov. 1987   June 1988    July 1988  Sept. 1990
Equipment
and Materials
3.
Transmission    March 1988  Sept. 1988   Oct. 1988  Sept. 1990
Line, Equip-
ment and
Materials
4.
Construction    July 1988   March 1989   June 1989  June 1994
Works
5.
Engineering     Aug. 1987   Oct. 1987    Nov. 1987  June 1994
Consultants
6.
Financial       Aug. 1987   Oct. 1987    Nov. 1987  June 1992
Consultants
7.
Managerial      Aug. 1987   Oct. 1987    Nov. 1987  June 1992
Consultants
