CREDIT NUMBER 1818 BO
Development Credit Agreement
(Power Sector Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1818 BO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1987, between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the BoY,rower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Project will be carried out by EMPRESA NACIONAL DE
ELECTRICIDAD, S.A. (ENDE) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to ENDE
the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement, of even date herewith, between the Association
and ENDE;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
(the General Conditions), with the last sentence of Section 3.02
deleted, constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ENDE of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;


﻿-2-
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ENDE pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d) "ENDE" means Empresa Nacional de Electricidad, S.A. a
public utility wholly owned, by the Borrower and established by
Decreto Supremo No. 05999 of February 9, 1962, Decreto Supremo No.
06792 of June 9, 1964, Decreto Supremo No. 07591 of April 10,
1966, and Resoluci6n Suprema No   127462 of February 4, 1965, of
the Borrower;
(e) "Project Unit" means the unit to be established pursuant
to Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement; and "Project Manager"
means the individual appointed by ENDE to head the Project Unit;
(f) "DINE" means Direcci6n Nacional de Electricidad, a
department of the Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons of the
Borrower;
(g) "COBEE-BPC" means the Compafiia Boliviana de Energia
E16ctrica, S A. - Bolivian Power Company, a privately owned
corporation, engaged in the generation and distribution of power
in the cities of La Paz and Oruro;
(h) "Electricity Code" means C6digo de Electricidad, Decreto
Supremo No. 8438 of July 31, 1968, as the same may be revised or
amended from time to time by the Borrower;
(i) "Decreto Supremo No. 21527" means the Supreme Decree of
February 26, 1987 of the Borrower, establishing, inter alia, a
system of tariff and rate adjustments for the provision of power
to Distribution Companies (as hereinafter defined);
(j) "Distribution Companies" means companies, privately or
publicly owned, engaged in distribution of power to consumers in
Bolivia;
(k) "Power Expansion Master Plan" means the national plan
for power expansion to be developed by ENDE pursuant to Section
2.08 of the Project Agreement;


﻿- 3 -
(1) "Management Information System" means the integrated
system for retaining and utilizing information required to manage
ENDE, to be developed pursuant to Section 2.09 of the Project
Agreement;
(m) "Energy Assessment" means the assessment of the energy
sector in the territory of the Borrower, including analysis of
energy resources, tariffs and pricing, which is being carried out
pursuant to the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
Project Document 86/025 BO;
(n) "Asset Revaluation Study" means the study to be carried
out by ENDE pursuant to Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement; and
(o) "national currency" means the unit of currency of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to five million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 5,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made, or if the
Association shall so agree, to be made, in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a Special Account in a commercial
bank acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provi-
sions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1994, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per ann=m on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1997, and ending March 1,
2037. Each installment to and including the installment payable on
March 1, 2007, shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2,08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2,09. The Central Bank of Bolivia is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2,02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause ENDE to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of ENDE
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ENDE to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to ENDE under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and ENDE, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association and which shall
include the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not change or fail to enforce any pro-
vision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating respectively to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the
Project shall be carried out by ENDE pursuant to Section 2.03 of
the Project Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) above, including the Special Account, for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested,
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in
respect of such expenditures, were used for the
purposes for which they were provided, and whether
the procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to:
(a) place into legal effect, the provisions of the Elec-
tricity Code which have given DINE the responsibility, authority
and resources required to regulate the power sector in the
territory of the Borrower, including establishing electricity
tariffs and rates for ENDE and the Distribution Companies and
carrying out the actions set forth in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d)
of this Section;


﻿-7-
(b) cause DINE to carry out, by not later than October 31,
of each year, beginning on October 31, 1988 through completion of
the Project, an annual analysis of the investment programs of ENDE
and of the Distribution Companies;
(c) cause DINE to prepare and carry out tariff studies in
conjunction with ENDE and the Distribution Companies;
(d) cause DINE to review compliance by ENDE and the Dis-
tribution Companies with the fiscal provisions of the Electricity
Code, including, without limitation, such provisions relating to
tariffs, rates and quality of service; and
(e) cause, without limitation to the reporting requirements
of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and of this and the
Project Agreement, DINE to furnish to the Association, semiannual
reports on the progress of carrying out paragraphs (b), (c) and
(d) of this Section, beginning on December 31, 1988 and every
June 30 and December 31 thereafter, through completion of the
Project.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (a) by not later than
October 31, 1987, furnish the results of the Energy Assessment to
the Association for its review and comment; (b) taking into
consideration the results of the Energy Assessment, the Asset
Revaluation Study, the comments of the Association thereon and the
final Power Expansion Master Plan, propose, by not later than
October 31, 1988, a plan of action, acceptable to the Association,
to improve the structure and level of rates of ENDE and the
Distribution Companies, including a timetable for implementation
of such plan (hereinafter referred to as "Tariff Plan"); and
(c) implement such Tariff Plan thereafter in accordance with the
agreed timetable.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall take all measures
necessary to ensure that the system set forth in Decreto Supremo
No. 21527, of rate increases for electricity provided by ENDE is
implemented in accordance with its terms until such time as the
Borrower shall begin implementation of the Tariff Plan.
(b) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall cause DINE to issue a resolution,
regarding rates for electricity provided by ENDE, in accordance
with the provision of Decreto Supremo No. 21527, which shall
be effective until such time as the. Borrower shall begin
implementation of the Tariff Plan.


﻿-8-
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not amend the provisions of the Electricity Code.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) the provisions of Decreto Supremo No. 21007 of
August 1, 1985 (providing procedures for procurement of goods,
works and consultants' services by ENDE) shall continue in effect
through completion of the Project; and
(b) ENDE maintains a level of responsibility and authority,
satisfactory to the Association, to develop and manage its
operational budget.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to: (a) establish that ENDE shall have the responsibility and
authority to plan the expansion of the national generation and
transmission system, based on the energy policies of the Borrower;
and (b) enable ENDE to carry out the provisions of Section 2.11 of
the Project Agreement.
Section 4.07. The Borrover shall: (a) furnish to the
Association, on a quarterly basis, beginning, in January 1988, a
report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the progress of negotiations with COBEE-BPC
regarding the contract for generating and distributing electricity
in the cities of La Paz and Oruro (hereinafter called the "COBEE-
BPC Contract"); and (b) by not later than December 31, 1988,
furnish to the Association, a plan of action, acceptable to the
Association, with respect to the provision of power in such cities
after the expiration, of the COBEE-BPC Contract.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall, through DINE: (a) review
and comment upon the Asset Revaluation Study carried out by ENDE
pursuant to Section 2.07 of the Projecr Agreement; and (b) assist
ENDE in applying the methodology referred to in Section 2.07 (d)
of the Project Agreement in the revaluation of ENDE's assets.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall: (a) by December 31, 1987,
furnish to the Association a plan of action, acceptable to the
Association, for the transfer of ENDE shares previously owned by
CBF; and (b) ensure that such plan of action maintains a level of
autonomy, acceptable to the Association, with respect to the
operation of ENDE.


﻿- 9 -
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall: (a) approve by not later
than September 30, 1988, a final Power Expansion Master Plan,
acceptable to the Association, prepared by ENDE pursuant to
Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement and the comments of the
Association; and (b) except as otherwise agreed with the
Association, ensure that all investment in the power sector shall
be made in accordance with the final Power Expansion Master Plan,
as the same may be revised from time to time in a manner
acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.11. The Borrower shall, through DINE, and by
November 30 of each year, take all measures, including without
limitation, the authorization of changes in tariffs and rates,
necessary to ensure compliance with the rate of return
requirements for ENDE set forth in Section 4.02 of the Project
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) ENDE shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that ENDE will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) Decretos Supremos Nos. 05999, 06792, or 07591 or
Resoluci6n Suprema No. 127462 of the Borrower shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the operations of ENDE and its ability to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ENDE or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) The Borrower, DINE, or any other authority having
jurisdiction, shall have changed the provisions of Decreto Supremo
No. 21527 or the resolution referred to in paragraph (b) of


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.04 of this Agreement without the prior agreement of the
Association.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred to in Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement shall have been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and ENDE;
(b) all measures necessary to carry out Sections 4.02 (a)
and 4.06 (a) of this Agreement have been taken by the Borrower;
(c) the Borrower shall have caused DINE to issue the
resolution referred to in Section 4.04 (b) of this Agreement;
(d) ENDE shall have appointed the Project Manager and
established the Project Unit referred to in Section 2.10 of the
Project Agreement, both acceptable to the Association; and
(e) ENDE shall have passed the resolution referred to in
Section 2.11 of the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General


﻿- 11 -
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly executed and
authorized or ratified by ENDE, and is legally binding upon ENDE
in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly exe-
cuted and authorized or ratified by the Borrower and ENDE and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and ENDE in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.03. The date 6        2        is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles
III and IV   of this Agreement, and the provisions of paragraphs
(a) and (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministerio de Finanzas
La Paz
Bolivia


﻿- 12 -
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINFINANZAS                       BX 5332
La Paz, Bolivia
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By 4/S.
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                   860,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(2) Spare parts                   780,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost)
(3) Substation and              2,470,000       100% of foreign
transmission                                expenditure3 and
line equipment                              90% of local
and material                                expenditures
(ex-factory
cost)
(4) Consultants'                  895,000       100% of foreign
services                                    expenditures
(5) Unallocated                   295,000
TOTAL                 5,300,000


﻿- 14 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 160,000, may be made in respect of
spare parts under Category (2) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1987; and
(b) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $5,000 equivalent.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve and expand
power services in Bolivia; and (ii) improve the operational effi-
ciency, generation capacity and transmission system of ENDE.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Power Generation Facilities Maintenance
Acquisition and utilization of spare parts and equipment for
purposes of maintaining ENDE's generation units and appertinent
facilities.
Part B:   Substation Adaptation and Sub-transmission System
Improvements
1.   Construction of the Alalay substation (Cochabamba).
2.   Construction of the Urbana Sur substation (Santa Cruz).
3.   Modification and addition of transformers in the Potosi and
Telemayu substations in order to change voltage of transmission
lines.
4.   Addition of a transformer in the Montero substation (Santa
Cruz) in order to increase transmission capacity.
5.   Construction of a subtransmission line between Huaracachi and
S/E Sur in order to close the Santa Cruz subtransmission loop.
Part C:   Technical Assistance
1.   Engineering consultants' services to assist in:
(a) preparation of technical specifications for the procure-
ment of equipment under the Project, cost estimates and
bid evaluation;
(b) preparation of the Power Expansion Master Plan; and


﻿- 16 -
(c) the carrying out of distribution studies.
2.   Management consultants' services to assist in:
(a) development and implementation of a methodology for
revaluation of fixed assets, investments and inventories
of ENDE;
(b) development and implementation of an Integrated
Management Information System, including systems for
accounting, financial management, inventory control,
construction and maintenance; and
(c) acquisition, utilization and adaption of appropriate
computer hardware and software for the Integrated
Management Information System.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) to be withdrawn
from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the. basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for Eligible


﻿- 18 -
Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Asso-
ciation from the Credit Account under the respective Eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such and
other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, show-
ing that such payment was made for Eligible Expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Condi-
tions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the Eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligi-
ble Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2


﻿- 19 -
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furn-
ished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account and immediate cancellation.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreement
The terms and conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
shall include, inter alia, provisions that:
(i) such credit received by ENDE shall be denominated
in dollars and repaid in national currency, the
rate of exchange to be determined as of the date
each repayment is made, such repayments to be made
at least semiannually;
(ii) ENDE shall pay to the Borrower a commitment charge
at the rate of three-quarters of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Such commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by ENDE from the Subsidiary Loan
or shall be cancelled. The commitment charge shall
be payable semiannually and shall be payable in
national currency, the rate of exchange between the
dollar and national currency to be determined as of
the date such payment is made;
(iii) such credit shall bear a fixed interest rate of
eight and one-half percent (8.5%) per annum on the
principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, or such other rate and on such other
terms as shall be acceptable to the Association;
(iv) such credit shall be repaid over a period of twenty
(20) years, including a grace period of up to four
(4) years; and
(v) the Borrower shall have the right to:
(a) inspect, by itself, or jointly with repre-
sentatives of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, if the Association shall so request, the
goods and works and services so financed, and
any relevant records and documents;


﻿- 21 -
(b)   obtain all such information as the Association or
the Borrower shall reasonably request regarding
the foregoing administration, operations and
financial condition of ENDE and the benefits to be
derived from the goods and services financed under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(c)   suspend or terminate the right of the ENDE to use
the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by ENDE to
perform its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
(vi) the Borrower shall cause the Central Bank of Bolivia to
take all measures necessary to facilitate the prompt
processing and payment from the Special Account and the
Credit Account, of expenditures to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


