Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14556
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
RECONSTRUCTION IMPORT CREDIT
(CREDITS 23520-SL, 23521, AND 23522-SL)
JUNE 2, 1995
Country Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(fiscal year average)
Currency Unit = Leone (Le)
1989/90   1990/91   1991/92   1992/93    1993/94
Exchange Rate (US$/Le)            97.65    199.03    424.02    539.20     575.00
Exchange Rate (Lc/USS)             0.01      0.005     0.002     0.002      0.002
ABBREVIATIONS AND P'RINCIPAL ACRONYMS
ADB             -       African Development Bank
AGD             -       Auditor General's Department
AGO             -       Accountant General's Office
BSL             -       Bank of Sierra Leone
CTB             -       Central Tender Board
DOF             -       Department of Finance
EC              -       European Communities
EIB             -       European Investment Bank
FMC             -       Fiscal Monitoring Committee
GDP             -       Gross Domestic Products
GVWC            -       Guma Valley Water Company
IIBRD           -       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB             -       International Competitive Bidding
IDA             -       International Development Association
IFAD            -       International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFC             -       International Finance Corporation
IMF             -       International Monetary Fund
MIGA            -       Multilateral Insurance Guarantee Agency
NDMC            -       National Diamond Mining Company
NEAP            -       National Environmental Action Plan
NGOs            -       Non-Governmental Organizations
NIC             -       National Insurance Company
NP              -       National Petroleum Company
NPA             -       National Power Authority
ODA             -       Overseas Development Administration
PER             -       Public Expenditure Review
PFP             -       Policy Framework Paper
PIP             -       Public Investment Program
PSMS            -       Public Sector Management Support Project
RAP             -       Rights Accumulation Program
RIC             -       Reconstruction Import Credit
SAPS            -       Structural Adjustment Program Steering Committee
SIEROMCO        -       Sierra Leone Ore and Metal Company Limited
SLPA            -       Sierra Leone Ports Authority
SLPMB           -       Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board
SLPRC           -       Sierra Leone Petroleum Refining Company
SPA             -       Special Program of Assistance
SLET            -       Sierra Leone External Telecommunication Company
SSI             -       Specialist Services International
UN              -       United Nations
UNCTC           -       United Nations Centre for Transnational Corporations
UNDP            -       United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF          -       United Nations Children's Fund
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 2, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Sierra Leone - Reconstruction
Import Credit (Credit 2352-SL)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on the Sierra Leone - Reconstruction Import Credit
(Credit 2352-SL), prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II prepared by the Borrower.
The original credit and first supplement were approved on April 14, 1992. The second
supplement was approved on December 23, 1992. The credit closed as planned on December 31, 1993.
The objectives of the project were: (i) improving fiscal management by strengthening
expenditure programming and control at key ministries; (ii) enhancing revenue collection by
strengthening major revenue departments; (iii) maximizing the contribution of public enterprises to the
budget through commercialization and divestiture; (iv) reforming the civil service; and rationalizing
petroleum product supply, pricing, and tax policies.
The project objectives were mostly met. In a number of areas, reforms went further than
originally envisaged. The impact of the project on institutional strengthening was substantial. A
substantial macroeconomic stabilization effort was complemented by reforms in fiscal management, the
civil service and the public enterprise sector. These reforms provided the anchor for a revival of
economic growth. The supply response to these measures was less than expected because of protracted
civil strife: real GDP grew by only 0.7 percent in 1992/93 - significantly less than the projected 4.2
percent.
Several lessons emerge from the implementation of the project; (i) macroeconomic stabilization,
especially fiscal stabilization provided a large pay-off in terms of setting the stage for the resumption
of sustainable growth in Sierra Leone, (ii) strengthened institutional capabilities at key points in the
administration very early in the life of the program, combined with diligent program supervision,
contributed to improved implementation, despite civil strife, (iii) good ex ante risk analysis of program
feasibility facilitated the appropriate timing and sequencing of policy reforms; and (iv) continuity in the
Bank's staff and intensive supervision were key factors in the success of the program.
The PCR is of good quality. Project outcome is rated as satisfactory, and sustainability is rated
as likely. Institutional development is rated as substantial. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
RECONSTRUCTION IMPORT CREDIT
(Credits 23520-SL, 23521-SL, AND 23522-SL)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface  .                   ...................................................  3
Evaluation  Summary   ............................................    5
PART I.  WORLD BANK REVIEW OF THE RECONSTRUCTION IMPORT
CREDIT           ..............................................                                                                      9
Credit Identity   ...........................................    9
Background ............................................. 9
The  Country    .......................................    9
The  Macroeconomy   ...................................    9
The Credit   .......................................                                                                   10
Credit Design    ..........................................                                                                        10
Implementation  Experience   ..................................                                                                    12
Macroeconomic  Performance   ............................                                                              13
Revenue  Management   ................................    13
Public  Expenditure and  Poverty  Alleviation   ...................    14
Civil Service  Reform    .................................                                                             15
Public  Enterprise  Reform                ..............................                                               15
Natural Resource  Management  ...........................                                                              17
Credit Supervision    .......................................                                                                      17
Monitoring    .......................................                                                                  17
Disbursements and  Procurement   ..........................    18
Reporting  and  Auditing    ...............................                                                            18
Program   Results and  Sustainability    .............................                                                             18
Results ..........................................  19
Sustainability   ......................................                                                                19
Bank  Performance  ........................................    21
Borrower Performance   .....................................    21
Lessons Learned ....................                                                  ................. 21
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....... 23
Introduction ............................................  23
Objectives .............................................  23
Implementation             .........................................                                                               23
Credit Amount, Tranching, and  Disbursement   ......................    24
Monitoring  of Program   .....................................                                                                     24
Achievements    ..........................................                                                                         25
Problems  in  Implementation  ..................................    25
Recommendations   ........................................                                                                         26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ............................  27
Related IDA Credits ................................ 27
Credit Position ...............................   27
Credit Timetable ...............................   28
Staff Input ................................   28
Mission Data ................................                               28
Summary of Disbursements ...............................    29
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Letter of Development Policy ..............................  31
Annex 2: Matrix of Policy Actions ...............................  37



PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
RECONSTRUCTION IMPORT CREDIT
(Credits 23520-SL, 23521-SL, AND 23522-SL)
Preface
1.    The Reconstruction Import Credit (RIC) of the International Development Association
(IDA) to the Republic of Sierra Leone supported the Government of Sierra Leone's structural
adjustment program (described in Annex 1). An original credit (23520-SL) of SDR 31.4 million
(US$43.1 million equivalent) and a first supplement (23521-SL) of SDR 0.22 million
(US$0.30 million equivalent) were followed by a second supplement (23522-SL) of
SDR 0.22 million (US$0.30 million equivalent), for atotal of SDR 31.8 million (US$43.7 million
equivalent). The RIC and the first supplement were approved on April 14, 1992, and signed and
declared effective on April 15, 1992. The second supplement was approved on December 23,
1992, and signed on March 10, 1993, and it became effective on May 26, 1993. The credit
closed, as planned, in December 1993.
2.    The main credit was on standard IDA terms for US$43.1 million, which included
US$13.4 million to retire a bridge loan used to clear IBRD and IDA arrears. Sierra Leone had
been in non-accrual status since 1987, and the clearance of arrears to the Bank was a condition
of the signing of the credit. The credit was disbursed in three tranches over 20 months.
Retroactive financing equivalent to US$17.4 million was required to retire the bridge loan and
to help close the financing gap in 1992.
3.    The Government's program was cofinanced by the African Development Bank (AfDB),
the EU, and bilateral donors (Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States).
4.    This program completion report (PCR) was prepared jointly by the Country Operations
Division, Western Africa Department, Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and
III, Annexes), and the Borrower (Part II).
5.    The PCR is based, among other sources, on the initiating memorandum, the President's
report on the main credit, the President's reports on the release of the second and third tranches,
the Development Credit Agreement, the country economic memorandum, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and other internal Bank documents.






PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
RECONSTRUCTION IMPORT CREDIT
(Credits 23520-SL, 23521-SL, and 23522-SL)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    The Government of Sierra Leone began implementing significant reforms in 1989,
including liberalization of the exchange rate and trade, removal of price and interest rate controls,
and strengthening of revenue collection and expenditure control. The Reconstruction Import
Credit (RIC), approved by the Executive Directors in April 1992, focused on supporting the
Government's efforts to maintain and strengthen these policies. The RIC was an integral part of
the World Bank's 1/ assistance strategy to Sierra Leone. It financed imports that helped reverse
the economy's decline. It was the vehicle for getting Sierra Leone out of nonaccrual status with
the Bank. It helped to retire the bridge loan that cleared the arrears to the Bank, contributed to
closing the financing gap in 1992, and stimulated donor support.
Objectives
2.    The RIC focused on supporting improvements to fiscal management effected by
improving expenditure programming and control at key ministries; enhancing revenue collection
by strengthening major revenue departments; maximizing the contribution of public enterprises
to the budget through commercialization and divestiture; reforming the civil service; and
rationalizing petroleum product supply, pricing, and tax policies.
3.    The credit financed imports of petroleum  products, currency notes, essential raw
materials, and spare parts. These imports, together with imports of rice (financed in part by other
donors and by the private sector), were expected to help restore public confidence in the economy
and thus accelerate economic stabilization.
4.    A Public Sector Management Support (PSMS) project, approved by the Executive Board
in November 1992, was designed to support implementation of the program through technical
assistance to strengthen fiscal management in key ministries and departments. This assistance
was considered vital to the program's implementation.
Implementation Experience
5.    Overall implementation of the RIC was satisfactory. In the face of substantial delays in
donor funding, the RIC provided vital resources for financing essential imports as well as for
budgetary expenditures. By doing so, it helped generate political support and public confidence
in the program and contributed to its sustainability. The release of both the second and the third
1/   lThe World Bank is also called the Bank and IDA in this report.



- 6 -
tranches was delayed by a few months. The release of the second tranche was postponed from
August 1992 to December 1992 as a result of a change in Government that slowed the
implementation of major structural policy conditions. When the second tranche was released, 21
of the 23 conditions for release had been fully met; the remaining two conditions (relating to
divestiture of the refinery and management of fisheries resources) had been materially met; these
conditions were subsequently met. Also, social sector spending was below designated levels;
although this was not a specific condition of tranche release, subsequently the Government
increased spending in this area. Of 13 conditions for release of the third tranche, 12 were met
fully and the last was deemed inapplicable after the Bank and the IMF reassessed its
appropriateness. The credit closed, as planned, at the end of 1993.
6.     At the outset, it was recognized that the program faced risks associated with political
instability, adverse security conditions, weak implementation capacity, and insufficient donor
funding. Two weeks after the Board's approval of the operation a military Government took
office. The change in Government clearly added to the risks of the operation as its ownership
could no longer be taken for granted. Intensive staff supervision was required to familiarize the
new economic management team with the adjustment program and with Bank operations and
procurement procedures, and the transition did delay some aspects of implementation. But the
new Government, the National Provisional Ruling Council (NPRC), declared its commitment to
the program, ensuring the implementation of the reform measures.
Results
7.     Despite the political transition and ongoing rebel activities in the Eastern and Southern
Provinces, progress under the program was good. On the macroeconomic front, the overall
budget deficit (excluding grants) was reduced from 10.2 percent of GDP to 6.7 percent of GDP
between 1990/91 and 1992/93, surpassing the RIC target of 7.3 percent. Over the same period,
growth in the money supply slowed from about 140 percent a year to about 35 percent a year.
Inflation was brought down from more than 100 percent in 1990/91 to 34.2 percent in 1992/93,
compared with a forecast of 37.1 percent. Interest rates have been positive in real terms since
June 1992. The difference between commercial bank and parallel market exchange rates has
virtually disappeared. However, after a sharp depreciation in 1990 and 1991, the real effective
exchange rate appreciated by about 24 percent over the period.
8.     The RIC structural targets also were met. Prices and trading activities were liberalized,
and the state marketing company's monopoly on coffee and cocoa exports was abolished. Fiscal
management was strengthened. The civil service was reduced by about 38 percent, and the
difference in relative pay (between the lowest and highest paid workers) was increased by more
than 50 percent. The public enterprise sector has become more efficient and now contributes
significantly to public revenues.
9.     The supply response of the real economy fell far short of expectations. Real GDP grew
by only 0.7 percent in 1992/93 -significantly less than the projected 4.2 percent- primarily
because of continued rebel activity.  Even now, as the reform  process puts an incentive
framework in place, the supply response is not forthcoming. Real GDP is expected to grow by
only 3 percent in 1993/94; the increase reflects a favorable outlook for agriculture due to good
rains, and improvement in utilities and Government services.



-7 -
Sustainability
10.   The RIC has been followed by a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) designed to support
the continuation of measures aimed at maintaining macroeconomic stability, generating a
sustained supply response, and reducing poverty.
11.    Maintaining strict fiscal discipline remains the key to success in stabilizing the economy.
Several measures were taken under the RIC to strengthen institutions and to ensure fiscal
discipline. During preparation of the RIC the Fiscal Monitoring Committee (FMC) was
established, with a broad membership drawn from various spending departments, to improve
control of expenditures.  The committee is now fully integrated into the Government's
administrative machinery. In November 1990 a Structural Adjustment Program Steering (SAPS)
committee, chaired by the Minister of Finance, was established to review progress under the
adjustment program. This committee, which serves as a forum for cabinet members to voice
concerns and to debate policy and implementation issues, has been instrumental in extending
ownership of the program beyond the Department of Finance. Expenditure planning, budgeting,
monitoring, and control were strengthened in five key departments, as well as in the Auditor
General's Department and the Accountant General's Department.   Among institution-
strengthening measures, the Sierra Leone Export Development and Investment Corporation
(SLEDIC) was established by decree to promote investment in all sectors, and civil service
reform was undertaken, spearheaded by the Cabinet Sub-Committee on Civil Service Reform.
12.   To ensure sustainability, important reforms have been locked in. The Development of
Industries Act was repealed in November 1993 to eliminate unnecessary and costly tax incentives.
Public enterprises were privatized, liquidated, or restructured by the Public Enterprise Reform
and Divestiture Commission (PERDIC).
Lessons Learned
13.   The several years' hiatus in Bank operations in Sierra Leone had left Government officials
unfamiliar with Bank procedures, and, as a result, the start-up cost of the program was high and
supervision had to be intensive. In light of the Government's limited experience in implementing
adjustment operations, the number of policy conditions attached to the tranche releases was
excessive. The Government's scarce implementation capacity was further stretched when it had
to implement adjustment operations supported by other donors, often with different procurement
and disbursement procedures. Yet, it was important for the Government to establish credibility
with donors by implementing a far-reaching adjustment program, especially given its dismal
record in implementing earlier adjustment operations.
14.   Country risks were also a concern. The security and political situation was fluid, which
meant that it was critical to keep the support of key groups and individuals to ensure the survival
and sustainability of the program's core measures. Meanwhile, the Government had poor
credibility on policy implementation and a history of fiscal indiscipline. The Bank balanced these
risks by insisting on full implementation of fiscal reform measures while displaying flexibility in
the area of public enterprise reform after the Government had made its best efforts to implement
the full program. Furthermore, the policy and structural reform package was front-loaded, even
as the financing plan was kept flexible.



15.   With the change in Government in April 1992, ownership of the reform program could
not be taken for granted. But because of the disastrous state of the economy and the perception
that the program would improve the economic situation, there was widespread commitment to
the program, not only in the new Government, but also among many stakeholders who would
bear the main costs of the reforms. The experience with the RIC showed that efforts to generate
Government and national ownership of structural reforms are best started early in the design
stage. The establishment of the SAPS committee helped ensure that the sense of ownership
spread throughout the Government, which proved important in reaching consensus among the
departments involved in the design and implementation of policy actions and in ensuring
sustainability. To further improve program sustainability, the Bank should continue to encourage
broad public participation in program design.
16.   Also key in the success of the program's implementation was the continuity of task
managers and staff associated with the program-and the very intensive supervision of the
program-especially because of the many changes in personnel on the Borrower's side.



- 9 -
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
RECONSTRUCTION IMPORT CREDIT
(Credits 23520-SL, 23521-SL, and 23522-SL)
PART I. WORLD BANK REVIEW OF THE RECONSTRUCTION IMPORT CREDIT
Credit Identity
Credit Name:        Reconstruction Import Credit
Credit Number:      23520-SL, 23521-SL, 23522-SL
RVP Unit:           Africa Region (AF4CO)
Country:            Sierra Leone
Sector:             Macroeconomic
Background
7he Country
1.    Sierra Leone is endowed with substantial mineral wealth, varied agricultural land, and
rich fisheries. Agriculture employs most of the population in low-productivity, labor-intensive
farming. The mining sector comprises a capital-intensive enclave and substantial small-scale
alluvial operations. Classified by the UN as a "least developed" country, Sierra Leone has a
population of 4.4 million, growing at 2.6 percent a year, and annual per capita income of
US$170 (1992). More than two-thirds of the population live in absolute poverty.
7he Macroeconomy
2.    During the 1960s the economy grew by nearly 4 percent a year. The fiscal and foreign
exchange position was healthy and inflation low. But during the 1970s and 1980s the economic
situation deteriorated. Budgetary revenues fell sharply. Declines in imports and official diamond
sales reduced the tax base, and increasing indiscipline in public sector management eroded the
efficiency of tax collection. Large cuts in capital expenditures followed, and public sector
facilities deteriorated. Inflation accelerated, peaking at close to 170 percent in 1986187. The
civil service became demoralized as real wages eroded. Official exports of diamonds, gold,
cocoa, and coffee fell sharply as these commodities increasingly were traded in the parallel
market. During this period Sierra Leone flirted with reform, but, unable to sustain the necessary
commitment, it aborted an IMF program and in 1987 fell into nonaccrual status with the Fund,
the Bank, and the AfDB.
3.    Faced with an increasingly desperate economic situation -in which the central bank
lacked the wherewithal even to purchase the paper needed for printing new currency notes- the
Government began in early 1989 to implement reform measures aimed at stabilizing the economy.
These measures included exchange rate and trade liberalization, the removal of price and



- 10 -
monetary controls, and the strengthening of revenue collection and expenditure control. As a
result of the reforms, the overall fiscal deficit was reduced from 12.0 percent of GDP in 1989/90
(July-June) to 9.3 percent of GDP in 1991/92. Money supply growth was sharply reduced, and
inflation declined from a peak of 119 percent in November 1991 (on an end-of-period basis) to
35 percent at the end of 1992. Nominal interest rates declined with inflation, but real rates have
been positive since mid-1992. The nominal exchange rate was relatively stable, (but appreciated
in real terms by about 24 percent) and the differential between the commercial bank and the
parallel market exchange rates virtually disappeared. The availability of basic products, including
petroleum and rice, improved. The civil service was reduced by one-third, and differences in
relative pay were widened. The public enterprise sector became more efficient and began
contributing to public revenues.
4.    Despite the gains in stabilizing the economy and implementing structural reforms,
economic activity remained sluggish, largely because of the impact of the rebel conflict on mining
and agriculture. Real GDP declined by 4.5 percent in 1991/92. Moreover, few inroads had been
made in addressing Sierra Leone's pressing social problems.
The Credit
5.    The RIC was designed to support the Government's stabilization and adjustment effort.
The Bank's assistance strategy called for resuming existing operations and initiating new lending
after the Fund Board approved a rights accumulation program (RAP) and the Government cleared
its arrears to the Bank and mobilizing international financial support for Sierra Leone (by, among
other things, proposing Sierra Leone for support from the Special Program of Assistance).
6.    After implementing reforms aimed at economic recovery and reestablishing relationships
with international financial institutions, the Government entered into active discussions with the
Bank and the Fund in December 1989. The Government's medium-term adjustment program was
outlined in a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) and approved by the IMF Board and the Committee
of the Whole of the Bank in August 1990. The Government cleared its arrears to the African
Development Bank (AfDB) in December 1990 and resumed debt service payments to the Bank
in January 1991. It negotiated a RAP with the IMF and signed the Letter of Intent on February
28, 1992. In April 1992 the Fund Board approved the RAP, which covered a 24-month period
ending February 28, 1994.
7.    The RIC was prepared in parallel with the Fund RAP in the context of two preappraisal
missions in September and November 1991. The RIC's appraisal was carried out in February
1992, followed by a donors' meeting to secure financing for the first year of the program.
Negotiations were held in early March, 1992. The RIC was approved by the Executive Directors
on April 14, 1992, and became effective on April 15, 1992.
Credit Design
8.    The RIC was designed to help the country break a long trend of rapid decline in living
standards and return the economy to a path of recovery. The credit was also intended to help
change the way the economy operates by supporting reforms to liberalize trade and exchange
systems, strengthen fiscal management, and substantially reduce the Government's role in the
public sector and shift the public enterprise sector to commercial principles. The funding was
aimed at benefiting Sierra Leone by contributing significantly toward closing the external
financing gap, particularly in the first year of the program; acting as a catalyst for contributions



- 11 -
to the financing plan from other donors; contributing to economic recovery and growth by
providing foreign exchange for essential imports; and financing priority public expenditures.
9.    To help strengthen fiscal management, the program focused on:
*     Improving expenditure programming and control at key ministries.
*     Enhancing revenue collections by strengthening major revenue departments.
*     Maximizing the contribution of public enterprises to the budget through
commercialization and divestiture.
*     Reforming the civil service.
*     Rationalizing petroleum product supply, pricing, and tax policies. The RIC
financed imports of petroleum products, currency notes, and essential raw
materials and spare parts that would have a significant stabilizing effect on the
economy and the budget.
10.   Conditions for effectiveness had already been met when the loan was approved. For
release of the second tranche, the conditions were as follows (see Annex II for more detail on
these conditions and on those for release of the third tranche):
*     Macroeconomic DolicY:  maintaining existing macroeconomic and sectoral
policies throughout the program period.
*     Expenditure control: (i) agreeing with the Bank on the composition of revenues
and expenditures for the 1991/92 and 1992/93 budgets and the 1992/93-1994/95
PIP; (ii) strengthening expenditure budgeting and control systems in key areas;
(iii) strengthening the Auditor General's Department (AGD); and (iv) completing
the rescheduling of outstanding domestic claims on Government and not
contracting new, nonconcessional debt without consulting the Bank.
*     Revenue enhancement: (i) introducing legislation to permit the Income Tax
Department to conduct field audits; (ii) implementing the recommendations of a
tax administration expert from the Overseas Development Administration (ODA)
on streamlining the Income Tax Department; (iii) reviewing the statutory import
duty exemptions; (iv) extending preshipment inspection to all imports and
exports; (v) renegotiating the agreement with the bauxite mining company, Sierra
Leone Ore and Metal Company Limited (SIEROMCO); and (vi) restructuring the
joint-venture contract for marine protection services.
*     Civil service reform:  (i) reducing the net number of daily workers, and
temporary and pensionable staff by 10,000 in 1991/92; (ii) making satisfactory
progress in the census of schools and teachers; (iii) limiting new recruitment to
essential positions; and (iv) agreeing with the Bank on the 1992/93 salary
structure.
*     Public enterprise rform: (i) eliminating all subsidies to the National Diamond
Mining Company (NDMC); (ii) establishing the capacity of the Department of
Finance (DOF) to monitor key public enterprises; (iii) reviewing the management
contract for the Sierra Leone Ports Authority (SLPA); and (iv) completing the
sale of the Govermnent's share in Sierra Leone Petroleum Refining Company
(SLPRC).



- 12 -
*     Petroleum sector: (i) reviewing the pricing formula; and (ii) using the revised
pricing formula, adjusting the pump prices for petroleum products.
*     PovertM alleviation: (i) agreeing with the World Bank, in the context of the
Public Expenditure Review (PER) exercise, on the size and composition of the
social sectors' allocation in the 1992/93 budget; and (ii) providing special
budgetary allocations in the 1992/93 budget for social programs.
The conditions for release of the third tranche were as follows:
*     Macroeconomic policy: maintaining the existing macroeconomic policy reforms.
*     Expenditure control: maintaining existing reforms.
*     Revenue enhancement: (i) reviewing and revising the tariff structure and the
Development of Industries Act of 1983; (ii) simplifying the tax structure;
(iii) submitting  consolidated  income  tax  legislation  to  Parliament;
(iv) implementing the recommendations of an ODA report to streamline the
Customs and Excise Department; (v) lifting the duty suspension on rice imports;
(vi) maintaining a mining production and export policy acceptable to the Bank;
and (vii) reviewing the mining investment taxation and incentive policies.
*     Civil service reform: (i) completing the job inspection and functional review of
key ministries; and (ii) completing the census of schools and teachers and
eliminating ghost teachers identified by the census.
*     Public enterprise reform: (i) establishing accurate up-to-date accounts for Guma
Valley water Company (GVWC), National Power Authority (NPA), Sierra Leone
External Telecommunication Company (SLET), Sierra Leone Produce Marketing
Board (SLPMB), and Bank of Sierra Leone (BSL); (ii) entering into performance
contracts with key public enterprises; (iii) taking all necessary actions to divest
the Government's shares in the National Petroleum Company (NP) and National
Insurance Company (NIC); (iv) liquidating the NDMC; and (v) agreeing with the
Bank on a work program to regulate the operations of GVWC, NPA, SLET,
SLNTC, and SLPA.
*     Petroleum sector: adjusting the pump prices for petroleum products using the
pricing formula agreed on with the Bank.
Implementation Experience
11.   The implementation of the RIC was on the whole satisfactory. Policies were implemented
and actions taken as agreed. In the face of substantial delays in the availability of donor funding,
the RIC provided vital resources for financing essential imports and budgetary expenditures, and,
in doing so, contributed to the sustainability of the program and generated political support and
public confidence. The second and third tranches (US$8 million each) were released within a
year of effectiveness, although there were delays. The second tranche release was postponed
from August 1992 to December 1992 because of a change in Government that interrupted
progress toward meeting major structural policy conditions. When the second tranche was
released, 21 of the 23 release conditions had been fully met and 2 conditions relating to
divestiture of the refinery and management of fisheries resources had been materially met. Also,



- 13 -
social sector spending was below designated levels. These conditions were subsequently met. Of
the 13 conditions for release of the third tranche, 12 were fully met and the last was deemed
inapplicablel/. The credit closed, as planned, at the end of 1993.
Macroeconomic Performance
12.   The implementation of macroeconomic policies was particularly impressive. Between
1990/91 and 1992/93 total revenues rose as a percentage of GDP, and recurrent expenditures
declined as a percentage of GDP. The overall budget deficit contracted, leading to a decline in
the rate of growth of broad money, and thus inflation, over this period. The differential between
commercial bank and parallel market exchange rates virtually disappeared, and the exchange rate
remained relatively stable. The external current account balance as a share of GDP contracted
sharply. Since mid-1992 the real interest rate has remained positive and capital flight has been
reduced.
13.   There were also problems in meeting the program's targets, however. Continued rebel
activity, unforeseen during the design of the program, adversely affected economic growth.
Export growth, investment levels, and overall economic growth all fell short of expectations, in
large part because of rebel activity in the mining and cash crop areas of the country. The
security situation also affected investor confidence.
Revenue Management
14.   The Government reduced the number of tariff rates from  19 to 7 in June 1992, and
lowered the highest tariff rate from  100 percent to 65 percent of the c.i.f. price.  A
comprehensive review of customs and excise taxes and of the Development of Industries Act of
1983 (the Investment Code) was completed in November 1992. The 1993/94 budget incorporated
the review's recommendations, including a further reduction in the number of duty rates from
7 to 3, a reduction in the highest tariff rate, and incorporation of the incentive framework for
foreign investment in the revised income tax and tariff systems. All ad hoc duty exemptions were
removed.
15.   To increase tax revenue and make up for the shortfall in revenue in 1992, the
Government raised the excise tax on petroleum products by a weighted average of 42 percent,
effective March 5, 1993.  This one-time adjustment in the excise tax, which increased the
gasoline pump price to an equivalent of US$2/per imperial gallon, ensured that fiscal targets for
the rest of that fiscal year would be met. Since the program started, pump prices have been
adjusted regularly, using an agreed on pricing formula, to reflect changes in exchange rates and
world market prices.
16.   As agreed under the RIC, on April 1, 1993, the Government resumed the 10 percent
import duty on rice that had been in effect before the liberalization of rice imports in 1989. The
duty had been temporarily suspended to encourage private importers to use their own foreign
exchange to import rice. On July 1, 1993, the import duty on rice was raised to 15 percent.
17.   The Government also simplified the income tax system. Although the preparatory work
for consolidation of the income tax law had been completed as scheduled, the consolidation bill
1/Because of intervening changes in the Bank's and the IMF's assessment of the appropriateness of immediate changes in the tax
code.



- 14 -
was not submitted to Parliament for ratification as agreed to under the RIC. An intervening
review by the IMF of Sierra Leone's income tax system had found that it would be pointless to
press ahead with the consolidation because it failed to address the system's main weaknesses.
The review recommended a larger effort to completely overhaul and modernize the system,
including replacing the present income tax law with a new law. The modernization task was
expected to take some time; it is now scheduled for completion by mid-1994 with assistance from
the IMF. As a result of the IMF review, the condition for release of the third tranche requiring
submission of consolidated income tax legislation was deemed no longer applicable.
Public Expenditure and Poverty Alleviation
Allocations and Control of Expenditure
18.   To provide a comprehensive framework for managing public finances, a Fiscal
Monitoring Committee (FMC) was established during the preparatory stages of the RIC and
Parliament ratified a new Public Budgeting and Accounting Act in early 1992. The Act requires
that all loan agreements be approved and signed by the Secretary of State for Finance.
Furthermore, at the beginning of each fiscal year the Government agrees with the Bank and the
Fund on the Bank of Sierra Leone's foreign exchange budget, including debt service payments.
Together, these mechanisms enhance transparency of contracting fresh debts. The Goverrunent
has contracted no nonconcessional debt since the beginning of the program, however.
19.   To free the operations of the Central Tender Board (CTB) from political interference, the
CTB was reorganized into a purely technical body responsible for scrutinizing and approving all
Government contracts.  The Contract Monitoring Committee monitors implementation of
Government contracts, however.
20.   Some conditions of tranche release focused on expenditure allocation and on strengthening
expenditure control.  A public expenditure review (PER) mission with substantial donor
participation agreed with the Government in June 1992 on the level and composition of recurrent
and development expenditures. The mission and the Government also agreed on a three-year
public investment program (PIP) for 1992/93-1994/95.
21.   The Public Sector Management Support (PSMS) project includes substantial technical
support to the Accountant General's Office and the Auditor General's Department as well as to
the Departments of Agriculture, Works, Health, and Education. A technical assistance team from
a reputable consulting firm was installed in key ministries in early 1993. The Government also
took the necessary steps to upgrade the budgeting and control of expenditures in key line
ministries. Qualified accountants and a treasury representative were assigned to each of these
ministries. Ministerial representatives are required to attend the Fiscal Monitoring Committee
meetings to ensure their commitment to staying within the approved allocations.
Poverty Alleviation
22.   Economic growth is a necessary condition for sustained poverty reduction, but improved
human capital development is also essential. Under the program, budgetary allocations for health
and education were increased and a compensation package was developed for voluntarily
separated and retrenched daily workers and temporary staff in those sectors. In the Department
of Finance, Development and Economic Planning, Social Action and Poverty Alleviation Unit
(SAPAU) was established that determines priorities and assists in formulating appropriate
programs. Programs to protect the poor during the transition process are being developed in



- 15 -
consultation with other donors, including UNICEF, the EU, and the AfDB, and with the NGOs
active in Sierra Leone. The programs will be implemented by the NGOs.
23.   To meet longer-term goals and pursuant to tranche release conditions, the three-year
public investment program for 1992/93-1994/95 has a strong social sector orientation. The
program includes a sizable allocation for the social sectors and focuses on primary education and
health. The 1992/93 budget contained additional allocations to finance expenditures on health,
education, and social welfare and to support people affected by the rebel war in the Eastern and
Southern Provinces. The 1992/93 budget also provided for a compensation package for retrenched
workers.
24.   Although budgetary allocations for the social sectors were in step with the tranche release
conditions, actual expenditures were not always.  In the first quarter of fiscal 1992/93,
expenditures were skewed in favor of general services (mainly foreign travel), defense,
remittances to foreign embassies, and the war effort. Social sector expenditures were below
designated levels, and the tranche release was delayed in part for that reason. Later, social sector
expenditures were proportionately increased, and for the year as a whole targets expressed as a
percentage of GDP were met.  But because GDP was well below expectations, actual
expenditures on social sectors still fell far short of the original allocations.
Civil Service Reform
25.   In accord with tranche release conditions requiring a functional review of key ministries,
the Government, with assistance from international consultants financed by the PSMS program,
completed job inspections and functional reviews for the Department of Works, the Department
of Finance, and the Department of Development and Economic Planning. The reviews revealed
substantial overstaffing at lower levels of service and recommended a reduction in staff.
26.   Tranche release conditions also required a reduction in the number of workers, as well
as the adoption of a new civil service salary structure. The Government made satisfactory
progress in this area. Four thousand daily workers and civil servants left the service between
July and December 1992, raising the total number of retrenched workers to about 15,000. About
2,000 ghost teachers and other personnel identified in the education census review in November
1992 were removed from the Government payroll before March 1993. The 1992/93 salary
structure increased the difference between the salaries of the highest-paid and the lowest-paid civil
servants by 50 percent, from a ratio of 3.1 in 1991/92 to 4.5 in 1992/93 (net of taxes but
including allowances).
Public Enterprise Reform
27.     The Government stepped up the implementation of the public enterprise reform program
agreed to under the RIC. An independent Public Enterprise Reform and Divestiture Commission
(PERDIC) was set up under the credit. PERDIC, headed and assisted by two professional Sierra
Leoneans returning from abroad, reports to the Council of Secretaries of States for Public
Enterprise Reform, which is chaired by the Secretary of State for Finance.
28.   Under the RIC, the Government agreed to establish accurate and up-to-date accounts for
the Guma Valley Water Company (GVWC), the Sierra Leone External Telecommunication
Company (SLET), the Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board (SLPMB), and the Bank of Sierra
Leone (BSL). Substantial progress was made: the financial statements of the GVWC for the
financial year ending October 31, 1991, were completed and properly audited; financial



- 16 -
statements for SLET for the year ending March 31, 1992, were completed and properly audited;
and the audited accounts for the BSL for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1992, were finalized in
late 1992. The accounts for the National Power Authority (NPA) for the fiscal year ending
March 1992 were also completed and audited. The SLPMB was closed in June 1992; thus, the
audited accounts for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1991, were the most recent available. A
caretaker board was appointed to settle outstanding payments to staff and to restructure the
SLPMB.
29.   The negotiations of performance contracts governing the operations of the GVWC, the
Sierra Leone Ports Authority (SLPA), the Road Transport Corporation, and the Sierra Leone
National Telecommunications Company were completed as planned. The performance contract
for SLPA, formulated as a management contract, was renegotiated at significant savings in March
1993 and awarded to an international consulting firm.
30.   For the second tranche release, the Government had agreed to divest its shares in the
SLPRC. Although the Government had not met this condition fully at the time of the review,
the condition was deemed to have been materially met by the steps that the Government had
taken. The Government had valued the physical assets of the company; it had offered its shares
for sale to other shareholders in the company, although the offer was declined; and it had
proposed a voluntary liquidation of the company, a proposal that the other shareholders also
declined.  However, before the third tranche release, the Supreme Council approved an
involuntary liquidation of the company, and the High Court of Sierra Leone endorsed the
liquidation and appointed a receiver. A liquidator appointed for the company tendered its assets
in accord with International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, setting a minimum price of
US$700,000.  The liquidator, with assistance from  an international consulting firm, has
completed the valuation of the seven offers received. A bid for a substantially higher price than
that set in the tender has been selected and recommended to the High Court for its consideration.
31.   Under the program, the Government had also agreed to take all actions necessary to
divest its shares in the National Insurance Company (NIC) and the National Petroleum Company
(NP). The assets of both companies were valued and the initial steps taken toward privatization.
The sale of the NIC's stocks to private individuals and corporations, a transaction that had to be
effected through commercial banks, was hampered, however, by the provisions of the Banking
Act. Although the Governrnent introduced legislation to address this shortcoming, the depressed
market prevented the sale of the NIC's assets. The privatization is now being completed under
the follow-up Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC).
32.   Market research revealed that the value of the Government's shares in the NP would have
been enhanced considerably if the SLPRC and the NP were offered for sale as a package. But
the Articles of the NP require the Government to offer its shares to the other shareholders, who
have the first right of refusal. The only other shareholder, the Precious Metals Marketing
Corporation, expressed interest in purchasing the Government's shares at a set minimum price
of US$1.32 million, but withdrew its offer before finalizing the sales agreement.  The
Government is now tendering its shares in accord with International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures.
33.   The Council of the Secretaries of State approved, on December 22, 1992, the liquidation
and sale of assets of the wholly Government-owned National Diamond Mining Company
(NDMC). The Attorney General initiated the process by filing a petition with the Superior Court
requesting a motion to liquidate the NDMC. The receiver appointed has commenced the



- 17 -
liquidation by holding a meeting of all auditors and divesting some of the Company's movable
assets.
34.   The Government also took steps to shift to the private sector the responsibility for
providing some services. It established a semiautonomous Road Authority to manage the entire
periodic and routine road maintenance program through contracting to the private sector over the
next two years. The Authority will require only about 10 percent of the current work force of
the Department of Works for its operation. The Government has also transferred increasing
responsibility for primary health care to NGOs, private clinics and religious organizations, and
responsibility for managing elementary schools to local communities and other organizations.
Natural Resource Management
35.   Sierra Leone has made considerable progress in managing its natural resources more
efficiently and in conducting negotiations with foreign companies more transparently. With the
assistance of the United Nations Center for Transnational Corporations (UNCTC), the
Government renegotiated its mining agreement with the Sierra Rutile Company; the new
agreement provides for higher royalties, fees, and tax payments in foreign exchange.
Negotiations of the agreement with Sierra Leone Ore and Metal Company Limited (SIEROMCO),
the bauxite mining company, followed in April 1992. The new agreement was ratified by the
Supreme Council of the NPRC Government in August 1992, subject to minor modifications
agreed to by SIEROMCO in late October 1992.
36.   The Government had entered into a joint venture agreement-Marine Protection Services
Sierra Leone Limited (MPSSL)-with a private, UK-based company in November 1990. The
aim was to prevent illegal fishing in Sierra Leone waters, protect artisanal fishing, and conserve
marine resources. The revenue sharing and operations of the joint venture needed improvement
to ensure an equitable return to the Government, which agreed to restructure the capital base and
reorganize the operations of MPSSL before release of the second tranche. This condition was
not fully met: the renegotiation of the agreement was not completed within the designated
timeframe, in part because the condition gave the private company a stronger negotiating position
than the Government had. Once the condition was relaxed, the renegotiation was completed in
April 1993 and a revised agreement was signed that provided a more favorable revenue-sharing
arrangement for the Government. But, the company's performance under the revised contract
was disappointing, and the Government abrogated the contract in November 1993. The Sierra
Leone Navy has assumed responsibility for surveillance until a revised legal and regulatory
framework is in place that provides a more conducive environment for private sector monitoring,
control, and surveillance of fishing activities. An international private firm will then be selected
on a competitive basis.
Credit Supervision
Monitoring
37.   To ensure timely implementation of policy conditions, the program was intensively
supervised through frequent field visits as well as exchange of documentation and visits to World
Bank headquarters by Government delegations. The implementation of agreed on policies was
also monitored on a quarterly basis by the SAPS committee, which, in turn, regularly reported
to the IDA on the performance of the economy.



- 18 -
38.   The Government established a disbursement unit, the Structural Adjustment Program
Disbursement Unit (SAPDU), to oversee procurement and disbursement under the program. This
unit was headed by a specialist with experience in other Sub-Saharan countries and staffed by
trained employees of the Bank of Sierra Leone. The Government also established a Petroleum
Monitoring Unit in the Department of Trade and Industries to coordinate and monitor the
procurement, sales, and distribution of petroleum products, and a Technical Committee, headed
by the Financial Secretary, to review the flow of goods and resolve competing claims and
procedural issues.
Disbursements and Procurement
39.   The RIC was fully disbursed by the end of December 1993. But part of the counterpart
leone portion of the disbursed amount, used to procure petroleum products, was held back in
stock. This share was to be accounted for when the petroleum was sold, and that has since been
done. Of the credit amount available to finance fresh disbursements (US$26.3 million), US$19.1
million was used to finance petroleum product imports under a term supply contract awarded
following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Another US$5.1 million was
disbursed to finance two contracts for the printing and supply of bank notes. The first, an old
sole-source contract, was renegotiated by the Government to bring the cost in line with
internationally competitive prices; the Government succeeded in reducing the cost by 20 percent,
to US$3.9 million. The second contract (for US$1.2 million) was awarded under selected
competitive bidding for the printing and supply of new Le 1,000 and Le 5,000 bank notes; the
price for this contract was about 50 percent lower than any previous contract price. The
remaining funds (US$2.1 million) were used to finance imports of raw materials and spare parts,
at costs below the Limited Competitive Bidding (LCB) threshold.
Reporting and Auditing
40.   The Credit Agreement stated that the financial reports prepared by the Project Unit would
be independently audited each fiscal year in accordance with the International Standards on
Auditing. In addition to the annual audit of the financial reports of the credit, the agreement
required yearly audits of state-owned enterprises, to be submitted as a basis for withdrawal
applications. It also required an auditor's opinion on the compliance between the borrower and
the executing agency. The Bank received the audit reports for fiscal 1991/92 four months after
the due date of October 30, 1992, mainly because the local auditing firm after many years of
Bank inactivity in the country, was unfamiliar with Bank procedures. Although the Bank
considered the report acceptable, it noted the delay. The auditors recommended strengthening
the petroleum stock verification and reconciliation procedures; this recommendation has since
been carried out. The audit reports for fiscal 1992/93, due on of October 30, 1993, were also
delayed by about six months, mainly because of the delay in completing the first year's audits,
and also because the auditors had not personally taken stock of petroleum products at the end of
1992/93 and had difficulty accepting the numbers produced by the Petroleum Unit. The IDA
received the final audit reports for the period ending December 30, 1993 (the credit closing date),
in May 1994 (one month late) and found them fully satisfactory.
Program Results and Sustainability
41.   Despite the change in Government shortly after the RIC and the RAP were approved, and
the three-year old security problem, the program achieved significant results, with particularly
remarkable achievements on the macroeconomic front. Progress on structural reform has also
been satisfactory.  The availability of essential products improved substantially under the



- 19 -
liberalized trade and pricing policies. The civil service and the public enterprise sector became
smaller and more efficient. The management of Sierra Leone's natural resources improved
significantly under renegotiated agreements with large mining and fisheries-surveillance
companies. The liberalization of prices and trade resulted in moderate increases in cash crop
farmers' incomes. Continued rebel activity, however, kept overall growth low.
Results
42.    On the macroeconomic front, the overall budget deficit contracted to 6.7 percent of
GDP in 1992/93, compared with the program target of 7.3 percent (table 1). As a result, the
growth rate of broad money, and thus inflation, decelerated. The RIC target for inflation in
1992/93 had been 37.1 percent; this target was comfortably achieved -and exceeded- with
inflation falling to 34.2 percent in that year. The real interest rate remained positive, and
capital flight was reduced.
43.   The exchange rate remained relatively stable, and the difference between the
commercial bank and parallel market exchange rates virtually disappeared. The external
current account deficit contracted to 17.4 percent of GDP in 1992/93, just short of the target
of 17.2 percent. During 1992-93 Sierra Leone increased its net international reserves, despite
weak international market conditions for key exports.
44.    Economic activity continued to be sluggish, however, partly because of the ongoing
rebel conflict and partly due to the wait-and-see attitude of investors to the policy changes.
To some extent also, growth targets seemed ambitious. Although economic growth recovered
marginally in 1992/93, after the 4.5 percent contraction in real GDP in 1991/92, there was
still a decline in real per capita terms of about 2 percent over the program period.
45.    On the structural front, all prices (except those for petroleum products) and bank
interest rates were deregulated, and the monopoly of the state marketing companies over trade
in essential commodities was abolished. These changes considerably improved the availability
of basic products, including petroleum and rice. In addition, all quantitative restrictions on
external trade were removed, the exchange system was liberalized, and a market-determined
exchange rate system was established that continues to operate.
46.   The efficiency of revenue collection and the effectiveness of public spending improved
substantially under the RIC. Measures to enhance revenues have included increased excise
taxes on petroleum, tobacco products, and beer and spirits. To reduce tax evasion,
investigative units have been set up in key revenue departments and the Commissioner of
Income Tax has been empowered to conduct field audits of business records. The
Government has also eliminated all discretionary exemptions from the payment of custom
duties.
47.    The size of the civil service was reduced by one-third. The public enterprise sector
became smaller and more efficient, and now contributes to revenues.
Sustainability
48.   The RIC has been followed by a Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) designed to
support the continuation of measures that will help maintain macroeconomic stability, generate
a sustained supply response, and reduce poverty.



- 20 -
Table 1
Sierra Leone: Key Economic and Financial Indicators
(Performance Under RIC)
1988/89 1989/90 1990/91    1991/92      1992/93
RIC|         RI|
Actual          target Actual target Actual
Growth rates (percent)
GDP                                   2.2    4.5       2.8   -5.0  -4.5    4.1   0.7
Export volume                       -17.9   16.9      -2.0   -1.0  14.6   11.0  -9.2
Import volume                        15.1    1.4    -11.0   16.0    -      9.8    -
CPI (annual average)                 45.6   90.9    101.0  95.0  98.7  37.1  34.2
Shares of GDP (percent)
Gross investment                     13.4   14.0      11.9   12.2  11.7   13.9   9.2
Public investment                  2.7    3.9       4.2    5.0   5.0    5.3   4.3
Private investment                10.8   10.2       7.7    7.2   6.7    8.6   4.8
Domestic savings                      7.0    7.6       7.1    3.9  10.5    6.5   5.1
National savings                      1.2   -1.7      -6.5   -7.4  -3.1  -3.3  -8.2
Foreign savings (current account deficit)  -12.2  -15.7    -18.4  -19.6  -14.8  -17.2  -17.4
Central Government revenue            9.2    9.5      12.3   13.4  12.0   14.5  13.8
Central Government expenditure       18.2   21.5      22.5   22.7  20.9   21.8  20.5
Overall budget deficit(-) (commitment  -9.0  -12.0    -10.2   -9.3  -8.9   -7.3  -6.7
basis, excl. grants)
Source: Sierra Leone Government.
49.    Strict fiscal discipline remains the key to success in stabilizing the economy. Several
measures were taken under the RIC to strengthen institutions and to ensure fiscal discipline.
The Fiscal Monitoring Committee was established during preparation of the RIC to control
expenditure commitments. The committee, whose broad membership drawn from various
spending departments ensures better control of expenditure, and has been fully integrated into
the Government's administrative machinery. A Structural Adjustment Program Steering
(SAPS) Committee, chaired by the Minister of Finance, was established in November 1990 to
review progress under the adjustment program. This committee serves as a forum for cabinet
secretaries to voice their concerns about policies and implementation issues, and it has been
instrumental in extending the ownership of the program beyond the Department of Finance.
Expenditure planning, budgeting, monitoring, and control were strengthened in the Auditor
General's and the Accountant General's Departments and in five other key departments.
Institution-strengthening measures have included the establishment, by decree, of the Sierra
Leone Export Development and Investment Corporation (SLEDIC) to promote investment in
all sectors and reform of the civil service, spearheaded by the Cabinet Sub-Committee on
Civil Service Reform.
50.    To ensure sustainability, important reforms have been locked in. The Development of
Industries Act was repealed in November 1993 to eliminate unnecessary and costly tax
incentives. And in the public sector, enterprises were privatized, liquidated, or restructured
by the Public Enterprise Reform and Divestiture Commission (PERDIC).



- 21 -
Bank Performance
51.   The Bank contributed to Sierra Leone's adjustment program in several ways in the
context of the preparation and supervision of the RIC. During formulation of the RIC, the
Bank provided the authorities with advice based on experience with structural adjustment in
other countries as well as in Sierra Leone. To develop a successful financing plan, an
achievement in which the RIC was predicated, Bank staff met with other donors and
coordinated their efforts. And once the policy package had been designed, the Bank became
involved in the Government's discussions with creditors to develop a bridge facility until the
RIC became effective and the bridge loan was repaid.
52.   The Bank collaborated closely with the Fund on both the RAP and the RIC. The
Bank was fully involved in developing the elements of the RAP and participated in the
negotiations and mid-term reviews of the program.
53.   When the Government changed hands in April 1992, the Bank spent much supervision
time familiarizing the new economic management team with the adjustment program and with
Bank operations and procurement procedures. In this way, it ensured that the new
Government took ownership of the structural adjustment program. It also worked to ensure
that all policy conditions would be met by providing guidance and intensive supervision and,
when necessary, by delaying the release of the tranches. But the Bank remained flexible,
especially when the Government had made its best effort to meet a policy condition or when
the circumstances in which a condition had been set changed and the condition was no longer
appropriate. The Bank also maintained as much continuity as possible in the task managers
and staff associated with the program to minimize interruptions in supervision, an effort
considered especially important in this program because of the disruptions on the Borrower's
side.
Borrower Performance
54.    Despite continued security problems that affected all aspects of the economy, the
Government's implementation of the reform program was satisfactory, as shown by the results
both on the macroeconomic front and in the implementation of structural policy measures.
The Government performed commendably in the liberalization of the incentive framework for
private sector development, including reducing import duty rates, and in civil service reform.
But it progressed more slowly than expected in public enterprise reform, in large part because
of the change in Government shortly after the program was approved by the Bank's Board.
But the new Government took full ownership of the program, and the slippage in public
enterprise reform had been largely corrected by the third tranche release. Nevertheless, the
Government's inability to reduce the public enterprise sector according to the schedule agreed
on suggests some ambivalence on its part about the pace of reform in this area.
Lessons Learned
55.   The design of any program must address the risks inherent in its implementation.
These risks depend largely on the capacity and potential of the implementing agencies and the
political will of the borrowing Government. If implementation capacity is limited, the
measures in a program must be ranked by priority so that the capacity is used efficiently.
Also, institutional capacity must be built, either before or at the same time as a program is
implemented. The need for institutional capacity was addressed under the RIC by establishing
the Fiscal Monitoring Committee (FMC) and the SAPS committee.



- 22 -
56.    A program's design must also address political risks posed by the stakeholders who
stand to lose from reform. The RIC faced a fluid security and political situation. Further,
the Government had low credibility and a history of fiscal undiscipline. The Bank addressed
these risks by insisting on full implementation of fiscal reform measures while displaying
flexibility in the area of public enterprise reform after the Government had made its best
effort in implementing the program. The reforms were negotiated firmly but the financing
plan was kept flexible. Furthermore, the implementation of policy and structural reforms was
front-loaded, and the program was intensively monitored.
57.    The ownership and timing of a reform program are crucial to its success. With the
change in Government in April 1992, ownership of the reform program could not be taken for
granted. But the poor state of the economy helped ensure widespread ownership. Because of
a perception that the RIC would improve the economic situation, not only the new
Government, but also those who would bear the costs of adjustment, were committed to the
program. To improve program sustainability, the Bank should continue to encourage broad
public participation in program design. The experience with Sierra Leone's reform program
showed that efforts to generate Government and national ownership of structural reforms are
best started early in the design of a program.
58.    A Government's implementation capacity should be carefully assessed and taken into
account in designing the conditionalities of a program. Several years' hiatus in Bank
operations in Sierra Leone had left Government officials unfamiliar with Bank procedures,
and, in retrospect, it was clear that the number of policy conditionalities attached to the
release of tranches of the RIC was excessive. The strain on institutional capacity was
exacerbated when the Government had to implement other donors' adjustment operations,
often with different procurement and disbursement procedures.
59.    The continuity in the Bank's task managers and staff associated with the program (and
the very intensive supervision of the program) was key in the success of the program's
implementation. Maintaining this continuity was especially important for this program
because of the disruptions on the Borrower's side.



- 23 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW F'ROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction
1 .    The Government of Sierra Leone negotiated a rights accumulation program (RAP)
with the IMF that was approved by the Fund's Board in April 1992. The World Bank
immediately resumed existing operations in the country and also introduced new lending.
Following this, the Executive Directors of the Bank approved the RIC under the structural
adjustment program (SAP), which formed an integral part of the World Bank's medium-term
program of assistance to Sierra Leone. The RIC enabled the Government to clear its arrears
with the Bank.
2.     The original credit amount was SDR 31.4 million (2352-0-SL). This was followed by
a first supplement of SDR 0.22 million (2352-1-SL) and a second and final supplement of
SDR 0.21 million (2352-2-SL), bringing the total credit amount to SDR 31.83 million.
3.     The credit was to be fully disbursed on or before December 31, 1993.
Objectives
4.     The RIC was approved by the World Bank's Board on April 14, 1992, and became
effective on April 15, 1992. The RIC was essentially a balance of payments support
program, with the following main objectives:
*  To provide much-needed foreign exchange to import petroleum products and
such essential inputs for industry as raw materials and spare parts and to pay
for the printing of currency notes, which were in acutely short supply
*  To provide counterpart funds generated from import support activities that
were to contribute toward reducing the national budget deficit.
5.     In addition, the RIC was to serve as a catalyst, giving a "jump-start" to the economy
and providing the necessary stimulus to attract other donors, both multilateral and bilateral, to
participate in the structural adjustment program.
6.     As a condition of the credit's implementation, the Government was to take the
following actions:
*      Improve expenditure progranmning and control in key departments
*      Enhance revenue collection
*      Optimize the contribution of public enterprises to the national budget
*      Reform the civil service
*      Rationalize petroleum product pricing and tax policies.
Implementation
7.     The RIC was implemented smoothly and successfully by the closing date of the
project, December 31, 1993, and the credit was fully disbursed. The special account was
utilized in full, and all funds from the special account were properly accounted for.
Commercial banks were involved in disbursing the facility, and a minimum threshold of



- 24 -
US$10,000, to be paid 100 percent up front, was set as a precondition for the signing of all
contracts. There was absolute cooperation and thorough supervision by the World Bank staff
who were on hand and readily available for consultation and who advised the supervision
missions.
8.    The Bank's effective and regular supervision of the program reflected its clear
understanding of the objectives outlining the program's design and focus. The Bank staff
provided overall supervision and direction to the project and served as the conduit between
the Bank and Government authorities. They played a critical role in facilitating the policy
dialogue between the Bank and Government by providing the Sierra Leonean authorities with
advice on policy and institutional reforms based on other countries' experience.
9.     An excellent rapport was developed between Bank mission staff and officials
managing and implementing the RIC program. During missions, Bank staff participated in
SAP committee meetings and had detailed discussions with officials over the SAP/RIC,
reviewing work programs and logistical requests, and meticulously examining program
documentation and disbursement which contributed to the success of project implementation.
Credit Amount, Tranching, and Disbursement
10.   Allocations under the Credit Agreement show that a total of US$44.5 million was
disbursed during the project period (see Annex 1). The credit was on standard IDA terms
and was used exclusively to finance the foreign cost of the imports under the program, subject
to the Bank positive list. Imports of petroleum products, raw materials, and.i spare parts
amounted to US$39.4 million, or 89 percent of the credit. The import of currency notes
accounted for the remaining US$5.1 million, or 11 percent of the credit.
11.   A breakdown of the allocation into tranches, by category and type of product,
shows that in the first tranche US$22.8 million (51 percent), in the second tranche
US$18.8 million (19 percent), and in the third tranche US$8.1 million (18 percent) was
realized for the provision of petroleum products, raw materials, and spare parts (Annex 2).
For the import of currency notes, a total of US$5.1 million (12 percent) was realized from the
tranches, which became available after a satisfactory implementation review of the RIC in
1992.
12.   Of the total amount disbursed by the World Bank during the program period,
(US$44.5 million), expenditures on petroleum products, accounted for US$13.4 million (31
percent), those on raw materials and spare parts for US$2.1 million (5 percent), and those on
currency notes for US$4.6 million (10 percent). A total of Le 11.4 billion in local
counterpart funding was realized from June 1992 to December 1993. Of this total, Le 8.7
billion (76 percent) was from the provision of petroleum products, Le 788.9 million (7
percent) from the supply of raw materials and spare parts, and Le 1.9 billion (17 percent)
from the import of larger-denomination currency notes.
Monitoring of Program
13.   A Structural Adjustment Program Disbursement Unit (SAPDU) was set up in the
Bank of Sierra Leone to monitor procurement and disbursement procedures under the credit.
A Structural Adjustment Program Steering Committee (SAPS) set up under the RIC, which
was chaired by the Secretary of State for Finance and assisted by a Secretariat, closely
monitored the implementation of the agreed on conditions.



- 25 -
Achievements
14.   The following successes were recorded under the RIC:
The RIC was generally successful in meeting its objectives. Foreign exchange
became readily available through the commercial banks participating in the
disbursement process. RIC funds, which were supplementary to the
commercial bank's own resources, were sold to importers at the prevailing
market rates. The availability of RIC funds gave importers confidence and
helped to end speculative demand for foreign exchange. It also contributed to
the stability of the exchange rate.
Besides contributing to the funding of general imports, the RIC provided
funds to procure petroleum products, which "kept the wheels of industry and
commerce moving," including a regular and guaranteed supply of fuel oil to
generate electricity for both industrial and household use.
*      Counterpart leones generated from these activities contributed immensely
toward meeting agreed on targets and other performance criteria. The
program contributed a net sum of Le 11.4 billion toward reducing the budget
constraint. It also provided financial resources to the Government budget to
finance priority public expenditures.
*     The printing of currency notes was another area in which the RIC was
helpful. About 10 percent of the RIC funds were used to pay for printing
larger-denomination currency notes. The acute shortage of currency notes in
the banking system had contributed to the difficulties retailers faced and to the
financial system's loss of credibility. The shortage of currency in large
denominations precipitated a demand for large volumes of currency notes for
the smallest and simplest transactions. The printing of new notes and notes in
larger denominations alleviated -if not eliminated- these difficulties.
*     THhe improved access to foreign exchange under the RIC enabled both the
public and private sector to meet most of their requirements for essential
industrial raw materials and spare parts. Many industries, including Rainbow
Paint and Chemicals, benefitted from the improved supply of raw materials.
*     The RIC was crucial in filling the financing gap and in stimulating increased
donor support. It also played a catalytic role in making new financial inflows
possible, such as the current SAC, the successor program to the RIC.
*     Implementation of the program was well executed and ended on schedule,
with the credit fully disbursed despite initial delays.
Problems in Implementation
15.   Notwithstanding the achievements under the RIC, the implementation of the credit
also included some shortcomings:
*     The program took off slowly in its early stages, for two reasons: The general
decline in the economy and business at the time the program was initiated in



- 26 -
early 1992, and the business community's initial reaction -adopting a
"wait-and-see" attitude- to the change of Government in April 1992.
*     Many prospective importers had problems paying the full local counterpart
funds up front, one of the program's prerequisites.
*     The RIC, designed to give the economy a "jump-start," was restricted to items
that were in dire need and in short supply, such as industrial raw materials,
spare parts, and petroleum products. Its scope was therefore narrow and
focused on industry, neglecting such important sectors of the economy as
agriculture, commerce, and services. And because the program did not cover
nonessential products (tobacco, beverages), such major industries as Aureol
Tobacco Company Ltd., Sierra Leone Brewery, and Wellington distilleries
were exempt from the program.
*     The program stipulated a minimum threshold of US$10,000 for all business
transactions, an amount considered too high for some business people.
*     With the exchange rate and trade liberalization under the SAP, commercial
banks participating in disbursing the facility became increasingly involved in
selling their own foreign exchange resources. In time, a conflict of interest
arose in which the banks viewed the RIC funds as competing with their own
funds.
Recommendations
16.   The scope of the facility needs to be widened to include a negative list of imports,
rather than a positive list, as has been done under the SAC. In particular, assistance should
be extended to cover imports of consumer items, which form the bulk of imports.
17.   The minimum threshold of US$10,000 required for business transactions receiving
support under the program should be reviewed to consider cases of ailing industries.



- 27 -
PART Ill. rATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related IDA Credits
Loan                     Purpose                      Year approved      Status
Structural Adjustment    To support and deepen the          1993         Scheduled to close
Credit (SAC I)           reforms supported by the RIC                    June 30, 1996
to maintain macroeconomic
stability, facilitate a sustained
supply response, and reduce
poverty
Credit Position
A.s of February 28, 1994
(USS millions)
Credt                 Oriinal         Disbursed a          Canceled       Repid  Outstanding a
2532-0                  43.10          43.89                 -              -          43.65
2532-1                   0.30           0.32                 -              -           0.31
2532-2                   0.29           0.29                 -              -           0.29
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursementst
FY92            FY93            FY94
Cr. 2352-0
Appraisal estimate (USSmillions)                    17.40           39.70            43.10
Actual (USSmillions)                                17.40            42.00           43.89
Actual as percentage of appraisal                 100 percent     106 percent      102 percent
Date of final disbursement: January 13, 1994
Cr. 2352-1
Appraisal estimate (USSmillions)                                     0.30
Actual (US$millions)                                                 0.32
Actual as percentage of appaiisal                                 106 percent
Date of funal disbursement: January 7, 1993
Cr. 2352-2
Appraisal estimate (USSmillions)                                                      0.29
Actual (USSmillions)                                                                  0.29
Actual as percentage of appraisal                                                  100 percent
Date of final disburement: December 29, 1993
a. The credits were fuUy disbursed. Disbursed and outstanding totals differ from the original amount of the
credits in terns of US dollars because of changes in the US$/SDR exchange rate.



- 28 -
Credit Timetable
Original date                 Actual
Initiating memorandum                             09/02/91                   01/24/92
Appraisal                                         11/15/91                   02/11/92
Negotiations                                      01/05/92                   03/02/92
Letter of development policy                      01/05/92                   03/13/92
Board approval                                    02/15/92                   04/14/92
Loan signing                                      04/15/92                   04/15/92
Effectiveness                                     04/15/92                   04/15/92
Second tranche release                            08/31/92                    12/03/92
Third tranche release                             02/28/93                   05/28/93
Closing date                                      12/31/93                    12/31/93
Staff Input
(staff weeks)
FY91      FY92       FY93      FY94       Total
Preparation/preappraisal                   43.3       99.5      0.0        0.0       142.8
Appraisal                                   0.0       10.9      0.0        0.0        10.9
Negotiations/Board approval                           18.9                            18.9
Supervision                                            6.4     70.2       10.9        87.5
Total                                      43.3      135.7     70.2       10.9       260.1
Mission Data
Staff
Mission type                Month/year      Weeks       Persons     weeks      Date of report
Preparation                   09/91           3           4           12         09/19/91
Appraisal                     02/92            3          4           12         02/26/92
Supervision 1                 06/92           2           5           10         07/09/92
Supervision 2                 10-11/92        3           5           15          11/25/92
Supervision 3                 06-07/93        3           4           12         07/15/93
Supervision 4                 10/93            3          4           12         10/29/93



- 29 -
Summary of Disbursements
A. Allocations Under The Credit Agreement
Amount              Amount
Category         Description                          (SDR)                (US$)
I            Petroleum products, raw             27,760,000.00       38,806,259.20
materials/spare parts
1            Petroleum products,                   220,000.00           307,542.40
raw materials/spare parts
(Amendment 1)
1            Petroleum products,                   210,000.00           293,563.20
raw materials/spare parts
(Amendment 2)
2            Currency notes                       3,640,000.00         5,088,428.80
Total credit amount                31,830,000.00        44,495,793.60
Note: The exchange rate used in US$1.3979 to SDR 1.
B. Breakdown of ADocation into Tranches
Amount              Amount
Tranche          Category      Description                     (SDR)                (US$)
1                   1          Petroleum products, raw         16,280,000.00      22,758,137.60
materials/spare parts
2                    1         Petroleum products, raw          5,900,000.00       8,247,728.00
materials/spare parts
3                    1         Petroleum products,              5,800,000.00       8,107,936.00
raw materials/spare parts
3                    1         Petroleum products,               210,000.00         293,563.20
raw materials/spare parts
(Amendment 2)
1 - 3               2          Currency notes                  3,640,000.00        5,088,428.80
Total credit amount            31,830,000.00      44,495,793.60



- 30 -
C. Disbursement from World Bank
Share         Amount                Amount
Category   Description                 (*)            (SDR)                 (USS)
1      Petroleum products             54           17,294,436.72     24,345,916.62
1      (bridge loan)                  31            9,774,030.22     13,400,000.00
1      Raw materials/2pare parts      5             1,471,674.13      2,107,652.95
2      Currency notes                 10            3,289,858.39      4,642,151.33
100           31,829,999.46     44,495,720.90
D. Counterpart Leones Generated
(cumulative, June 1992 to December 1993)
Amount
Category      Description                                            (USS)
I          Petroleum products                                    8,695,149,771.78
1          Raw materials/spare pans                               788,907,088.00
2          Currency notes                                        1,903,315,180.82
Total leones generated                               11,387,372,040.60



- 31 -                                  Annex 1
PROGRAMN COrLIELETION REPORT
SIERRA LEOINE
RECONSTRUCTION LIMPORT CREDIT
(CrediLs 23>50-SL, 23521-SL, and .3522-SL)
Letter of Development Poiicv
\farz:   1992
MrL-. Lewis ;7. Preszon
e- Word B a = k
Washingroz, DC
De:ar Mr. P-asmon:
Re: SEern Leone's Str. c-i17 ^Jen  P
I wrv.-  to inform you of the progress which t!e C-over.senr of Sie=- Leone has made
cr nle-- g-, the e=nomic racover.y program set our in the Polic-r Framework Pa=e  TFP)
far 1990/91-1992193. I also wish to brzig to your a-endon  the sveos we inted to take : the
ne.-- .wo yea, -to strengthen and broaden the reform pr-cess. A sound eonomic reform  roa
is a necess-,, basis for ansition to a multinarzy de=cci wy which Sierra Lone is d;emndd
to an=o-iish durina the vear.
During the l9SOs, the economy was at a virL-aT s-xdsz2l1 and the GCve=e's poor
f.s=-i  anag-e:et led to a sharm inrease in the raLe of i-ndricn and a major weakening of the
bal-ce of payments posirion. Sinc: December 1989, our Coverent has put in piace a
comorehensive series of srucmral reforms. Tnese informs, and our strzegy for achievmig
r, oecanoac stability runist be seen against the bac4=und of a decade of deteriorthon m
eszse-nl iassucatre, as reeced in a dramatc deciine in the qualiry of public servicts -
ecucon, he;lth, roads, water and poww supplies - and some of the lowest social indiccrs on
the conrne=t  Resoring effcive fiscal management afe  ten years of neglI  will, howevr,
taket dine, perseveranca on part of the Government, and fnancial support by muliateaI and
bil iral donors. The Government's efform in the past tro years were frustated by such e^..aI
evenis as the inqux of over 2a00,000 Liberian refugees in the la1r part of 1990, the Gulf C-isis,
and =aore r=ecnly incmrions of Cehades Taylor's rebel bards ino key agricoltnral producdon and
rrning areas. This result  in a significnt loss in tomi tcipur and exoors, partcularly th of
rice, coffee, c=coa, and mninials.
rhe positive edfes of some of the struc::ml reforms we have put in plae are beging
to appear and we inted to stengthen and broaden these  reforms through the proposod
Rec=nsruadon Import Credit from Worid Bak We e=e= this cried to be the centerpiece of
a f nncing pl= that will enable us to dear our zars with the Bank and provide the necss
in; ow of foreig  exchange resourc:s to bumress the rifor- progrmr. It is also our hope th
both bilater3l a:;d mulrlarernl donors give subsmrial sucpcrt to the program ser out he:e.
ne C-vernmeac's medium-ter  smzegy was s5c ct in the PFP aproved by the World
Bank Comiz   of the Whole and the  1f Board in August, 1990.  The Governme's



Annex 1                                - 32 -
S.ru=-al Adjus=ent Pragr^ for 199-93, ariculated Lz cosu:an wib s-.of bacc the
Fuzd and the B=, includes t_e fUowilozg objecives:
(a)     -arinc- =caco-comic s-a ir, par-c"' --.y lower:ic te raa of l;laca
re  than 100 pe:-_-f: in 1991 (end-perico 'basis) to 50 perczat in 1992 and to
^o percent in 1993;
(b)    grdually reszori -, me govenet's C;3D^.  to provide basic seains;
(c)    .a:eag ar: econo=ic env;ioam= condiuve to private secr de!cvome=
wi-.in a predicable, =s=arete and fizir rerglaory fr-aewor, and
(d)    ac.ieving an average annual GDP growth      of about 4 pert--- in 1992 and
1993, following a sig,nmlc= Icss in total outnut in 1991 due to the rebel
In order to achieve stable macrTocanomic condi,cns, we will pursue tigh nscal and
monetary policies. Tne overall budget de.cit was reduced frm 1 1.3 percent of GDP in 1989/90,
to 9.5 percent in 1990/91. There has been a shar= reducion in government borrowina from the
Ce==al Bank over the past two years; this fciliry will ordy be used as an ovenLraft ac=    in
the tu=nre and nez domestic financing wil be limited to the sale of troeas-ry bills and long-:--
Government bonds to banks and the nrn-bank public.
Our agree=e=t with the IM  on the Rigsu AcIatica Program inc!udes measue
whic!i will enhance revenues while enabling the Governme: to improve its provision of ser.ic:s.
The mar*fcei d- eine d en:chge rate systam, which was in:Lu uced in April 1990, is  c:;oning
well with the co,   cial banks buying and sellg foreign =zhange ar any price agreed by the
parmes involved without government inrr rventioL  Ihis has led to an improvement in the
availabiliry of foreign exchange in the commercial banks.  I would like to reiteae our
commiment to mriintai  a fully func:onLin  comneitive e-change rare  syste:m  witou
Goverment int.-;eztion. Furthermore, the framework for the establishment of foreign excange
bure=x was ncoducad in November 1991 and the first bureau is e%p=ed to begin ope:aon
in April 1992.
As an essenral accompaniment of the floadng exchage regime which we have put in
place, we now have a fully liberalized a2de systam. All tade licens were abolished in April
1990 except for gold and diamonds for monitoring purposes. Trade in rice was also privadzd
in 1990 without pr.ce restictions. Impor2ion and dlsi on  of pealeum and petrol=
prcduc was lIberalized in July 1990. All adminisuaive co;ols on price seming were removed
in .,pril 1990.
We recognie  at major improvemeG in fiscal ran2er-eit are c=tral to econmic
smbiliry ad long-term growth in Sietta Lecne. We intend to conrirme to improve the cency
and effeenew of revenue collection and public expendcles so 3    government's role as
provider of basic servicas is restored. In dtat courx, the 1991/92 Budge: as approved by the
Parliamen in August 199 1, adopted new revenue measures ia addition to the suegthening o 
a2d4iris=ation in sueviic areas. Improved collections 3nd seveal = measures as well as be:er
mnagem=nt of Siez- Laane's nara-i resources, are expected to increase our revenue yield fom
11.5 per:  of CDP in 1990/91 to 13.4 percz;$ in 1I91/92 ard further to 14.7 percex of GDP



Annex 1
bv 11993/59. IT  =de= with this, imrrcved eXendirre  r-cl azd a snr.aIler Coverme- are
e nWed to c n      te co lower rec=ren: exoe=idcLres as a ta-r oe G-D. However, a sha= ri *e
in wa-rrTa f         ezpendlrurrs and a rise iz tong-negi    deveicoment ependiures would
to a larz  e=---: orse exzend rize c-us on salari;S and goc.cds and servic.s. As a resul, the
overail fisLQ1 dei.: in 1991/92 is e:;ecd to ai! to 9.3 pe Of o GD? in 1991/92, 7.3 per:e
in 1992/93 and 5.7 percent in 1993/94.
Measure-s co ivrove  ax  adrnnisnatca and ccLUc-icn will include stengthe=in7
pr-i.rnivy zhe Cus=o==s and the Income Tax dear.-enrs, with -anzcal assistance from the Unit-d
Kingdom, and Leg,slarion to eirnower the Commissioner or Income Tax to conduc field a.
The Govermnment's mnedium term revenue prospers have be= e::hanced by renegotiating 
agreem rs With the Sierra RuTile Com=any and the Sierra Lzane Ore^ and Metal Co=any
(SE:ROMCO), whica is involved in mining and export or ba"ize, with assis;ancz fri the
United .Nations Caenter for Transnadoaal Cornor aLons (UNCT C), and pu:ing in place a fisheries
sarveillance systa-n. The intoducton of a pre-shipment ispecton a.rrangemect for qu'liry,
quantiry, and pr.ce verifcation of impor-s and .xorts has also contmfbuted to an increase in
revenue colleo=s by Customs. However, in order to szataiine the operaion of both the
fisheries sur eilac. system and the pre-shipment inspectJon agreteine  and arrive at a mre
ecuitable revenue =aring arrangement, the Government hs 'atarad the renegoation of bot
agreements.  A bwnus system for Customs and Income Tz-t Dea=ent staf intoduced in
1989/94 has resu.ir.ed in subsantial imrroveinents in coilact'oas.
A Fiscal -Monitoring Commit:e has been set ur to review, on a weekly basis,
expendinere coznzenrts, revenue collections, and the Gover-.ent's czsh flow. This process
will be stngte::ne-  in the coming montLs by providing *     advisors to the planning and
budgedng unirs of key ministries (Education, Health, Wori:, and Agricultere). The pays-,e=
funcon has been t_nsfLe.red to the Accunmr Gneral's Decarzent which is being assisted by
tech.nical advisers in line positions provided by the EEC. The C-over-nm= has also com=ieted
the validation of all outstanding claims on ir by conractors. The operations of the Cennal Tender
Board have been seamlined and it now func:ions as a technical body as provided in the Financlal
Orders. To Gover-nent is commited not to underrake any =3jor supply contac or invesaeat
proje  which is rxt included in the three year roiling public inveszeat program agreed with the
World Banie In this con=t, the Governent has canceled the consaz to purchse television
station euipmenz fram the Siemens Comnany in Germany.
In February 1991, Cabinet endorsed a volun=ry severance policy for public sector daiy
workers which wil lead to a substantial reduction of the govnment establishmen in the n
two years. More than 5,000 ghost works were removed fom the payroll in 19901, and ovcr
5,600 daily workars had volunteered to leave the service hrough mid-Jamry 1992. We ited
to reduce in 1991/92 the number of daily workers and civil service stff by a total of 10,000 (on
a n= basis) thro# voluntary deparmre, rrencbment, and emorc of the mandamtry
redxemee age, whie limiting new recruinnen to essental, higher level, positions only.
Thc r     rebel incursions have placed a firther burden upon  n already hard-pr=sed
budg_, beanse orf oth the need to provide additional equipmenr for the secriry forces and the
deorcssing efac of me incarsion upon c=swms reverue collec:~  and c=ffe, co'a, and alluvial
dia=nd ecoorts. Tae Governments first prioritr mustr be to preserve the integrity of Sie:n
Leone territory and :o restore a safe svironmnes which wi1 allow people to r3rn to their f3sm
and rniirg acr:w-i-e  as son as possible.  But we are ca=oied to monitring def=c



Annex 1                                - 34 -
ex- ^^dirues ver; closely. To this end, the Prsident ses 1-_    Emerge-cyv Defense CAVGin
in .-?rii 1991, w- ich reviews military, police and other s -r.:rv e pe"di.re coi==e:z on a
weeLkv basis.
Followi- our polic-y sataem.eC in the PF?, we have ^l'rady take- a number of mecsres
to i.mnrove the e      -.c encv of sorme ngzssrs2ls and to  raraze th-e way ror the priva c or,o
otners. aTo ezs_re that all public enterprises operate on a ==-euve oasis, pr.-e Conu.ns cn
se-  oz pc vie c v suca enterprises wer: re=oved in Aoril 1990 aad all their dury and saia s
emz.:ions and =rivileges were eliminated effeacve Julv 1991. rae validaton Of crcss deb
bez-2 ee public --prises and government will be cnm:pi- by the end of March 1992 and a
se- e.enr scedule wil be agreed upon with such public enrse  by June 1992. Furir-re,
the inccme tax eremptions of public enterprises will be revoked effeve July 1992. The
Government is co=mired not to create any new public ente-prises or =---d new loan -uarames
or lez-r of credit by the Bank of Sierra Leone to any public eMterprises without consultation wict
the World Bank_ We e:pec:: to compl-e- per`ormance con=ra-cs with key enterprises re
in the public semcr by December 1992 and have areed with Bank statf on a work prograi to
dives 'me Gove.rient's share in the Sierra Leone Pe rcie  Reining Company, the Sie--a
L*ean  National Pemoleum Company, the Sier.a Leone National Insurance Company, and the
National Diamond Mining Company. The Gover=:ent is also coiniead to divest all    -
owne hotels.
AL,Cwi7 -e will be the basis for sustined growth in the medium term. The eihmin
of 0te Sierra Leone Produce Markeing Board's monopiy on coffee and cocoa trade in 1988189
has aaIndy res-Aed in substantially improved incentives to farmers. Privame taders are moving
coca and coefee =ore effecively aLd aiso cantibure to faLer supoor: syszems. Some Farmers'
Co-operadve Associations are now considering going into e=orting the produce of its me s
dirm'y to increase farmers' income. We intrnd to dives: the Board's ccomme cial activities :ct
essennal to performing its mndate by August 1992.  Gove:nmenr re:ognizes that the fulI
PrMvazaioan of Lmnorc and disriburion of rice in 1990 has iLroved food sec=rry signifc=tiy,
wri-e :elieving the government budger. Furter imorovements in food supply in the urban areas,
however, depend largely upon rehabilitation of roads and other communications. Because we
recogizz the urJe- of moderating urban food price increasesand to inrove farmers' incomes
we intend to place considerable emphasis upon the efffecve operation of an autonomous
Hignways Author:ry, with secured budgetary allocarions, to be respoasible for managing road
rehabilitation and maintenance by private canrors.
An ade=tn  and reliable fuel supply is critical for economic stbilizarion, to redce
transprt costs ad provide kerosene for domestic cooking and lighting. Government eliminrd
the Sierra Leone Penoleum Refining Company's import monovly in July 1990. There has be=
some improveme= in fuel supplies and reduced pressure on the Governmenr's foreign e
rescur=s. Pump pricas were increased about eight fold (in local c=ency terms) berween July
1989 ad Oc:aber 1991 and cross-producs pricing subsidies were eliminated in July 1990. At
the same time, the pricing formula to reflea: changes in world prices and exchange rates, while
allowii g for distribution mnargis was intrduced. Gover ;nz has ini     the tender process
for a :nedium=-er  petroleum products supply conrc: with a rlutable i=narional oil company
and wiil conclude the contact by early April 1992. The pricig formulaae will be res;rucined
in Iigz of the changes introduced to the operaton of the secrr. Government is committed tD
snrc:ry apply the produm pricing formulae agrxed with the World  3ank and delegt the
aznnunce:m=t of -u.mo prices to the indusny without Gover---  zerver:ion. A pec-leun m



Annex 1
i.     MLaisz7 of Trade, IndusEf and Stae Etrerprsas, supporzed bv technical e:zper-,, wiil be
sez u- to roitor inter-national azd dornestic activities in pedole"' procureenr, pricing ard
7Te - --;-g sector in Sie.-a Leone will conti_ue to be a =jor source of revenue in the
n:J- rwo de:cads. We have already put in place a revised ,agreement with Sier.ra Rutile, and have
jus            renegotiaaon or the agreeine-t with SMEROMICO which is eveaad to be madzied
by -He P?alia=en: by June 1992. Furthermore, the Gove:-=ent intends to finalize by Decf ber
199    .---fo -or the e: oiitaiann of Siea Leone's kiberlite resources with a private :oreign
imvestor with assisace from UNCTC, which will imcre'e Ga       vernen's loag-cerm reveue
prcspects and, more iincorandy, encourage further private corporate invesc:ent.  A; the
begining of 1991, the government, after diricult and lengthy dis sajions, eszablished more
tansparent licesing, eport and valuation arrangements for alluvial diamonds. At present, five
fzr=s are licezsed to exoort diamonds with no obliga=ton to surende: foreign  iange proceeds
arter the: pay 3 percent combined valuation fee and inccrme tax. Sanctions agaimst smugglers are
be-, enorced effectively and services of an intermaromal securiy nin will be uilized to
r-in'--ie illegai diamond arade bv June 1992. We have made substantial progress towards
cOrniezion or tu- draft Minina Bil, which provides the fra=ework for mining inves=e,
txaton, proflt renatiaxion, and the environmental tea=e=z of mining activities, with asis=a-nc
fto; -UNC7C. The draft Bill provides the basis for czasultarion wi-.n the Bank on a revised
;-inl- policyf eaodied in the dra;ft Mining Bill.
The eronmic decline of the las- decade, the det--rioration in public infrastracr-: and
ad-iniriarion, and the short-cerm effecss of some of te recent sra1  reforms have =used
livin  s=dards to fall sharply, partc-..larlv among the poorer segments of socierf and those wimh
.I-fd incomes. In orde. to reduce the welfare cos; of adjuLs=enr, we intend to incroese budget
prcvision rfor th;e social sec:ors, implement programs to co=en-sare retenched public sec-.r s;
and otner are-te   roups, and encourage increased donor funding of non-gove.-=e:3
or-aizarions' (NGOs) programs. Despite the fiscal conszainr, budg- y allocations for health
and  ducation were increased fmm 11 peret to 16 perce-n of non-in=est reurrent exnedires
be^ween 1989/90 and 1991192. But much more rmlains to be done and we have agreed wita the
Wor.d Bank in the context of the Public Expenditura Review  for a sizele allocation in the
1991/92 budg-  for socially oriented programs to be implemented by NGOs active in Sierra
Leone. Additional budgetry allocations have been provided for labor isz- ive road ma:inteance
prcjecto employing retr:ched workers.
To be abie to sustin this proc=ss of adjustrent, we urgently need substantial foreign
assis=cz.  In the absence of such assistance, the infatonary impac of some of the policies
which we have pursued in the past nwo years, such as a flexible excbange system, high nominal
int-rest rae, and increased paymens to international cre:trs, will endanger the progr-am  In
many respec5 Sierra Leone's adjustent eforts compare favorably wfh those of many Afric
couies which receive substatial amouns of external assistanse.  Siesra Leone's stongest
adjusceat efforts have beea in the area of exchange raze reforms and in the lIeraliztion of
trace. The e:xhange rate is not subject to any controls by the Governer and floats on a daily
basis in conrast to many countries in the region. The Governent's reform program in the area
of trde lIberalizaton has also gone much funrher than rany counties in Sub-Saharan A.ric:L
P biic seor =ade agencies now comnete openly with the private sector in both domestic and
exetoal ade in =n; to many counties on the Africa  continen, where tade is still subje:
to subsranial government controls. While our achieveme:  thus far hzve been weaker in the



Annex 1                                - 36 -
ars of fiscal rnnnagement, we have, nevertheless, redu.d the fiscaI deficit subscntally and
is now comoarable to tha of several African counties. However, the lack of external financing
has meant tha fiscal deficit financing is by definition iflatIonary. As the fiscal deficit is reduced
further and as eternal financing inflows increase, the rare of inflaion will decline subsrntially.
I regnize, Mr. President, that despite our abundant narrI resourzes, we cannot expec
to achieve Iong-erm  economic growth if we do not have an erffiesve eccnomic sbilizion
program. For that we need exernal resources. The continued support of MA in the coming
monrhs through the Reconstrucion Imort Credit and by other instr=ent is viral. The rcnt
se=ty pressures unde which the Government has had to operate adds urg=nc to my request
for your support and that of the donor community as a whole. Moreover, as we look forward
to the restoration of multiparty government under a new Consitution, which provides for graer
accu =n bity of political leaders and public ofcials, we need to be asured ofasound ecnomic
base-
Yours sinc-ly,
Is/
James S. A. F-rnna
Minister of Fnnce,
Development, and Economic Planning
Re1ublic of Sierra Leone



EIERRA IEONE UEMSTINJION  MINT  CIFDIT (USC)
ATURIX Of POICY ACTIONlS
.,. c*o.  .tSlUl                                                 .                      ,,.   .                                     _      cin __   _~     lhcIbil
Restore a stable macroeconomic           Achieve stable imncroeconomc          Overall l4xi.jet deficlt uAns reduced          Satisfactory revlew of    Satisfactory revlew of
environment condiscive to the            conditions through ptirsult of    Irwos 11.3  of Coa  IrI 19.I9/90 to 9.5X    the perfornoane on                   hlit per-oirsu1ntrcc d
ordkrly restructurigl of e it             Iht flscsl II osseatsry             uo  OIP to) 1990/91.                            ssacroecCOWsiC 1pt1 Ikits,   lIsCr`tOtLoin44Isi. 1ollries,
scoaly uaekdil lor a statialsnlie        policies  consistent with                                                            taklng tIlu  colksidcr-       toklin'j tInto LOII-
urouila Shrotughs                         '-""Swg rote of inflation from  Ihe siare of batik borrowing In delicit  *tioni FIid stallfs                      slicrnation faKi ctaflfs
ICOX In 1990/91 (esvial average  financing was contelancd al arotaui 25    a'sess s  elt                          assessmnelt.
(I)   Suitientlally redcing the          basls) to 10K In 1991/92  I35         percent In 1989/90 & 1990/91.
rete of Inflation.                 In 1992/93, L 20X In 199/94.
(11)  Signillcantly strengthening
fiscal olnitorins A control.  maintain a cometltive exchenge
OIIi) Ilaintaining a libeiraliled ax- I tredat srytem & dlamond mining
chuge I trade *yatem.              polIcy, thereby shilting trade
from parallel to official
market. ._                                                                                                             _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _
Increase t t export base of               Maintalning a fully lun tloloin   A floating excharge system Was                   Review the statiutory lv-  ConIiVtc a review I
prodction I reuxave all trade r-    llealbis exchange system.                   introduced In April 1990 1 Is now             port dity exelptioun;          Ireision of tar If I
strictionu  to  llainete                                                      lIsctlonilig soothly.                          iiscontirntue ex*tenilon of  itructuire L Devetofsnent
41stortioni.                             Maintaining a fully liberti.e.                                                        exlsting period upon         Of Inhistries Act rf
tre  system.                         Etcblitilfent of forecgn excliange             expiretion.                    19tt.
txsreaue wse atItimortaccilen llvevd"er
IWI1.                                         Extend preehspnent
inspection to alt
All trade licenses were abolishedl In    isiorts L exports.
April 1990 except for gold & diamlotl
ftr wltltriti  liirposts
All price controls were eliminated
ellective April 1990.
Importalion of rice was privatlzedl In
1990.
Sttsntlaietrly elilinated discretionary
Iport duty exeaptions from Janluary
199.
Ieportetion & dietrihuitlf ol petro-
letas I petroleum protaicta were
liberallied elfcctive July 1990.
A preshipeent Inspectilon arrangenent
was set *b In Noveaier 1990 as a folust
ventLre between time Goveruea.nt A a
private foreivg  firm  for prlce a
rEllatty coctrot for  siports L exports.



SIENNA tEcr~ RooEIUSIKIMTIoN UWOin citfDlf (1t1c)
MAtRIX Of FOLICY ACTIMS
_______________  ~~~~~~~Ir*tegy               .      A~~~04tII i~&~t&H ~                                   trbju                   III<  I rir   t604t It t
Imitrove t llsfficlnucY I elflective-  Focus pxlilc  exp.etiltureu  on               lleacihedi agreetnt Nltlt Uorl4 Safik on          Racdi agreeient wlith          Simplify  tax atribcture                to
iWal ul revewlte coilectionS   pti.llc  realoring Goverr   Otee role  In   tle coo"citloni of 1991/92 revereice                        UwLI&J Bik  wn tht               to   YoiI(d 4ilitIcat ln  L
%tpwiltures throngh  improvetJ allo-  the ecofew    as provider of                   aiOl emiettiliulrva I Imbl Ic itvestn,eit    ciioVolitllo  Of 1V2/95                ascFiliu  1o tlaxte.
caIlon & management  of I"(I IC              beic  ssv Igee, aItl of 1a it.l lb        UogaIsn for  1991,92.                           revctlem  a ex1co i titfCi
tecottrca  I caelily lot delivery             Acwatlxts,  xtenallon   aeivice.  I                                                     * 1992191-199/95 IIdIAIc  stircaimle  ile strutclure
ultf servkcs.                               traliln,  road., uater &                A flscal Moritorlig Ctwltlee  was                  livestment program.             of the cumtaM  IL Excls
*nisatlotn.                            etablished  In Septeaber 1990 to                                                    epartment by
control expendiltures.                            Strengithen  the Auxditor        ill etrneititlo  the
improve the  lplementat ion                                                             tGeleral e (eplrtnclit lq   * eCcm,n4gitat l xi  of the
copacity ot the  xiAdlc seivice   major revermie meesurea  lntroxktceil                      cicrul I l(o  sIt  I foill  (XJA Repurt.
throtghd  strengthenling the            Inclalilng; (1) a lox sales tax o)I               tptl il  l staff IL loula-
plariltng A bxilget log fltvctlons   domestIc proiscmiA Im iportedI goodis;                tics Ito exrcise  lle           StxAIl  to  the pn IlIa)nt
of the Goverlmneni I throulgh            (i) sAIstantlsily hlihler excise  tax            constitutional                   a coisol lil'edl inc ixc
technical assisterce II                 on petrulean, lbeer A tobacco pro<kicte;  rcuoxnel Iititiea.                       tax tctulata  in.
trainig.                                & (111  tilglher fee. K rate.  fur
t Icetave.                                       conmqetae reschietkl l g of  NO rmcu tkdlt oil ioit-
ottt:t3ndingr  dxnetic          ci k wce aaI Lo I termu w ill
leaseures to enhance revertles  Erosa             claim  an goverasnelit.        tI  cotre         wiclthtxI
Sierra Ltene's ialtural rebomtrcce fi  a                                          cc.sguttaitlw,   lti time
treawparent mrswert   (1) renegottatlont  improve tax adinistrc-    iatik.                                                 W
of the mining agreesmet mlti II*                  tlion/collectIon br   I  (1)
Sierra Nutite Coat-any; & (fii  puotting    intro&cirng  too  allaton
itn place a lisherle sturvelittaice               to eapowe r the  incwne
system.                                           lax Commiesion to con-
dkict field audits; arw
Stttantlally reduced financial                    (11) streamling Itie
t4iiiayly to  xlti lc clerprlisets               sliuctutre of tlte  loicno
l otx Depar lament bIy  a1  se
rtirtiler strerVlitet4l  llts filcal            mtteittlolg the recCAl,nesnia-
?to1itariot  Co,iuultite ly;  I1) focusIng  tlon  of Ihe repott bey
On empeiltlirar  control at ea conmaiiittent  MA)A expert on tax adilln-
alate rallicr titan ik payeilt; I (11)           Iltratiotn.
ira`11farr-d  lia paueplet monitoring  L
conitrol fiwcilo  lto  Iliat Accotalttit          Strengthen  extpedilittira
General 's Office.                               IlxitJeting & conttrol
sysate In the minlistries
Ccaieted validetion of all oxt-                  of E-cetlon  Heallth,
stlanling domestic cailms by external            Works, A Agr|cullure brf
audillora  it February 1992.                     providlig  techictical
stjpor finanaced lby the
Reorgvenied the Centrelt lender Board             uorld  Bank.
to awke It lxtetoet as a techiniical
Iboy as provided  loI ilia Financil               Mlo new debt onl
Orlerdt                                           iuto icseelotal  taintS
ll t  ctiontracted wotit-
PUit fit plce a  yten for coltectlion             Oti  conMultetin  Willi
of petroieoa 2ems isdy *n a                       ilieekly    lit  Saik.
easis In febtruary 1992.



SIERRA tEONE RECUoSIRIJCtloN I9ur1xT C(RUT (RIC)
MAIRIX of POK 3CV AcTilUIs
8XX  t  *  ii  tl " $tr ; T | ^ ! '; . ;~~~t (i
fttILlfcwlfe~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                   .:. ...  .                              .Alwal  .etie1btt
leIora tha cEvil service to restort Restructuring of civil service  Cabilet agprovel o otelned to proceed   tte4c  the rnaber of                    Couplet  Job Inspection/
efficiencly   cpcity for delivory  eaplosyment through redtiuion In with time staff re4ectlao exercise In    civil servlic  eWplyees   fAtalonal revieu ot key
of services.                           the raesber al contract daily        February 1991.                              Sq lo* oac a fc st lssl  etiiftrlce.
eosqloye.s A encouraving volts:-                                               tit 1991/92 tjimommuim
tery detertirs of civil            More ttsu 5000 gost worakiers mere          vel itetary dlepartuie,     Io1u,'tae tile cesezue of
servants; ealtry sustueents to removeJ from tIi% payroll 1i 1989j90 1   retramchawent A enlorcli s   cieoata & teachers  ,
cnceae the aerviceie ability    1990/91. I 5600 daily workers voli e-   retirement rules.                    eliminate ghost teachers
to attract I retain key per-        teered to leave  civil service by mid-                                   Identilfed by the
eanel, training program  A          Jauery 199Z.                                Satisfactory progress In  coenea.
inetitutilnel retorma.                                                          carrying out the cenmis
Established ceilings en the ruaber of   ot schools A teachers.
dally bwoers per ministry for
1991/fl.                                  bLimt net recruitment to
anly essential
Reached W*r,   t with Ihe Ulnk& en          jlost ins.
caempenstion peckege for bteth daily
workers A teqI"erary staff.                 Reach agreement milh the
Uorld lank al 199W/91
_______________________________________ salary jtructure.
trewlele cost-affeclive services a        'engage from activitles tAimch  moved all price controls on services  Elmineste all  tibaldles   Estabilh accurate ip-
mialss contribution to budget.    dLa to their cmercialt nature  provide  by tin" lc enterprises                        to NoIC.                     to-slate scoatts for
could better be prerfrmd by         effective April 1990.                                                    terse key easterpriete
the private sector.                                                             Estalilsim monitoring        IGVUCC  SPA, Stc1. S6004
Csaettd maport ukty enept status of    capcity In thi  Hof to    A 6SLt.
Comrcialsem the operation  ef at pb llic sniterpr sea  Wefctive Jetty   oversee the financale
enterprisse  reminlV In pidAic  199).                                          relatilwo ilp of key  hlj   filier ltuil pcriolrenca
scter                                                                           llc e rerprises tetith       cairact mitim key tAdaIlc
Abolilhed SIPWI. merlitiang I  laponrt    Governwent.                     nterprises realmnj In
monopoly In 1990.                                                       tie pmiic sector.
Comapite the review ol
Initiated streamlining of the SIPMH  c   anagewmnt contrect for   tiveet Goverrment'r
operations,  incluLitg a retiehisncy        tile Ports Authority.        asimre In tlie Natlinal
prolfram.                                                                 etrheraan to.   tilm
copietoe sellin  of         Natioeal insurance Co.
intesilied lam A dividend collection   Coverrent's share In
afforts--collections Increased 4 tles  tIia Petroleus  etfinosry    Aeach agreement with the
In 1990/91.                                 Cwolny.                      orld slt en a work
rogram to set up regu-
Reorganized moard of Dlrectors of                                       Votory bodies In charge
several tEs to Increase private sector                                  of ectivitles of varlous
participation.                                                            t;lc utilities:
sLNic, 5111, SPA, GVUC,
Enlorceti accaumntabillty for operaltons                                &    A.
uf IkAlic elnterprises (SiC  state
ltetery4 Usilllwaton *iermil(erieas.                                    ' LIAP1a1e116 tie "atio      i



SInRSA LEONE mECSIUMWTicM  iiuwl CREPIE  (lIC)
IAltRIK Of MtM.IC ACEIIOS
'it! $''  Ej  'i  z    ;         '            . .                                           -                         - -    i-.'  2:;; 2t.i *. 
Incorporatie  the pebi lc postel service                                                                    x
to oqerale on a co_rcial balss.
Cabinet autitorlitd In Jruary 1992
saIling el Coveorment-oumnd hotels.
Completed Inventory al cross debt
between public enterprises A
Govsrrnmwat In Marcht 1992.
Cabinet approved the letting ti of [fe
Public Enterprise Before and
bivestitur. Caeltaso.
Agreetd with Uorid lank on a work
program tok  1) dIvest thie UP.  PHC I
tirE  (11i  restructure SLfliag a4 (I11)
plice else awuc tndr a manageoceit
.________________________________   .___________________.__ _   contract.                            4_
Caltonsi e troltin, procuresent I lo OulIV tlberallt  the Ieaor-  Itie Petroletu  kelItming Coliaopns                Atar *tebittztton ol          aal xt  zm  prtke  tor
prici   to provide adequate A           tatlon, dtstrttljioron, I prtlra l    iinopoly to Iqacrl petrolemn ucs         st"alty review If            petrluteas proxactis  uaiing
ratab1  a l smply of petroleu"  prod-  of petroleur  pro'kxts, A            amllihed efaective July I990.               rationallr  the etrucx-    iiae pricing laormmt
acts at le&st cost.                     eliminate tho Pstro(ise                                                         lure of toe pricing lor-   urstd wlith time Uorld
ref mary Comenrye amonopoly to  Crosseproaixatm pricing subsidies were  sels to lower                        Da1k.
Irport cnA. oll & peirolein         elilomiaed ly Jilly 1990.                   dltrirltion margin I
riroxacts.                                                                      lacreese Govet,enc,at
A pricing forruls to rellect Slte           taxes.
changes In world prices & tile amchenrge
r;tes,   i *ll   o allowing for the dl.-    Adjust pimp prices for
trltilaorm  mArgin,  cas Introduiced In    petroletm products using
July 1990.                                  the pricing lorlatell
avrete( wllti mIe Uolid
Petroletn prot&scl ptr Wl plrces were    Diank.
Increased eight-fold between June 1989
& Octo'er I"9l to wore than SZ/galiwn
to railect change In the sxcrcahge
rates A world prices.
mestrisatured  ctroltnn  radcst
pricig flora u   I n   t      1        to
ratilona I:r marketers' morsin while
-  ncressi9 ptroletma axes.                                                                         I



SIERRA lEoNE PEWUSTRII     IICO  1i11A  chCoDI  (RIC)
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIOnS
*                                    ..Auls4llo l  iblLt  i re :._____
inprove incentdve  for agricultural
exports.                                 PermIt privets Irers to lAi IL Horketig * export of coffee I cocoa    Maintain tearestricted                      Lift thie sanpenalon of
export directly.                      'ore  fully Iltiersiiald In 1990.             privte IRItort of rice        iity oil rice irt xia.
hz1ninln ilmely I &dquotsi   stply                                                                                           wulillutt price coitrols.
of rice I other food Crop..              Incr.ss. I  taintlin  1LPH4's         SIPM11'a export Nxitlooly wo climlineted
minion pro4icer price at nrot   fi  1990.                                          HMIntain * llberailltd
less thna AO percent of the fob                                                     trade esytem  for agri-
price for coffee I cocoa.             importation, dIsiriAtioln. I pricing    cutIarsl cash crolz.
of rice wa,s Itualy ttialla.d ini Iv90.
AAtisatlt  reveje from the fIlhing    Nelntanitng e consistent I                A Goverrcnenit joint venture with tlas        Restructure tile capital
sector.                                   transparent system eor survail- private sector uws agreed for cutrvell-  base of the Marine
lance I onitortin  of comner-    lance I managemnt of marits  resources  Protrction Services
dclal fishing activities In           In Sierra Leone.                              loilt venture a Its op-
Sierra Leone.                                                                       eragtlont  aaOiStiles         _
Isprove How of artiesne  .tnine          fetebtith streamlined A Itrow-   Five Internattonel tirm   liccneed to    M4lntain a blibilOu                     mtaintain a mt,ilaag pro-
export through normt trade               parent  ilconasing I export            export diiietilia In Janaiory 1991.          pnrodLction L export          Lbctioai & ekport policy
cholre.                                  proIbare.                                                                            policy acceptable to          acceplable to Uorld
A transparent veluation system for            Uorld  ulak.                  Bank.
gold I  lmanond exports In operatlio
since february 1991.                                                        conptlet  ccvrprthenslve
review of jining Invest-
Allowtd dlmond exporters e IOOX                                            ateit taxetioGn I, ntcen-
retention of lleir export proceeds.                                         tive policies wIth
Incre.et4 the tog on dlamnd  exports                                        assistaece of World Bank
from 2.5S to  X IL rationsiled Its                                         I. tIICIC.
strawturo with a view to increaingl
Covertiexntts shere offective sJsijary
IW 2.
Encou@rog  lncrastd  rivate              ConciztA  revised sgreemens nhegotilted 6greement with Sierra                        Complete renegotlition
Irwveslmtt In mineral development,  with prlncipal Inveetore.                  Mutlis (1990) A Sif nhine (IW9O).              of the agreabeant will,
. ~ ~ ~   ~    ~   ~    _ _ _ _ _ __ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ ._    _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ .t    R~i  O __                      _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _
lo allv  aet  w dsproad poverty I    Increase su  stentlily th"                the I hare of Dliaigetsry alloctions for  Agree witl Ithe Uurld             Wane.
minimiss lhe weifare coat at             budgetary expenditures for the   kealth I ed.jcation increased Irolaa IIX  lUankl  in ilia context of
ertrcturl adlustment program an          socialt sectors.                      of non-interest recurrent budget In            tlas PElt  on tile 1,  a
tha socleily vulnerable groae.                                                  1919/90 to 14.t7  In 1990/91 & to lo.OX  coapoltlon of i^06getery
Develop & Ioplement program  to   In 1991/92.                                       allocatiot  for the
oacspstae  employees lesving                                                        eocial sectors lot the
civil service.                        Provided special bxigcetary altocotion   1992/93  budge.
In tiae 1991/92  "get lor the rocIally
Encourage donor Ifanding of           oriented progra.                              Provide special bltuxet-
wrGoae prograa.                                                                     mry  t toccat ion In thle
Agreed with tile Uorld lank on the            1992/91 ixlgfet for tac                                           X
cotntents of tiae socilely ori nteal          Socially orkiented
_proura.                                      _proagram  for 1991/92.









IMAGING
Report No:      14556
Type: PCR



