Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2352 SL
                                                             (Amendment)
                            Agreement Amending
                       Development Credit Agreement
                      (áreconstruction Import Credit)
                                  between
                         REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                           Dated April 15, 1992
                                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT NUMBER 2352 SL
                                                              (Amendment)
                            AGREEMENT AMENDING
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 15, 1992, between the REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a
Development Credit Agreement (Reconstruction Import Credit), dated April 15,
1992 (the Development Credit Agreement) for the purpose of assisting in the
financing of the program referred to in Recital (A) of the Preamble to the
Development Credit Agreement (the Program);
      (B)   the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of the Program by increasing the amount
made available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to two hundred twenty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
220,000); and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                       Amendments to the Development
                             Credit Agreement
Page  2
      Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended by:
      (a)   the deletion: (i) of the word "and" at the end of Subsection (g)
and the addition next after the ensuing Subsection (h) of the following new
Subsection: "(i) "Amending Agreement" means the Agreement Amending the
Development Credit Agreement (Reconstruction Import Credit) between the
Borrower and the Association, dated April 15, 1992."; and (ii) the period
at the end of Subsection (h) and the substitution therefor of a semi-colon
and the word "and".; and
      (b)   the deletion in Subsection (b) of the amount of "SDR 19,700,000"
and the substitution therefor of the amount of "SDR 19,920,000".
      Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is
amended to read as follows:
            "Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
      on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
      Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
      equivalent to thirty one million six hundred twenty thousand Special
      Drawing Rights (SDR 31,620,000) (the Credit), which includes an
      original amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty one
      million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 31,400,000)
      and an additional amount in various currencies equivalent to two
      hundred twenty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 220,000) (the
      Additional Financing)."
      Section 1.03. Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is
amended by the deletion:
      (a)   in paragraph 1 thereof of the amount of: (i) "SDR 27,760,000"
allocated to Category (1) in the table of withdrawal of proceeds of the
Credit and the substitution therefor of the amount of "SDR 27,980,000"; and
(ii) "SDR 31,400,000", the original amount of the Credit, and the
substitution therefor of the amount of "SDR 31,620,000", the new amount of
the Credit;
      (b)   in paragraph 5 thereof of the amount of "SDR 19,700,000" and the
substitution therefor of the amount of "SDR 19,920,000"; and
      (c)   in paragraph 6 thereof of the amount of "SDR 25,600,000" and the
substitution therefor of the amount "SDR 25,820,000."
      Section 1.04. The following paragraph is added next after paragraph
7 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement:
            "8. After a date twelve months from the date of the Amending
      Agreement, no withdrawals shall be made and no commitment shall be
      entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in
      respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
      Additional Financing. At any time after such date, the Association
      may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the
      Additional Financing from the Credit Account or any part thereof."
                                ARTICLE II
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 2.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until the
Development Credit Agreement has become effective and evidence satisfactory
to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that the
execution and delivery of this Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
      Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
Section 2.01 of this Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association
an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable
to the Association showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with 
Page  3
its terms.
      Section 2.03. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Agreement.
      Section 2.04. If this Agreement shall not have come into force and
effect by a date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement, this
Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate,
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this
Section. If this Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this
Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and
effect, as if this Agreement had not been executed.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
                  By /s/ W. B. Wright
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice-President
                                                                   Africa
