Document of the World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 20669
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
PERU
JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
(LOAN 4256-PE)
June 30, 2000
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Bolivia, Paraguay and Peru Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
The World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit = Nuevo Sol (SI.)
Exchange Rate US$1.00 = S/3.49 (June 2000)
FISCAL YEAR OF THE GOVERNMENT OF PERU
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AM          Academia de la Magistratura (Judicial Academy)
CNM         Consejo Nacional de la Magistratura (National Judicial Council)
DP          Defensoria del Pueblo (Ombudsman)
INDECOPI  Instituto de Defensa de la Competencia y la Propiedad Industrial
(Competition and Consumer Protection Agency)
OCMA        Oficina de Control de la Magistratura (Office of Judicial Control)
TC          Tribunal Constitutional (Constitutional Tribunal)
Vice President           David de Ferranti
Country Director         Isabel Guerrero
Lead Specialist          Geoffrey Shepherd
Task Manager             David Varela



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
PERU
JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
1.    Background. This is the Project Completion Note for the Judicial Reform Project
financed by a Bank loan of US$22,500,000. Upon the Borrower's request this Loan was
cancelled on September 23, 1998 and never entered into effect.
2.    On December 17, 1997, the Borrower and the Bank signed the Loan Agreement
following a board approval of the loan on December 4, 1997. On March 16, 1998, in
consideration to the passage of controversial legislation regarding the powers of the CNM, the
Bank decided to extend the effectiveness deadline for six months. The statute in question had
restricted CNM powers in disciplinary matters and, as a consequence, made unlikely the
achievement of a critical Project objective, as stated in the Policy Letter. On September 23, 1998,
after a new extension was granted by the Bank in order to review amending legislation approved
by the Peruvian Congress, the Government requested the cancellation of the total amount of the
Loan and announced that it would continue the reform process with its own resources.
3.    Project objectives and components. The overall objective of the Project was to assist
the Borrower's justice sector agencies in improving performance by enhancing, within the
framework and terms of an agreed Policy Letter, its access, quality, independence, efficiency and
integrity. Specific components aimed at: (a) modernizing the administrative structure and
operation of the Judiciary; (b) improving the overall performance of selected judges in selected
judicial districts; (c) strengthening the Consejo Nacional de la Magistratura (CNM) and
consolidaiing and improving its merit-based system of appointment, advancement and removal
of judges; (d) strengthening the Academia de la Magistratura (AM) and enhancing the
professional competence of civil, labor and tax judges in selected judicial districts; (e)
strengthening Oficina de Control de la Magistratura (OCMA)'s disciplinary system to enhance
accountability and integrity of judges; (f) developing and strengthening alternative dispute
resolution methods; (g) strengthening the institutional development of Defensoria del Pueblo
(DP); and (h) strengthening the capacity of civil society to analyze, monitor and demand judicial
performance.
4.    Project risks and safeguards. The risk of potential instability in the project environment
had been identified during Project preparation as a highly sensitive and complex matter. An
effective Judiciary requires to function free from interference in order to ensure impartiality and
credibility of judicial decisions. Project documents recognized that there was no strong tradition
of an independent Judiciary in Peru as in many other developing countries, although important--
but limited-- developments in restoring some balance of power were signaled by the
establishment and operation of the CNM and the DP.
5.    The project intended to strengthen the independence of the Judiciary and other sector
agencies at different levels. First, the project aimed at supporting the CNM's move towards a
merit-based system ofjudicial recruitment and removals; to this end, a coordination mechanism
was to be established between the AM and the CNM, and the principles of transparency,
openness, and competition were agreed on the AM's training prograrn for aspiring judges and
technical evaluation of tenured judges, as spelled out in the Policy Letter. Second, to strengthen
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



independence in decision-making, the project would have supported training efforts of the AM to
enhance the independent role of the judge and reaffirm a "culture" of independence. Third, the
project, mainly through an access fund, was expected to facilitate the development of a civil
society constituency in support of judicial reform as a means to demand and pressure for
sustainable institutional changes. Fourth, other project interventions such as improvement in the
administration of the courts would have indirectly strengthened independence by improving the
standing of the Judiciary in the community.
6.    Lessons learned. The Project was prepared during an "emergency period" of the
Peruvian Judiciary and tried to assist in the development of "normal conditions". Prior to 1996
an autonomous body comprising only.judges and representatives of the bar associations managed
the administrative affairs of the Judiciary. In 1996, the Peruvian Congress established an
Executive Commission as an interim administrative arrangement to foster a reform process
during an "emergency period" that has been extended several times. This arrangement, for most
practical purposes, suspended the operation of the Judiciary's Organic Law.
7.    Other institutions in the sector had been similarly weakened through "emergency
measures": the CNM was prevented from appointing or promoting judges by an Act of Congress
that required the AM to conduct competency tests; another Act subjected the AM's management
to the Executive Commission, in practice depriving the entity of any autonomy; the Tribunal
Constitucional (TC) ceased to be operational after the impeachment of three judges; and the
Attorney General's office was declared by another Law under a reform process that transferred
the incumbent's powers to a separate executive commission. Briefly stated, the main innovations
of the 1993 Constitution on the judicial side (the TC, the CNM and the AM) were all limited in
the free exercise of their powers. The restriction of the disciplinary powers of the CNM was only
a further step within an established pattern.
8.    The overall assessment of the achievements of the reform process during the "emergency
period" is highly qualified. In spite of some progress on purely technical matters, other aspects
remain open to question. Key lessons learned by the Bank's experience in judicial reform were
not reflected in the initiatives that preceded and followed the cancellation of the Bank's Loan:
(a)   "A reform process driven by solutions rather than a profound analysis of the
problems faced or the objectives sought is prone to failures": during the "emergency period" in
Peru the quantity of innovations has replaced a vision of what was being pursued, if indeed that
vision existed;
(b)   "Judges' involvement is essential for the success of a reform process"; in Peru,
although some of the activities attempted to involve the affected judges in their implementation,
for the most part judicial participation was not invited - and certainly not at the policy-making
level;
(c)   "The reform process should be articulated around a flexible timeframe that
includes short, medium and long-term strategies": since the beginning, the timeframes of the
Peruvian Executive Commission were unrealistic, which probably accounts for the lack of
reliable reports on accomplishments;



(d)   "The improvement of human resource quality in the Judiciary depends on far
more than turnover": in the Peruvian case, unless the conditions for recruiting and retaining staff
are improved, the replacements are not likely to be much different than their predecessors;
(e)   "Unless the institutional environment encourages improved performance, even
those prepared to undertake it are likely to be discouraged and fall into the traditional habits": in
Peru, uncertainties in appointments, unmet expectations as to higher salaries, and lack of clarity
as to perfornance standards have negatively affected morale and undercut efforts to improve
performance;
(f)   "Institutional reform is unlikely without institutional leadership": the Peruvian
Executive Commission has not encouraged the emergence of new leaders within the Judiciary
and thus the internalization of the reform; and
(g)   "Pockets of excellence" are not enough to solve systemic dysfunctions and may
have unexpected effects on the overall system": in Peru, the creation of alternative organizations
(ranging from DP to Instituto de Defensa de la Competencia y la Propiedad Industrial
[INDECOPI]) has reduced the Judiciary's overall importance; this may also decrease the interest
of external actors in supporting any further change.
9.    Although the loan was never effective, the assessment of the "emergency period" within
which the Project was developed may provide guidance for sector interventions in Peru and other
developing countries. The main lesson learned by the Bank was that key steps towards the
consolidation of a stable framework for the reform process should be taken by sector authorities
prior to any Bank-financed operation; the expectations of promoting stability while catalyzing
the reform process in certain areas (particularly independence) with the incentive of some short
and medium term investment proved unrealistic. Effective measures have to be taken in advance
of project preparation to ensure that broad consensus among sector authorities and other
stakeholders would support the Project after Board approval.



