Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17137-PE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PERU
JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
October 27, 1997
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Country Management Unit 6
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Nuevo Sol (IS)
US$1 =/S 2.65050003 (August 5, 1997)
/S 1 = US$ 0.3772873 (August 5, 1997)
FISCAL YEAR
Jawuary 1 - December 31
Abbreviations
ADR            -  Alternative Dispute Resolution
AM             -  Academia de la Magistratura
CCJ            -  Consejo de Coordinacion Judicial (Judicial Coordination Council)
CNM            -  Consejo Nacional de la Magistratura
DP             -  Defensoria del Pueblo (Ombudsman)
JP             -  Juez de Paz (Justice of Peace)
1DB            -  InterAmerican Development Bank
IFC            -  International Finance Corporation
INEI           -  Instituto Nacional de Estadistica
LOPJ           -  Ley Organica del Poder Judicial
NGOs           -  Non-Governmental Organizations
OCMA           -   Oficina de Control de los Magistrados
PCU            -  Project Coordination Unit
PPU            -  Project Preparation Unit
UNDP           -  United Nations Development Program
USAID          -  United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:                     Shahid Javed Burld
Director, Country Management Unit:   Isabel Guerrero
Director, Sector Management Unit:   Guillermo Perry
Task Manager                        Izumi Ohno / Roberto Laver



PERU
JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Republic of Peru
Implementing Agencies: The Judiciary (through its Executive Commission and Oficina de Control de
los Magistrados), Academia de la Magistratura, Consejo Nacional de la
Magistratura, and Defensoria del Pueblo
Beneficiaries:         The Judiciary; Consejo Nacional de la Magistratura, Defensoria del Pueblo,
judges and judicial personnel, general public
Poverty:               Not Applicable
Loan Amount:           US$22.5 million equivalent
Terms:                 Repayable in 17 years, on annuity payments, including a four-year grace period,
at standard variable interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollars single currency
loans.
Commitment Fee:        0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:       Grant to implementing agencies
Net Present Value:     Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: P-17137-PE
Map:                   IBRD 26572R
Project Identification
Number:                PE-PA40107






PERU
PROPOSED JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I.      THE JUDICIAL SECTOR  ..........................................                                  1
A.      Background ........................................1
B.      Structure of the Judicial Sector .......................................2
C.      Issues ........................................3
Independence and Accountability .......................................4
Efficiency .......................................6
Access ........................................9
Professional Competence and Integrity ....................................... 11
D.      Judicial Reform Program and Recent Initiatives ............      ........................... 16
E.      Rationale for Bank Involvement ....................................... 16
F.      Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Experience .............        .......................... 17
II. THE PROJECT ......... 18
A.      Project Objectives ....................................... 18
B.      Project Description ....................................... 18
Component 1: Judicial Administration ....................................... 19
Component 2: Judicial Selection, Evaluation and Training .......................................   21
Component 3: Access to Justice ....................................... 22
C.      Project Costs and Financing ....................................... 23
HI.     PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION  ........................                 ................. 25
A.      Status of Preparation ......................... 25
B.      InstitutionalArangements ......................... 25
C.   Procurement .........................                                                       26
D.      Disbursements and Financing ......................... 28
E.      Accounts and Audits ......................... 30
F.      Monitoring Performance and Reporting ......................... 30
IV      ENVIRONMENTAL REOUIREMENTS .................................. 31
V.      PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ..................................  31
A.      Benefits ..................................  31
B.      Project Risks and Safeguards ..................................  33
C.      Participatory Approach and Sustainability .................................. 34
VI.    AGREED ACTIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS ..................................                             36



Tables and Charts
Table 1        Costs of Selected Civil Judicial Procedures in Peru
Table 2        Monthly Salaries in the Judicial Sector
Table 3        Estimated Project Cost
Table 4        Procurement Arrangement
Table 5        Procurement Prior Review and SOE Thresholds
Table 6        Disbursement Arrangements
Table 7        Projected Disbursement by Fiscal Year
Table 8        Participatory Approach
Table 9        Number of Chambers and Courts, and Judges 1995
Table 10       Caseloads Distribution by District 1995 (nationwide)
Chart 1        Caseloads Distribution by District 1995 (selected districts)
Chart 2        Public Trust on the Judiciary
Chart 3        Judicial Process Time
Annexes
Annex 1        Statement of Policy and Objectives of the Reform
Annex 2        Key Monitonng Indicators
Annex 3        Judicial Performance Indicators
Annex 4        Organization of the Judiciary
Annex 5        Academia de la Magistratura
Annex 6        Consojo Nacional de la Magistratura
Annex 7        Defensoria del Pueblo
Annex 8        Pilot Program for New Court Organuzation
Annex 9        Project Cost Summary
Documents in Proiect Files
1.     Peru: Judicial Sector Assessment (Green Cover), November 30, 1994, LA3PS, World Bank.
2.     BTORs: Preparation, Pre-Appraisal, and Appraisal missions, World Bank
3.     Project Implementation Plan, Proyecto sobre Administracion de Justicia a ser Presentado al Banco Mundial,
OTPCI, Peru, 1997.
4.     Manual de Operaciones, OTPCI, Peru, 1997.
5.     Access Fund Operational Guidelines (final draft)
6.     Proceedings of Workshops: Reforma Judicial, Accesso a la Justicia, OTPCI, Peru, 1996
7.     Plan Estrategico de laModemizacion y Reforma, Comision Ejecutiva del Poder Judicial, May 1997
8.     Reform andModernization of the Judiciary in Peru, Comision Ejecutiva del Poder Judicial, June 1997
9.     Plan Operativo-GerenciaEjecutiva de Proyectos, Poder Judicial, June 1997
10.    Evaluacion Economica de laReforma Judicial en laRepublica de Peru, INVERTEC IGT, July 1996.
11.    Plan de Reforma del Poder Judicial, INVERTEC IGT, July and October, 1996
12.    Inforrme de Consultoria Proyecto Administracion de Justicia en elPeru, March 1996, CDJ/CPU
This report: i based on the fin.in..gs oWo:Ban p        a.
= ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....                               .  .. ..
7...EJ"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. -:S               .......it
.1 16    -le. misions, cositef Izumi01mm ta   .aa..).R.et...e (cNs   aner.. RbroaLa
P ....dn    re        in. Peru) prordd contfinuedsuppot   g eac  iso        e
.   ..... .    ..........
...... .: .:X.                   :V -    ...
..........M.iri Ezabeth Mieat, umaro' ....  Arqupeo,Alero apaA iaaa~  an Laren deAs`6oino



Staff Appraisal Report
PERU
JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
L THE JUDICUIL SECTOR
A. Background
1. 1   Peru in the past seven years has seen dramatic reforms in economic policy for growth and social
development, and changes in the definition of the role of the State required to increase government's capacity
to govern. Since President Fujimori first took office in July 1990, the Government of Peruj has pursued a
program of economic reform that is remarkable for both its depth and its speed, at the same time that it has
created an atmosphere of domestic tranquillity. This economic program has included trade liberalization, a
shift in the ownership of state-owned enterprises, financial sector adjustment, labor market deregulation, and
incipient rationalization of central public administration.
1.2   Economic reform and recovery are all the more remarkable given the consequences of a decade of
decline and macroeconomic mismanagement in the 1980s. These consequences are evident in the decline of
public spending, relative to GDP; in the inefficiency of public expenditure allocation, and particularly in the
disinvestments in health and education; in the decay of infrastructure and the poor quality of its maintenance;
in the proliferation of public sector agencies with overlapping responsibilities and limited financial
accountability; and in increasing public debt and pension liabilities.
1.3   The reforms and economic recovery of the past five years have occurred within the context of a
redefinition of the role of the State, codified in the new Constitution adopted in 1993 which narrows the
state's mandate away from productive activities and reorients government's role in the delivery of key public
services. To date, institutional reform and restructuring have taken particular aim at the redefinition of the
regulatory framework, the alleviation of poverty, and the improvement of conditions for private sector
participation in economic growth. However, Peru's public institutions remain fragile and the issue of
institutional sustainability is of paramount importance.
1.4   In recognition of this fragility, the government has committed itself to a program of public sector
modernization. With the re-election of President Fujimori, it has become clear that part of the agenda for his
second term is the institutional consolidation of economic reforms to assure that progress made to date is
sustained. In this context, and as was stressed by the President himself on various occasions, the need for
public sector reform and reform of the "rules of the game" for private sector development, including judicial
reform, are imperatives.
1.5    A modem State requires an effective rule of law, including modem laws and an adequate justice
system. These are indispensable conditions to create a favorable investment climate, alleviate poverty, and
incorporate all social sectors into the productive process. This will not only ensure the efficiency and stability
of economic transactions but also the promotion of employment, income and standard of living of the poorest
people.



2
1.6    Substantial updating of laws and regulations governing economic transactions has occurred in Peru in
recent years. However, as pointed out in the Bank's private sector assessment, serious shortcomings exist in
the application and interpretation of laws by the courts'. The judicial sector largely fails to apply and interpret
laws in an equitable, effective and efficient manner. Surveys and reports confirm the reality of a judiciary with
unpredictable and low quality outcomes, unreasonable times to disposition, low levels of accessibility and
extensive politicization and corruption.
1.7    Thus, the Peruvian judiciary is behind the times. Profound reforms are required in the justice system
in order to facilitate the consolidation of economic reforms, encourage the productivity of enterprises and
foster the integration of the poorest people into the productive process. Without a solid and respected justice
system capable of guaranteeing in practice security of person and property, the aspirations of people,
especially the poor, to participate in the benefits of economic and social opportunity cannot be fulfilled and
private sector development is discouraged. In fact, in a private sector assessment carried out by IFC in
February 1993, the judiciary and security concerns were singled out as the two most important political and
institutional constraints for the development of the private sector in the country.3
B. Structure of the Judicial Sector
1.8    Peru follows a traditional tripartite model of government with three autonomous branches of
government (Executive, Legislative and Judicial). Like most other Latin American countries, however, this
constitutional equality is not realized in practice and the government is characterized by a strong Executive
Branch and a weak Judicial Branch. The judicial sector in Peru comprises the following: the Judiciary,
formed by the Supreme Court and other inferior courts; the Ministry of Justice; the Public Ministry, the
National Council of the Magistracy; the Academy of the Magistracy; the Office of the Public Defender; and
the Constitutional Tribunal Follows a brief summary of each institution.
1.9    The Judiciary comprises the following: the Supreme Court, Superior Courts or Courts of Appeal,
Specialized Courts or Courts (or Juzgados) of First Instance, and Justices of the Peace (both professional and
lay judges). The court system is distributed loosely according to the defined political jurisdictions of the
country. There are 24 departments (political jurisdictions) and 24 judicial districts, roughly correspondent,
and two additional districts in preparation (Cono Sur and Chosica). The Supreme Court serves the whole
nation, while there is a Superior Court in each judicial district. Under the Superior Courts there are first
instance courts and a small number of "professional" Justices of the Peace. Currently there are about 1,500
World Bank (1994) Peru: A Private Sector Assessment, Grey Cover Report Latin America and the Canbbean Region,
Country Department L Country Operations Division.
2  World Bank (1994) Peru: Judicial Sector Assessment, Green Cover Report; Latin America and the Canbbean Region,
Country Department m, Public Secctor Moderniation and Private Sector Development Division. Also, during 1992, with
the financal assistance of UNDP, the government established a Commission on the Integral Restuctrng of the Judiciary
and undertook a number of diagnostic studies and prepared reform proporsals.
3 International Financial Corporation (1993), A Private Sector Assessment-The Constraints to Private Sector Development in
Peru: An IFC Perspective



3
professional judges throughout the country. "Lay" justices of peace amount to about 4,300. They serve as a
real conciliatory justice for small claims. (see Annex 4)
1.10   The Academy of the Magistracy (Academia de la Magistratura, or AM) is a separate unit within the
Judiciary charged with the education and training of judges and prosecutors at all levels. Its Charter specifies
three distinct purposes of training: (i) prepare aspiring judges and prosecutors for judicial duties; (ii) upgrade
skills and knowledge of existing judges eligible for and seeking promotion; and (iii) provide continuing legal
education for all judges. (See Annex 5)
1.11 The National Council of the Magistracy (Consejo Nacional de la Magistratura, or CNM) is a separate
institution emanated from the 1993 Constitution. Its mandate is to select, appoint, ratify and remove judges
and prosecutors at all levels. With clear autonomy in the namning of judges, the CNM is a key element in
assuring the independence of the Judiciary. The CNM directly appoints all judges, without any presidential or
congressional intervention. Also, the CNM is responsible for ratifying judges every seven years and is
endowed with the capacity to remove Supreme Court judges. (See Annex 6)
1.12   The Office of the Public Defender (Defensoria del Pueblo, or DP) is a constitutional level ombudsman
charged with the defense of the fundamental rights of citizens and the supervision of compliance of the public
sector with its legally defined responsibilities. An autonomous body, elected for a five-year term by
Congress, the DP is required to submit an annual report to Congress. The first DP was appointed by
Congress in April 1996, and initiated its activity in September 1996. (See Annex 7)
1.13   The Tribunal of Constitutional Guarantees (TCG) adjudicates constitutional issues. It also has
jurisdiction over legal actions invoking constitutionally-guaranteed actions whereby a citizen may allege the
violation of a constitutional right by the authorities or by another private citizen. After some delays, all the
seven positions were appointed by Congress in June 1996, and the TCG started its activity in October 1996.
1.14   The Ministry of Justice provides the link between the Executive and other branches of Government
on all matters related to the judicial sector. As such, it is the Executive's arm for interacting with the
Judiciary. The Public Ministry represents judicial processes ofthe society. Criminal prosecution involves the
bulk of the cases involving the Public Ministry.
C. Issues
1.15  The judicial system in Peru largely shows an inadequate performance when measured against
basic standards and principles of independence and accountability, access, efficiency and professional
competence and integrity. This results in a system with very low public trust and confidence. This has
not always been the case. It is more accurately a declining trend particularly in the last thirty years.
Follows an overview of the main elements of the judicial system and their performance. The comments
below focus on the civil and commercial side of the justice sector, but many of them may apply to other
parts of the sector.



4
Independence and Accountability
1.16  Judicial Ampointment, Compensation and Evaluation. Peru's basic laws on the Judiciary
(the Constitution of Peru and the Organic Law of the Judiciary) provide that the Judiciary is an
autonomous power of the State, independent of the Executive and the Legislature. Further, the
Constitution itself provides safeguards for judicial independence such as the prohibition of interference
by other branches of the government in judicial proceedings or from exercising judicial functions,
prohibition of involuntary transfers, specified tenure and an adequate salary. Despite such structural
independence, like many other Latin American countries, Peru has not enjoyed a tradition of judicial
independence as reflected, in the pervasive politicization of the appointment and removal of its judges as
well as the constant low budgets and salaries assigned to the judicial sector.
1.17  Many judges today are without tenure. Judicial tenure has been more the exception than the rule
in Peru where three purges of the Judiciary have occurred within the last thirty years. The last purge
came with the autogolpe of April 1992, when virtually all judges and prosecutors were dismissed. A
process to restore judicial tenure commenced in 1993 with the appointment by the Constitutional
Congress of Democracy. First an interim Jury of Honor, comprised of five well known and respected
jurists. The Jury of Honor functioned for two years, until the CNM became operational, and in such
period appointed the Supreme Court members and the appellate and first instance judges and
prosecutors in the judicial district of Lima.
1.18  The CNM  has represented an important step towards a fully transparent and merit-based
appointment system. In October of 1995, it established guidelines of public competition for the
selection of the superior judges and prosecutors. By March 1996, it had completed the appointments of
superior judges and prosecutors nationwide. It has now to complete the appointment of vacancies at
the trial level. There is a general recognition that the CNM has acted with objectivity in the recent
appointments. Mechanisms have been provided for transparency and participation of the public. At the
same time, however, there is agreement among members of the CNM, judges and experts that the
system of selection, including public examinations, needs to be improved to better ensure that the most
qualified lawyers are appointed to the bench at all levels.
1.19 Because of efforts by the interim Jury of Honor and the CNM, about half of the vacancies have
been filled during the past two years. Nevertheless, the CNM faces the task of appointing at least 500
judges of first instance. It expects to carry out the appointment process in stages in close coordination
with the AM. Besides this emergency task, the CNM will need to fill the vacancies that occur as natural
course (about 30 judges and 30 prosecutors per year) and also establish a system of periodic evaluation
to be linked to the ratification process. To assist the CNM in fulfilling the emergency task, Congress
recently approved changes to the Organic Law of the CNM, implementing the constitutional mandate
that candidates be trained by the AM as prerequisite to judicial selection and appointment. This is
certainly a positive step toward enhancing the functional coordination between the CNM and the AM in
the area of judicial selection; at the same time, it has become urgently necessary for the AM to develop
training programs for aspiring judges, based on technical criteria compatible with CNM's selection
criteria.



5
1.20  Not only tenure is elusive, but judicial salaries are also extremely low in absolute and relative
terms. They are about one-third to one- half of the equivalent salaries in the private sector. In addition,
they are not in line with the legal standards. Indeed, the Organic Law of the Judiciary provides that a
superior judge must earn 80% of the salary of a Supreme Court judge and that a first instance judge
must earn 70% of the same salary. Currently a Supreme Court judge earns approximately US$4,500
while a superior court judge earns approximately US$1,800 (including bonus) and a first instance judge
earns approximately US$1,300 (including bonus) Administrative personnel in the Judiciary also receive
very low salaries. Competitive salaries are a critical element of ensuring judicial independence.
Although this issue cannot be discussed separately from the generic problem facing public sector
salaries, it is true that the present salary level is a disincentive to attract more qualified personnel and to
ensure judicial independence. It is important to increase judicial salaries as a sign of the government's
commitment to judicial reform. During 1996, the Judiciary has made its own efforts to improve
economic incentives of judges. In January 1996 a scheme of productivity bonus was introduced by
using the Judiciary's own income, as a part of administrative modernization initiatives (para. 1.33).
Also, to strengthen its financial base, measures have been taken to improve the current fee collection
system and rationalize administrative and auxiliary court personnel.  As the result, the level of
productivity bonus was doubled during the recent six months (see Table 2). The Judiciary authorities
are currently investigating the feasibility and ways to further increase economic incentives for judicial
personnel.
1.21  Discitlinarv System. The disciplinary system for judges has been largely ineffective. There are
a number of sanction levels for judges including warning, fine, suspension, separation and removal from
office. The CNM has the power to remove judges while the Office for the Supervision of the
Magistracy (Oficina de Control de la Magistratura, or OCMA) of the Judiciary imposes the other
sanctions. However, to date, there is no systematic system for monitoring and evaluating judges'
performance, except that the OCMA has been functioning to receive and analyze public complaints of
judicial decisions and/or processes. Recently, district-level disciplinary commissions were established to
strengthen the OCMA's supervision capacity through decentralized management. District disciplinary
commissions are headed by respective Superior Court Presidents and with the participation of various
levels ofjudges (as fixed-term assignment for OCMA) in the districts.
1.22  Budeetary Resources.  The political environment in Peru has traditionally neglected the
financial support of the Judiciary. The previous 1979 Constitution established that the Judiciary should
receive a minimum of 2 percent of the national budget. In spite of such constitutional provision, this
share of funding was not received during the first 11 years after the enactment such Constitution. The
situation improved during 1990-93, when the average allocation of the national budget exceeded 2%
(peaking in 1990 at 2.45%). However, this ratio declined again in 1994-95. The actual Constitution
does not set a minimum share of the national budget to be assigned to the Judiciary.
1.23  The 1996 budget initially allocated to the Judiciary was 288 million soles (including 19 million
soles of the Judiciary's proper income), only 1.3% of the national budget. However, the Government
later authorized a 50% budgetary increase (by 144 million soles or approximately US$60 million) to
specifically finance the emergency program for administrative modernization that was initiated by the
Comision Ejecutiva in November 1995. For 1997, the budget allocated to the judiciary amounts to 315
million soles (including 22.5 million soles of proper income), 1.4% of the national budget.



6
Efficiency
1.24   An imperative area for reform is the modernization of the operational and functional aspects of
the Judiciary. It is urgent to improve the efficiency in the sector administration, from the viewpoint of
the management of the overall judicial branch as well as case administration.
1.25 Administration of the Courts. Since 1991, some efforts have been made to improve the
overall administration of the courts, including administrative decentralization on a pilot basis, improved
planning, and the development of operational manuals covering budget, accounting, treasury, personnel
administration, and procurement etc. Although progress has been made, these measures were not
sufficient to achieve substantial improvements in the supply of court services.
1.26   An important step taken to improve the administration of courts was the separation of the
administrative functions from the judicial functions at the Supreme Court level. In 1992, the Organic
Law of the Judiciary was modified to provide for a Board (Consejo Ejecutivo) with responsibility for
the overall admninistration of the court system, and a judicial management office (Gerencia General de
Administracion) with professionals in the diverse areas of administration. Previously, the responsibility
to administer the Judiciary and its revenues had fallen to the Supreme Court justices who had neither
time, the training nor the inclination to properly manage the organization or the finances of the system.
This confusion of management and judicial duties resulted in very inefficient administration of the
courts.
1.27 The Board or Consejo Ejecutivo originally comprised five members: the President of the
Supreme Court, a Supreme Court justice selected by the plenary, the Chief of the Office of Supervision
of the Magistracy, a Superior Court judge elected by the Presidents of the Superior Courts and a
representative of the Bar Associations. This Board, now termed Comision Ejecutiva, has been
temporarily reduced to three Supreme Court members (the Presidents of three chambers of the Supreme
Court) and a general manager (Secretario Ejecutivo) by laws 26546 and 26623.4  The Secretario
Ejecutivo is the technical and administrative arm of the Judiciary. Before November 1995, this office
carried no voting power in the Board, but since then, it not only has such power but also retains
authority to decide budgetary allocations and expenditures. It was officially explained that this move
toward the limited membership of the policy-making body and the appointment of a manager with full
delegation of administrative authority is an attempt to improve administrative efficiency and implement
modernization of the Judiciary during the emergency reform period (1996-98). Upon assuming the
responsibility, the Comision Ejecutiva and the Secretario Ejecutivo adopted a series of measures to
address deep-seated problems in the sector, e.g., in the areas of the management of human and financial
resources, statistics and management information system, court automation, judicial process, courtroom
organization and infrastructure (paras. 1.32-1.33).
4  Law 26546 (November 1995) suspended the Consejo Ejecutivo and other administrative units and established a temporary
governing body with a one-year reform mandate-i.e.,the Comision Ejecutiva as a policy-making organ and an Secretario
Ejecutivo vwith full delegation of adminisve authority. In June 1996, such mandate was extended until end-1998 (law
26623).



7
1.28 Financial Management. As previously noted, the Judiciary has been assigned a low priority in
the government's budget. Apart from the need for higher budget allocations, the Judiciary also must
make its own efforts to strengthen the financial base by improving budget planning and execution,
establishing a financial control system, and reinforcing its resource generating capacity. There is limited
use in the Judiciary of mechanisms to raise separate resources (from the charging of fees) and a
reluctance to implement such charges. In 1996, virtually all resources come directly from the treasury,
equal to approximately 93% of the total Judiciary budget (288 million soles of initial allocation). At
present, user fees are only charged on civil cases above 2,200 soles, while other claims and suits (such
as criminal, labor, agriculture, family and mixed) are free of charges. (Civil cases account for about
51% of the total cases; and those cases below 2,200 soles account for about 10% of the total civil
cases.)5 This system translates into real inequities as regards the treasury and public spending. The
Judiciary is a costly service for the state and thus private parties should contribute to its maintenance
unless there is a clear hindrance to access to justice. To achieve economic independence, the Judiciary
needs to strengthen its capacity to seek the resources required for meeting its judicial responsibilities,
use those resources prudently, and account for their use.
1.29 Case Administration. Regarding the processing of cases, substantial case delays and backlogs
are reported to exist in the courts in Peru. On average, a case under ordinary proceedings takes 3 years
(compared to a maximum of 300 days established in the code of civil procedure), and a case under
summary proceedings in the first instance takes 270 days (compared to 60 days prescribed in the
code)6. Fewer cases are resolved in a year than the total number of cases that enter the system in that
year. According to the most recent survey conducted by the Judiciary with the support of INEI, in
1995, 749,216 cases were filed while only 592,589 cases were resolved in the whole judicial system
(except for the Supreme Court); and at end-1995, there were 457,749 cases backlogged. In the Lima
district where one-third of the total cases are concentrated, 141,864 cases were backlogged at end-1995
(see Chart 1).
1.30 The above situation results, on the supply side, in large measure from an inefficient
administrative system for handling cases with the following main characteristics. First, the judicial
process is based on a judge-specific administrative system; every court has its own administrative office,
staffed by legal and administrative clerks. There is no centralized caseload management system in the
court system. Second, there is confusion of judicial and managerial duties. Judges must play a dual role
in their daily duties as dispensers of justice and administrators of their own courts. Judges are involved
in personnel management, the management of financial resources, the management of judicial deposits
and coordination of process servers and clerks. This duality is a major cause of court backlogs. Third,
there exists no standard guidelines on critical issues such as the numbering of case files, the
determination of the number and location of registries on court actions, methods for handling exhibits
and records security. Lastly, there is no reliable information system on which to base decisions related
to both the administration of the system and the management of the flow of cases (e.g., financial and
personnel statistics, jurisprudence and case statistics, access to case management information).
5 StUdyby GERPRO S.A., for the Judiciary, 1996.
6 ditto.



8
1.31   Physical Infrastructure. Over the past years, the quality of the physical infrastructure within
the Judiciary has deteriorated and failed to keep pace with the expansion of the population and the
judicial system. The preliminary assessment at selected judicial districts suggests that regarding central
buildings where appellate courts, part of the first instance courts (most of the specialized courts and a
small number of Juzgados de Paz Letrados), and administrative offices are located, the main problems
are: (i) the inefficient utilization of facilities due to lack of overall planning of functions and available
space, and (ii) outdated facilities. There is a lack of modem office technology, information and
communications, modem archives, and security safeguards. Increased caseloads, security issues,
modem court technology and court organization, the movement toward oral hearings, and the
decentralization of administrative functions are creating a series of design problems that must be
addressed. Furthermore, in the case of courts for Jueces de Paz Letrados, the centralization of court
facilities is a serious problem, and there is a need to decentralize these courts in order to improve
access for a large segment of the population.
1.32 Recent Reforms. The Judiciary has recently undertaken initiatives to remedy this dismal picture.
Immediately assuming the responsibility in end-November 1995, the Comision Ejecutiva, and their team
elaborated a strategic action plan for 1996 and initiated a series of new and bold initiatives in the areas of
human resource management, financial management, modernization of court organization and process
optiiization, statistical updates, backlog reduction, improvement in institutional image, and infrastructure
improvement. The reform objectives spelled out in the strategic action plan are: to lay the grounds for a
irreversible modernization and optimization of the administrative support system of the Judiciary to achieve
effective, timely, and fair justice administration; to introduce efficient administrative and judicial processes,
which should be implemented by qualified and disciplined personnel, with the support of infonnation and
technology; and to improve the image and the political and economic autonomy of the Judiciary.
1.33  The major actions taken by the Judiciary authorities to date include the following:
* Human resource management: (i) modifying the existing employment practices to increase
transparency, e.g., by terminating judges' family members occupying clerical positions and prohibiting
the employment of non-salaried clerical staff, (ii) introducing a scheme of productivity bonus by
using the Judiciary's own income; (iii) defining the number of administrative positions required and
developing job descriptions, reducing the redundancy of administrative personnel through a voluntary
retirement program, and recruiting new personnel through competitive examinations; (iv) advancing
administrative decentralization by nominating General Managers at each district, selected through
competitive examination; (v) introducing the private sector labor regime for administrative and
auxiliary personnel to increase the flexibility in labor contracts; and (vi) reinforcing a disciplinary
system by strengthening the Oficina de Control de los Magistrados of the Judiciary and establishing
district-level disciplinary commissions chaired by respective Superior Court Presidents.
* Financial management: (i) reviewing the existing fee structures and examining options for
strengthening the Judiciary's income base; and (ii) analyzing the feasibility of contracting out selected
administrative and judicial services (e.g., cleaning, security, logistics, notification) to increase the
efficiency and quality of these services. The authorities plan to create a superintendency of legal
services to supervise the implementation; the superintendency would be also responsible for fee
collection.



9
* Reorganization and process optimization: (i) introducing standard formats regarding court
administration and developing operational manuals; (ii) developing a new model of court organization
(e.g., 'sistema corporativo' or the creation of a centralzed unit for registry and document processing)
to change the current judge-specific administrative system into a more impersonal one; (iii) designing
and installing, on a pilot basis, a computerized document registry system, and initiating the design of a
case management system; and (iv) conducting a comprehensive statistical update of the entire districts
in collaboration with INEI (National Statistical Institute) and compiling the Judicial Statistics for
1995. The computerized document registry system and new court organization were tested in a few
criminal courts in Lima from August, and then introduced in civil courts in Chiclayo (the Lambayeque
district) in November 1996. The Judiciary authorities plan to implement such court automation in the
other districts in a phased manner, aiming at the completion of the nation-wide installation by end-
1998.
* Backlog reduction: creating transitory courts to eliminate cases pending as of end-1995 (to be
completed by end-1996), including 2 supreme transitory crimiinal courts, 14 superior transitory courts
(criminal, labor and mixed), and 80 first-instance courts (criminal, civil, labor, and basic justice).
According to the Judiciary's statistics, in less than a year, in Lima, all backlogs as of end-1995
(137,000 cases) were resolved.
O Improving the image of the Judiciary: (i) improving public attention; (ii) taking measures to
strengthen the security of the existing court facilities; and (iii) conducting public opinion surveys as
instrument to obtain feedback to the recently initiated reforms and identify areas where further efforts
are required.
* Infrastructure modernization: (i) designing a model courtroom, taking account of the proposed new
court organization, security and technology aspects; and (ii) undertaking the civil work identified as
priority in 1996, such as the remodeling of the central building (Palacio de Justicia) and civil, labor,
and criminal courthouses in Lima and the design study for the construction of central buildings in the
Cono Norte and Tacna districts--in both cases, adopting the new model of courtroom.
Access
1.34 General. Access to justice is severely limited for a large segment of Peruvians. Principal
barriers include physical access, high economic costs, lengthy and inefficient court procedures and
cultural barriers. First, the geographical coverage of the judicial system is very irregular. This has been
recognized by the President of the Supreme Court in his inaugural address of 1996 as the main barrier
of access to justice. The ratio of judges per inhabitant varies widely across judicial districts with no
relation at all to economic base or level of cases. High direct and indirect costs increase the difficulties
of access for the poor to the judicial system. Also, Peru is a very heterogeneous country with 5.1
million of indigenous population (such as quechas, aimaras, and amazonicos) or 22% of the total
population. These people may be intimidated not only by the unfamiliarity of the court system, but also
by the language barrier.
1.35   Efforts have been made in recent times to improve access of justice in particular regarding
decentralization of courts, modernization of the legislation for civil procedures, strengthening the public



10
defenders office and legal aid clinics and increased support for the justices of peace. The Judiciary has
embarked on a plan to decentralize court services by opening new courts closer to low-income
populations.
1.36 Judicial Process. A new civil procedural code replacing the Civil Proceedings Code of 1912
went into effect on July 28, 1993. This new code is designed to facilitate access to justice through its
endorsement of the guiding principles of judicial management of trial, immediacy, concentration and
procedural economy. In application of these principles, the judge is afforded increased authority over
the conduct of the proceedings, parties will have a more direct contact with the judges, procedural acts
are simplified and superfluous formalities are eliminated. While the previous code contained more than
100 different procedures, the new code reduces the number to six. Another significant change has been
to assign the Supreme Court the role of a court of cassation and thus reduce the number of appeals to
the highest court. Though the new code intends to facilitate the adjudication of disputes, in practice this
has proven very difficult as a result of the insufficient number of judges, the inefficient administration of
the courts, and the lack of proper training of judges and other judicial personnel.
1.37 Alternative Disvute Resolution. Some alternative dispute resolution methods have become
more available in recent times. This has increased the "supply" of services to satisfy the need of society
for prompt, effective and suitable means of conflict settlement. A new arbitration law was enacted in
1992, and modified in 1995, and there exists about eight arbitrage centers. The new civil procedural
code requires the judge to seek, at the outset of a lawsuit, a conciliation between the parties by
proposing formulas for reconciling their differences and arriving at an amicable solution to their conflict.
However, the problems mentioned in the previous paragraph prevent the full benefit of this new feature
in civil proceedings. Dejudicialization measures have been taken recently, including the assumption by
notaries of several non-contentious matters which were previously handled by civil judges. In the area
of consumer protection and intellectual property, INDECOPI has a very successful record in its
conciliatory mechanisms for dispute settlement. Also, there is some NGO activity in the area of
mediation and conciliation. While alternative dispute resolution mechanisms outside the formal system
are legally available in Peru, these mechanisms are not widely used by the public thus forcing the parties
into the formal system to resolve disputes. Strengthening ADR is expected to promote access to justice
and result in decongestion of the formal court system.
1.38  An important institution to promote access to justice is the Ombudsman or Defensoria del
Pueblo. Ombudsmen have been recently appointed in many countries responding to the increased
* complexity in the relations between the State and private parties and the inability of the public sector to
satisfy the growing demands for protection of the rights of citizens. As previously stated, the
Defensoria del Pueblo in Peru is charged with the investigation of claims by citizens against the public
administration, to solve disputes in government matters and help establish accountability by the
government for its actions. The Defensor del Pueblo was appointed in April 1996, and the office
became operational in September 1996.
1.39  Basic Justice. A most outstanding institution in Peru are the justices of peace. They constitute
a first instance of conflict resolution for the average Peruvian citizen especially in the rural areas. The
number and location of the justices of peace is determined by the Superior Courts in each judicial
district. There are two types of justices of peace: Jueces de Paz Letrados (legally trained justices of



11
peace) and Jueces de Paz (lay justices of peace). Jueces de Paz Letrados act as small claims courts with
competence over both civil and some minor criminal matters. As of end-1996, there are approximately
337 Jueces de Paz Letrados, and it is expected that this number will increase in the next year. Many of
the Jueces de Paz Letrados who are appointed have never been in the judicial system and have little
experience both in substantive legal matters as well as in conciliation techniques. In fact, currently there
is no consistency in how these Jueces de Paz Letrados conduct conciliation hearings.
1.40 Jueces de Paz (lay judges) are approximately 4,300 and account for almost 80% of justices in
Peru. They are basically conciliation justices who administer justice ex aequo et bono, based on their
best knowledge and understanding. They are generally persons with great respect and influence in their
communities; the good neighbor. They speak the local languages and most of them have secondary
education. Several studies have shown that the public has more confidence in such a system than it does
in the formal justice system. (For example, the level of popular satisfaction with them is high at 60-70%,
in a sharp contrast to consistent lack of faith in the formal system.) Thus, this extension of popular
justice plays a critical role in access to justice in Peru particularly in regard to traditional and indigenous
communities.
1.41  Jueces de Paz neither obtain compensation for their services nor receive any state support for
administrative expenses in support of such services. Training opportunities are also limited; during the
1980s, these judges received some training, but this has been discontinued. Many of the Jueces de Paz
have little or no experience upon taking the office. Though the 1993 Constitution requires that the
Justices of Peace be elected by the communities, such selection system has not yet been implemented
and they continue to be appointed by the Superior Courts.
Professional Competence and Integrity
1.42  Peruvian judges are generally poorly educated and trained as reflected in the generally poor
quality, unpredictability and uncertainty of their rulings; lack of appropriate aptitudes and skills; and an
overall misguided concept of their role and mission as magistrates.
1.43  Decisions rendered by judges reflect a very formalistic judicial reasoning. Judges tend in general
to apply a very narrow and literal interpretation of the laws with disregard to the economic and social
impact of their judgments. A recent research study on more than 200 cases in the civil courts in Lima
confirms this reality when deciding cases involving extra-contractual liability (torts). Outcomes are also
uncertain with almost no development of guiding case law. Further, judges are unfamiliar with legal
developments in the business field such as competition law, banking and insurance law and securities
legislation.
1.44 Though uncertainty and unpredictability are not easily measurable, as Chart 2 shows, people
have little trust in the system--particularly those who participated in the judicial process. Moreover, it
has translated into a private sector largely mistrustful of the Judiciary. In a survey carried out in 1993 among
108 businessmen from companies with gross income equal or over US$1 million, 90%/O of those interviewed
said they would not utilize the judicial system for the resolution oftheir legal disputes. Also, 32% ofthem
7  These companies were involved in commerce acivities (39%), manufacture (39%), non-financial services (17%), and other
activities (39%). The most frequent conflicts companies face are collection of bills, disputes over conratual interpretation,



12
responded that they are not interested in purchasing from new suppliers--even if they are offered much lower
prices (compared to their traditional suppliers)--because of the lack of reliable contract enforcement
mechanisms.
1.45  Judges also show a poor preparation in judicial and practical skills. These include those related
to the procedure itself such as evaluation of evidence as well as other general matters as case flow
management, informatics, administration, etc. Most importantly, judges fail to view their role as a
public service to the people. There is a want of a "culture of service".
1.46  In the past, the Judiciary has undertaken training programs. In the 1970's, the then Comision de
Reforma Judicial embarked on an active and aggressive training effort aimed at instilling a more creative
mentality in the judges. In the 1980's important training activities were conducted for the justices of
peace.8 Recently, the predecessor of the Academia de la Magistratura also engaged in training efforts
to update the knowledge of judges in new legislative developments. However, the impact of those past
efforts has been adversely affected by the high turnover in the Judiciary in the last two decades for
political factors.
1.47 The training needs are profound and the new Academia de la Magistratura is well aware of the
challenge. It has become operational earlier this year and conducted several seminars with the newly
appointed superior judges and prosecutors, as well as a series of self-training programs ("auto-
capacitacion) for the existing judges in Lima, northern, and southern parts of the country. In the auto-
capacitacion programs, opinions were sought from judges on the ongoing reform process, and the need
to improve the existing court organization and process was discussed. The Academia has also
completed, with the funding of the Japanese PHRD grant, an initial needs assessment of the civil judges
in the Lima district. There are, however, much work and assistance required ahead for the Academia to
develop into a sustainable resource center for the improvement of the justice system. This will include
upgrading curriculum development, teaching methodologies and styles, development of personal
teaching tools and evaluation of training programs. Furthermore, with the recent modification to the
Organic Law of the CNM, the AM is now requested to provide effective assistance to the CNM in the
emergency, mass judicial selection, by offering training programs for aspiring judges (para. 1.19).
1.48  Ethics standards in the Judiciary requires a special consideration.  There is a widespread
perception in the public of pervasive corruption in the judiciary. Ethics was a point emphasized by the
President of the Supreme Court in his inaugural address in 1996 and a recommendation was made to
adopt a Code of Judicial Ethics. In the workshops with judges and the training needs assessments
carried out by the Academia de la Magistratura, ethics was identified as a learning need.
1.49  Unethical behavior is much a cause as a result of the many problems in the Judiciary. There is a
need to develop clear ethical guidelines, provide training and ensure appropriate enforcement
labor related conflicts, and finally, civil and mercantile conficts. APOYO S.A. (1993), Actitudes Empresariales ante el
Poder Judicial.
8 Indeed, the Centro Judicial de Investigaciones (a research unit of the Judiciary),with the assistance of the Naumnman
Foundation, carried out more than 250 seminars.



13
mechanisms. At the same time, it must be recognized that a system with no tenure, low salaries and
great political interference encourages such behavior.
1.50. Recently, efforts have been made to correct unethical behavior. The most symbolic action was
the modification of the prevailing employment practices to increase transparency, e.g., by terminating
judges' family members occupying clerical positions and prohibiting the employment of non-salaried
clerical staff (para.1.33).   The function of the OCMA  has been also  strengthened.   Without
strengthening the values of ethics in the justice system, reform efforts will become futile and not
sustainable.
Chart 1: Caseload Distribution by District (1995)
Piura
Cuzco
0 Pending at end-95
Arequipa                                                    * Resolved
Callao                                                    U Filed
Cono Norte
Lima
0      50000    100000   150000   200000   250000
Source: the Judiciary, Estadistica Resolucion 002-95-TP/J, PUCP



14
Chart 2: Public Trust on the Judiciary
Not turstworthy at
all
Little trustworty                                           32%
40%
No comment     Trustworthy        trustworthy
9%             5%                14%
Source: Apoyo 1993, Evaluacion del Sistema Judicial, Opinion Publica
Sample of 502 persons in Linia, with age 18 years and above.
Chart 3: Judicial Process Time
No comment   Short                Lon
4%         4%                  Long
_   -------- r . -  ---- -  _  Acceptable
6%
62%
Source: Apoyo 1993, Evaluacion del Sistema Judicial, AgraOiados
Sample of 180 businessmen inLim a.



15
Table 1: Costs of Selected Civil Judicial Procedures in Peru
.- i : ..... ";.""'''' ' ' ''' ' ....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........._  ...  ....    ....   ._  . 
_ _ _ _ _ _....__ _.....).
Ordinary           Breach of contract            200,000  4 years            27,111.61
Executive           Collection of debt in US$      60,000  1 year, 9 mos.    12,196.58
Summary             Damages                        20,000  3 years            7,134.01
Summary             Damages                         4,000  3 years            1,110.50
Executive           Collection of debt in Soles     1,500  1 year, 9 mos.       549.06
Setting and                                           250  2 years              321,07
collecting alimony                            I           I               I            I
Sources: APOYO, 1993, El Cost de los Procedimientos Civiles en el Poder Judicial.
Table 2. Monthly Salaries in the Judicial Sector
.;.                  S y '9,      S    '''':"'""-"'" ,' .   ..'' '".........7..s..a....... ., ,
<                                                             *  D_  3!1   i- :   : ,,.,..., :.:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . . . .  
Supreme Court Judges  2,300(1,150)  6,695 (2,678)  11,995 (4,526)   790/0    President    $6-10,000
Board
Supreior Court                    3,005 (1,202)  5,765 (2,175)  92%
Pesident
Superior Court Judges  1,840 (920)   3,005 (1,202)  4,730 (1,785)  57%  General     $4-8,000
Manager
Specialized Judges   1,265 (622)   2,005 (1,002)  3,500 (1,320)  75%    Deputy      $2-5,000
Manager
Juecez de Paz         920 (460)    1,405 (562)   2,555 (963)    82%
Source: Judicial Sector Ass em, LA3PS, World Bank, 1994 (for 1993 data); Judiciary Gerencia General (for 1995-97 data)
The 1997 salaries include rmmuneration + bonus for jurisdictional functions + gasoline allowance (for supreme court
judges).



16
D. Judicial Reform Program and Recent Initiatives
1.51   As stated before, administrative modernization and reorganization of the Judiciary have gained new
dynamics with the passage of law 26546 in November 1995 (para. 1.27). Although this law initially gave the
Comision Ejecutiva only one-year to carry out reform in the administrative areas, last June such mandate was
extended until end-1998 and its scope was expanded to include jurisdictional reforms (law 26623).9 Since
January 1997, the Comision Ejecutiva has been presided by the President of the Supreme Court.
Furthermore, law 26623 provides for: (i) the creation of a Consejo de Coordinacion Judicial (CCJ), with a
broad representation of various interest groups, charged with strategic planning and policy coordination of
the justice sector; and (ii) the reorganization and modernization of the Public Ministry, thus extending the
reform to the criminal justice system. During the three-year reform period, the membership of the CCJ will
be restricted to three organizations, i.e., the Judiciary, the CNM, and the Public Ministry. Also, an office was
created within the CCJ to coordinate technical and financial cooperation with national and international
agencies.
1.52   The stated objectives of the CCJ are: to coordinate the general policy directions on the development
and organization of the institutions involved in the justice sector; to define strategies for permanent
collaboration and concerted efforts in the areas of modernization and efficiency improvement in judicial
services; to elaborate integral programs to modernize and reorganize procedures and administrative systems
for the institutions directly related and/or associated with the service of justice administration; and to support
efforts to improve the justice system in coordination with the related institutions such as Ministry of Justice,
Police, Defensoria del Pueblo, universities, private business, legal community, and international agencies.
1.53   Upon assuming the responsibility in last November, the Judiciary authorities launched wide-ranging
reform initiatives, primarily in the administrative areas (paras. 1.32-1.33). In August 1996, the Comision
Ejecutiva elaborated a document that outlines a strategic plan and the proposed reform program for 1996-98.
The document establishes three key objectives of the reform program: (i) to implement an efficient
administrative organization (e.g., by strengthening general administration, disciplinary function, and other
support services); (ii) to establish a modem court organization (e.g., through the implementation of backlog
reduction, new court organization, and alternative dispute resolution mechanism); and (iii) to optimize the
profile of judges (e.g., through the development of a judicial career system, improvement in incentive
systems, judicial training with increased emphasis on quality and efficiency). Under each objective, specific
time-bound work programs have been defined. Furthermore, during the recent months, there have been a
collaborative effort among the Judiciary, the AMK the CNM, and the DP to develop a vision and strategy of
the sector reform and clarify the responsibilities of respective institutions for achieving the shared vision (see
Annex 1 for the policy letter).
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.54   The project is consistent with the latest Country Assistance Strategy, presented to the Board in July
1997 (Report No. 16796-PE) and policy dialogue held with the Government at the time of the Bank
programming missions in the recent years. In particular, the project would assist in the process of
modernization of the state, improve public sector management in support of growth, assist in poverty
9  In December 1996, the Organic Law of the Judiciary was modified to accomodate these changes (law 26695). Law 26695
has established that from 1997, the Coniision Ejecutiva would be presided by the President of the Supreme Court.



17
alleviation and provide better conflict resolution mechanisms for the private sector. The absence of a credible
and efficient judiciary and alternative dispute resolution mechanisms negatively affects the enabling
environment for private sector development, contributes to inequities in access to justice by the poor, and
potentially could contribute to political instability. Moreover, a stronger judiciary will serve better to
counteract corrupt and fraudulent practices in the public and private sectors. Bank support of the
Government's economic program in the areas of private sector development and the social sectors is
hampered by the lack of attention to problems in the judicial sector. While Peru has adopted a number of
necessary legal reforms, its capacity to implement those reforms remains inadequate. The Bank's expertise in
administrative strengthenng, its perceived objectivity in a sensitive area, and its support for the Government's
economic reform program provide the rationale for Bank involvement. Moreover, the Bank could play an
important role in helping the authorities: (i) elaborate and implement a medium-term reform program; (ii)
attain a smooth transition from the emergency situation and sustain the ongoing reform initiatives; and (iii)
ensure the integrity and consistency of recent reform initiatives by involving other key players (such as the
AM  and the CNM) in the project. During the discussions of the sector report in March 1995, the
Government agreed with many of the principal recommendations and the reform strategy outlined in the
report, and in separate discussions with the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Economy and Finance, and
then new President of the Supreme Court, strong positive feedback was provided for Bank assistance. This
was reiterated by the new team of the Judiciary, which considers Bank involvement in the sector at this
juncture critical to achieve smooth transition from current emergency efforts to longer-term, sustainable,
comprehensive reform. The existence of a new constitutional framework and improved legislation for the
sector including the administrative organization of the Judiciary, new legislation on civil procedure and
arbitration-together with increased recognition within the civil society on the need for judicial reform--
present a unique opportunity for accomplishing significant advances in the judicial sector.
F. Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Experience
1.55   Since this project would represent the Bank's first operation in support of judicial reform in Peru, no
lessons of sectoral experience are available. Moreover, given the relative recent history of Bank involvement
in the judicial sector, there has not been much experience in the area from which to draw lessons, except for
Venezuela and Bolivia (under implementation) and Ecuador (recently approved by the Board). Experience
with the Venezuela Judicial Infrastructure Project suggests the desirability of prior strengthening of the
implementing agency and unit, especially given the limited experience in the judicial sector with project
planning and implementation; the establishment of a broad-based advisory commission to ensure
communication among agencies that affect and are affected by the project; and constant reinforcement of the
commitment and ownership of the project by the Government and the judicial sector. Recent Bank efforts in
Bolivia and in the preparation of the Ecuador Judicial Reform Project reinforce the need for these three
elements: (i) professional and functioning coordination units; (ii) the establishment of clear coordination
responsibilities across branches of Government; and (iii) commitment and understanding of changes by the
Judiciary.



18
IL THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives
2.1    The overall objective of the project is to assist the Borrower in improving the performance of its
justice system by enhancing, under the framework and terms of its sector strategy in the policy letter, its
access, quality, independence, efficiency and integrity. Specific objectives are to: (i) modernize the
administrative structure and operation of the Judiciary; (ii) improve the overall performance in civil and labor
courts in the selected districts; (iii) strengthen the CNM and consolidate and improve its merit-based system
of appointment, advancement and removal of magistrates; (iv) strengthen the AM and enhance the
professional competence of civil and labor judges in the selected districts; (v) strengthen OCMA's disciplinary
system to enhance accountability and integrity of judges; (vi) develop and strengthen alternative dispute
resolution methods; (vii) support the institutional development of the newly established Office of Public
Defender; and (viii) strengthen the capacity of civil society to analyze, monitor and demand judicial
performance. The achievement of these objectives would increase public trust and confidence in the justice
system, and thus improve the competitive environment for conflict resolution.
B. Proiect Descrigtion
2.2    To achieve the above objectives, the project would support key initiatives in the first stage of a
comprehensive and long-term reform program of the justice system. These key initiatives would improve the
"supply" of judicial services as well as strengthen "demand" for better judicial services--both within and
without the formal system. On the "supply" side, the project would strengthen basic institutions in the judicial
sector and support a set of focused, specific activities aimed at improving judicial performance at five selected
districts: Lima (including Cono Norte and Callao), Arequipa, Cusco, Lambayeque, and Piura. In this respect,
the project aims to create five "centers of excellence" showing short-term, tangible and measurable results
with demonstration effects to the rest of the judicial districts. In November 1996, the first, district-wide pilot
program for new court organization and procedures (backed by court automation) was inaugurated in the
civil courts in Chiclayo, capital city of the Lambayeque judicial district. A phased, pilot approach would be
taken, and the experience of the Lambayeque pilot (medium-size) would be evaluated and disseminated
before the pilot is replicated in the other selected judicial districts. On the "demand" side, the project would
support greater public demand and accessibility to judicial services through the strengthening of the Justice of
Peace and the ombudsman's office (Defensor del Pueblo) and a demand-driven "Access Fund" to promote
ADR initiatives and other innovative activities to develop the capacity of the civil society for analyzing,
demanding and monitoring judicial performance.
2.3    The project would finance consulting services and studies, training and seminars, goods and
equipment, and physical infrastructure of the following three integrated components: (i) administration of
justice (US$18.1 million or 62% of total base costs); (ii) judicial selection, evaluation and training (US$3.7
million or 13% of total base costs), and (iii) access to justice (US$5.0 million or 17% of total base costs).
Total project costs are estimated to be US$31.6 million, including price and physical contingencies (total base
costs $29.2 million; see summary cost tables, Annex 10). Specific component activities are summarized
below. (The detailed description of the component activities are provided in the Project Implementation
Plan.)



19
Component I: Adminis*ation of Justice
2.4   The objectives of this component are to assist in: (i) modernizing the administrative apparatus of the
Judiciary and make it more effective and self-sustainable; and (ii) improving judicial performance in selected
districts through key activities related to its efficiency, equity and predictability.
Subcomponent 1: Modernization of the Administrative Apparatus of the Judiciary. This subcomponent
would assist in deepening the ongoing reforms by the Judiciary authorities in the following three areas:
Admnistrative strengthening of district offices: (i) providing training to administrative personnel of the
General Administration Offices (at 25 judicial districts nationwide), who have been recently recruited
through competitive examination, to upgrade their skills in such areas as: planning and management,
operational procedures, statistics and information, computer skills etc.; (ii) conducting a study to review
and refine the recently established administrative system and developing operational manuals; (iii)
supporting the development and implementation of management information systems for the General
Administration Offices in the areas of human resource, finance and procurement and the provision of
informatic equipment to support general and court administration (nationwide); and (iv) conducting
workshops for administrative personnel at the General Administration Offices and courts to discuss
bottlenecks and improvement plans for administrative modernization.
* Financial management: (i) conducting studies on feasibility and alternative ways to strengthen economic
autonomy of the Judiciary, including new forns of resource generation, costs of judicial services, and
improved judicial fee systems; (ii) strengthening the capacity of the General Administration Office for the
elaboration and execution of program-based budget; and (iii) designing and implementing a preferential
fee scheme for low-income groups.
* Institutional image of the Judiciary: (i) supporting the dissenination of the Judiciary's reforms through
public campaign (e.g., through radio and television spots); and (ii) conducting a series of evaluation
studies on the administrative reforms being carried out (e.g., opinion surveys of litigants, lawyers, judges
and court personnel).
Subcomoponent 2: Court Performance Improvement Pilots. This subcomponent is designed to improve the
quality, predictability and timeliness of judicial decision-making in the selected districts through the
implementation of key activities in a participatory manner. These activities focus on improving the
predictability of decisions of judges, court procedures and organization ('sistema corporativo'), court
automation and infrastructure remodeling (see below). In addition judicial training activities (component 2)
will also focus on these selected districts. Specific key activities have already commenced in civil courts of
the Lambayeque district in November 1996 in the areas of the introduction of new court procedures and
organization, court automation, infrastructure remodeling, and training of judges and court personnel in
informatic skills and case administration. (Prior to this district-wide implementation in Lambayeque, during
August-October 1996 the Judiciary team experimented the proposed new court procedures and organization,
as well as the software system of the first-stage court automation in selected courts in Lima (i.e., anti-drug
courts and transitory courts)). Upon satisfactory evaluation of the Lambayeque pilot, the implementation of
the pilot program will expand to other selected districts in a phased manner. To this end, two teams have
been recently set up within the Judiciary to plan and implement pilot programs (outside Lima) in collaboration
with respective districts. The experience of the Lambayeque pilot would be evaluated and the lessons gained



20
would be incorporated into the subsequent pilots in the other districts of similar size (see Annex 8 for the
description of a typical pilot program). Due to its very large size and complexity, the Lima pilot would be
treated separately from those of the above medium-size districts. A team has been set up to exclusively focus
on the preparation and implementation of the Lima program.
* Civil and labor judgments. (i) conducting national and regional forums (plenarios) with civil and labor
judges to discuss specific judgments in civil and labor matters, share experience and knowledge among
the judges, and make recommendations to uniformize case law on specific legal issues; (ii) developing
innovative incentive schemes for judges, i.e., the dissemination of the work of judges and researchers
through the publication of journals and annual reports, research competition, and the conduct of study
tours; and (iii) expansion of court libraries in the selected districts.
* Court procedure and organization: (i) pilot implementation of a new court organization and simplified,
standardized case processing procedures (starting from the Lambayeque district), introducing fine-tuning
measures as required, and expanding the new organization and procedures to the remaining selected
districts in a phased way. This exercise would include training of judges and auiliary court personnel on
case administration and information skills, public campaign, evaluation (through statistical verification,
workshops, and surveys on users and judges), as well as court automation and infrastructure remodeling
(see the separate section below); (ii) conducting regional workshops for judges to evaluate the impact and
results of the application of the new code of civil procedures, deepen the understanding of court
procedures, and make recommendations for further improvements; (iii) organizing workshops and
surveys with the representatives of the civil society to evaluate the progress of new court organization
and the implementation of the new civil procedure code; and (iv) conducting studies on quantitative and
qualitative indicators to measure performance improvements of civil and labor courts and disseminating
the results at workshops with judges (on an annual basis). The studies would include the process time,
the volume of cases disposed per court, costs of judicial administration, and be used as a tool to monitor
improvements in judicial performance in the selected districts.
* Judicial information system and statistics: (i) design of an automated caseflow management system, the
pilot implementation of an integrated judicial information system in Lambayeque and its evaluation, and
subsequent expansion of the system to the other selected districts in a phased way; (ii) conducting a
diagnostic study of the existing judicial statistics system (including identification of key statistical
indicators) and implementing improvement plans, so that key administrative and jurisdictional data,
necessary for operations and decision making, can be provided timely and accurately; (iii) development of
multiple data base (both legislation and cases); (iv) design and implementation of a modern archive
system in the selected districts; and (v) automation of courts through the purchase of basic automation
equipment-PCs, printers, basic software, and other equipment for the selected pilot districts (except for
Lima where the purchase of these equipment is underway).
* Infrastructure remodeling: The project would finance the remodeling of physical facilities in the selected
districts (i.e., central buildings) so that infrastructure investment could go hand in hand with
administrative and judicial modernization efforts. The Judiciary has already developed a concept of
model courtroom (or new court organization), which takes account of improved processes, modem
technology, and security considerations. The remodeling works will be implemented by the architectural
unit of the Judiciary. During preappraisal, the unit costs of the proposed remodeling (per m2) were
reviewed and judged satisfactory. Infrastructure remodeling would be financed entirely with local
counterpart funds.



21
Component 2: Judicial Selection, Evaluation and Training
2.5    This component aims, through integrated efforts of the CNM, the AM  and the Judiciary, at (i)
establishing and maintaining a merit-based judicial career system; and (ii) improving judicial ethics and
accountability. This should result in an improvement of professional competence, ethical standards and
legitimacy of judges and other court personmel..
Subcomponent 1: Judicial Selection and Evaluation. This subcomponent would support the CNM through:
(i) developing, upgrading and refining its regulations, procedures and systems for selection, removal, and
ratification of judges and strengthening its organizational structure accordingly; (ii) strengthening its strategic
planning and management capacity through the implementation of diagnostic studies, the development of
organizational visions and action plans, and expert advice; (iii) providing the CNM members with training on
management and informatics skills; (iv) conducting studies on the profile of judges, the profile of the CNM
staff, and ethical standards in the Judiciary; and (v) providing informatic and other logistic support, including
the development of data bases in support of the selection, removal, and ratification functions.
Subcomponent 2: Judicial Training. This subcomponent would assist the AM in the initial institutional
development and the implementation of comprehensive and integrated training programs for civil and labor
judges in the selected districts to upgrade their judicial skills and aptitudes, strengthen their knowledge in
selected areas of primarily business law matters, improve ethical standards and instill a "culture of service".
An initial training needs assessment conducted in the Lima judicial district (with the Japanese PHRD grant
financing) shows as priority learning needs: (a) judicial skills such as judicial reasoning, legal writing,
evaluation of evidence, conciliation techniques, court administration, etc.;. (b) legal knowledge such as tax
matters, capital markets, competition law, banking law, insurance law, negotiable instruments,
extracontractual liability (torts) and measurement of damages; and (c) attitudes as mission and role of the
judge in society, attitude or culture of service, treatment of minorities, etc. Project financing would include:
(i) the design and implementation of arnual training programs for the judges appointed by the CNM (e.g.,
needs assessments, curriculum and module design, training materials, honorarium, training of trainers,
distance training, and logistic support); (ii) evaluation studies of impact and results of the training programs;
and (iii) institutional strengthening of the AM (e.g., consultancy for designing intensive training programs for
aspiring judges, judicial selection by the CNM, study tours for the AM staff, and the support to publications).
These activities would complement the support received by the AM from the European Union
(approximately US$1 million in grant) in the areas of the Academia's library, the contracting of professors for
specific training courses (including non-civil matters and with emphasis in districts other than Lima and
aspiring judges and prosecutors), and the purchase of informatic and office equipment.
Subcomponent 3: Disciplinary System. This subcomponent aims at strengthening the disciplinary system of
the OCMA (Oficina de Control de los Magistrados; internal control unit of the Judiciary). Project financing
would include: (i) the conduct of a diagnostic study of its organization, particularly in light of the OCMA's
recent decentralization efforts (i.e., the creation of district-level disciplinary commissions), and support to the
implementation of the study's recommendations; (ii) the refinement of the legal framework for a monitoring
and control system; (iii) training of the OCMA staff, including needs assessment, workshops and annual
training seminars, study tours; (iv) dissemination of OCMA's activities; and (v) informatic and other
equipment support for the decentralized, district-level disciplinary commissions. Because of the



22
complementary role of the CNM and the OCMA in the evaluation and the control of judges' performance,
the activity (i)-(ii) would be carried out in close coordination with the subcomponent 1.
Component 3: Access to Justice
2.6    This component aims at improving access to justice in a broad sense by: (i) providing training for
justices of peace (i.e., lay judges) and community authorities on conciliation and mediation techniques and
refining the legal and regulatory framework for their activities; (ii) establishing and operating a demand-driven
Access Fund to promote altemative means of dispute resolution and to strengthen the capacity of civil
society for analyzing, demanding and monitoring judicial performance; and (iii) supporting the initial
institutional development and key selected activities of the newly created Office of Public Defender (DP).
The component is complementary to the proposed IDB project (estimated at up to US$20 million), which
would primarily focus on training, courtroom modernization and infrastructure improvement for the Jueces
de Paz Letrado (legally-trained judges).
Subcomponent 1: Support to the Jueces de Paz System. This subcomponent would support: (i) the design
and implementation of training programs for Jueces de Paz (lay judges, popularly elected under the new
constitutional system) and community authorities, who provide an important mechanism for access to justice
of the poorest people in the urban and the rural areas; (ii) the implementation of baseline studies of Jueces de
Paz and user surveys (before and after training programs); and (iii) the review and refinement of the existing
laws and regulations of the Jueces de Paz. The activities (i) and (ii) would focus on the selected districts.
- Design and implementation of trainingprograms: (i) the development of training modules for training of
trainers (about 30 local trainers, each for Jueces de Paz and local authorities) and their selection criteria,
the provision of training for trainers in the skills of adult education and mediation and conciliation; (ii) the
preparation of training materials; (iv) the irnplementation of training programs for conciliation in the
selected districts; and (v) the evaluation of training programs (their impact, content, methodology,
materials etc.) with the participation of trainers, professionals, universities, NGOs, and the AM etc.
3 Performance evaluation of Jueces de Paz: (i) initial baseline and follow-up surveys (before and after the
implementation of training) in selected districts, covering types of cases, time delay, form of conflict
resolution etc., and the dissemination of the survey results through workshops; and (ii) client surveys--
similarly before and after the implementation of training. The results of both baseline and client surveys
would be discussed at the time of evaluation of training programs (see above (v)).
* Analysis of legislafion and regulations on Jueces de Paz: (i) the review of the existing legislation and
norms on Jueces de Paz by establishing working groups and make proposals for improvements; and (ii)
public dissemination of the proposals through workshops to forge consensus on legal and regulatory
changes.
Subcomponent 2: Access Fund. This subcomponent would help improve access to justice through the
creation of a demand-driven fund to finance eligible subprojects aimed at: (i) promoting ADR mechanisms
(e.g., setting up mediation centers, training mediators and arbitrators, development of training materials and
requirements to be a mediator or arbitrator, etc.); and (ii) strengthening the capacity of civil society for
analyzing, demanding and monitoring judicial performance. The proposed subprojects would be non-profit
and items eligible for financing would be technical assistance activities. The Access Fund would be
administered by the PCU through a management committee (comprising of the representatives of the PJ,



23
CNM, AM and DP). The management committee, in consultation with the advisory panel, would evaluate
and approve subprojects based on rules and procedures to form part of the operational manual. In order to
promote the participation of the civil society in the reform process, proposals would be sought widely from
NGOs, bar associations, law schools, and other private and academic groups. Successful subprojects would
be evaluated upon completion to assess their replicability. It is envisaged that the Access Fund would have a
national coverage to assure that the large number of organizations and groups be given a chance to
participate in the reform process. In this way, the Access Fund would complement the administration of
justice component which would focus on strengthening of central administrative apparatus of the Judiciary
and court performance improvement activities in the selected districts. The draft operational guideline for the
Access Fund was reviewed during negotiations. The adoption of the operational guidelines. acceptable to the
Bank would constitute a condition of loan effectiveness.
Subcomponent 3: Support to the Office of Public Defender (DP). This subcomponent would support the
institutional development of the DP in the areas of: (i) its organizational structure and functions, norms and
procedures (through advisory services, strategic workshops, evaluation studies, and staff training and study
tours); (ii) native communities, environmental protection, and citizen rights in the market economy (through
studies and workshops), as well as the organization of the forum to promote the coordination between the
state and civil society; (iii) public campaign and dissemination of DP activities, including the preparation and
distribution of materials in native languages and regional workshops; and (iv) other logistic and informatic
support to promote the decentralization of DP offices.
2.7   In addition, the project would provide consultant services, goods and training for the implementation
and supervision of the project, and canrying out of effective coordination and performance monitoring
activities.
D. Proiect Costs and Financin2
2.8   Total project costs are estimated at US$31.6 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component
of US$5.4 million, or 17% of project costs. Project costs include US$2.3 million for physical (US$1.3
million) and price (US$1.0 million) contingencies. The proposed loan of US$22.5 million equivalent would
finance approximate 71% of total project costs, net of taxes and duties, and the balance, US$9.1 million
equivalent, or 290/o of the project costs, would be financed by the Judiciary, the CNM, the AM, and the DP
through their respective budgetary appropriations, as well as by the beneficiaries of the Access Fund as their
local contributions. The IDB has been providing a technical assistance grant (US$1.4 million from MIF) for
ADR and is also in the process of preparing a project, to be supported with a loan estimated at up to $20
million, to support the judicial sector. There has been close coordination between the Bank and the IDB
during preparation, including joint missions and workshops. The IDB project would focus on the justice of
peace system (Jueces de Paz Letrado) including training and courtroom modernization and infrastructure
improvement in decentralized Juzgados de Paz that are not covered under the Bank project. The USAID has
been involved in the judicial sector through its Administration of Justice Program; however, virtually all of its
activities have been focused on the criminal justice system. Furthermore, UNDP has provided some technical
assistance funding in the design and preparation of several judicial sector activities, principally in the area of
informatics development. UNDP has also been providing technical support in the administration of the
Japanese PHRD Grant; however, limited funding beyond design assistance is available from this source.



24
Table 3: Estimated Project Cost
(US$mn equivalent)
A. Admiinistration of Justice                      14.2       3.9     18.1
A.1 ModemnizationoftheAdniinistrativeApparatusof   3.1       0.1     3.3
the Judiciary
A.2 Court Performance Improvement                 11.1      3.8      14.9
- Civil &laborjudgments                       1.2       0.6      1.8
- Court procedures & organization             4.1       0.7      4.8
-Information &statistics                      1.6       2.5      4.1
- Infastructure remodeling                    4.1        -       4.1
B. Judicial Selection, Evaluation, and Training     3.2       0.5      3.7
B.l.Judicial.Selectionand.Evaluation              0.7       0.4       1.1
B.2 Judicial Training                              1.8      0.1       1.9
B.3 Disciplinary System                           0.7       0.1      0.8
C. Access to Justice                                4.6       0.4      5.0
C. 1 Support to Jueces dePa_                       1 .0      -1.0
C.2 Access Fund                                   2.5c/     0.1      2.5
C.3 Supportto the Office of Public Defender        1.1      0.4       1.5
D. Project Management and Adminiistration           2.1       0.2      2.4
D1. Project Coordination Unit                     0.9       0.1      1.0
D2. Project Management                            1.3       0.1      1.4
Total Base Costs                                24.2       5.0    29.2
Physical Contingencies                            1.0      0.2       1.3
Price Contingencies                              0.8       0.2       1.0
a/ Pre-identified preparation activities to be funded by the Japanese Grant are not included
in these figures.
b/ Numbers may not add due to rounding.
c/.Includes beneficiary contributions.



25
m. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Preparation
3.1   Project preparation benefited greatly from a Japanese PHRD grant in an amount of 57.6 million Yen.
The grant financed a series of workshops aimed at consensus building ofjudicial reform, training needs
assessment of civil judges in Lima, pilot training program for new civil procedural code for judges in Lima,
design and evaluation of a new court organization model, study tours for the professionals in the Judiciary,
AM, and CNM. It has also supported the Project Preparation Unit within the Judiciary in the conduct of
diagnostic studies and the design of component activities in collaboration with the other executing organs.
B. Institutional and LeMal Arrangements
3.2    There are four implementing agencies for the project: the Judiciary (through the Executive
Commission and OCMA), the AM, the CNM, and the DP. Because the project is a first major loan for the
sector and in light of their unfamiliarity with Bank operations and weak institutional capacity, the Project
Preparation Unit (PPU) was established within the Judiciary with the responsibility for executing the Japanese
grant for the formulation of the Bank project--in collaboration with the other relevant parties--and
coordinating the support from other donors.10 During the project implementation, this office will be
reinforced as the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), headed by a Project Director and assisted by two project
officers responsible for monitoring the execution of the PJ, AM, CNM, and DP components and a finance
and accounting officer. To ensure inter-institutional coordination, a Steering Committee will be established
with the participation of the representatives of the implementing agencies, and the PCU will serve as
secretariat to the Committee.
3.3    The Government has decided to contract a management agency to administer the contracts and
disbursements in light of the limited capacity of the implementing agencies and for reasons of transparency.
The Government has proposed, and the Bank has agreed, to use UJNDP as the management agency."
UNDP will administer the contracts under a "cost-sharing" arrangement and disburse directly to consultants,
according to the terms of their respective contracts (signed by respective implementing agencies and
authorized by the PCU).
3.4   The following legal arrangements will be executed in connection with the project. A loan agreement
will be executed between the Bank and the Republic of Peru and project agreements will be executed with
CNM and DP respectively. For purposes of transferring the respective portion of the Bank loan proceeds, a
subsidiary agreement will be signed with each of CNM, AM and DP. Execution of such subsidiary
agreements will constitute a condition of loan effectiveness.
10 Resolucion Administrativa #092-95-CD-PJ, October, 1995.
Decreto Supremo #132-92-EF authonzes the UNDP office/lima to provide such suppot, on the basis of the decision made by
respective sector authorities.



26
C. Procurement
3.5   In order to strengthen capacity in dealing with procurement activities, key staff in the implementing
agencies and the PCU would be trained and be familiarized with Bank norms and procedures. Consultants'
services to be financed by the loan will be selected and contracted by the implementing agencies in
accordance with Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants (August 1981), except for the development of
selected softwares for the administration ofjustice 2, which will be financed by the Government from its own
counterpart funds and contracted according to its local procedures. During negotiations, agreements were
reached that standard forms of contract and model letters of invitation acceptable to the Bank would be used
for hiring of consultant services and that the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs) would be used in
all applicable cases of procurement of goods and works. Such standard forms, model letters and standard
bidding documents will form part of the Operational Manual. Changes needed to suit project requirements
would be approved by the Bank.
3.6   Procurement of goods would be carried out in accordance with Bank Procurement Guidelines
(January 1995 as revised in January and August, 1996). Infonnatic equipment (including hardware, first-
three year of maintenance, and basic training needed by the judicial information system subcomponent) would
be packaged into 1 or 2 contracts of US$250,000 or more and be procured under international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures. Other isolated computers, software, and office/specialized equipment would be
procured using LIB among suppliers with service and maintenance facilities in Peru, for contracts valued at
US$50,000 equivalent or more up to a limnit of US$700,000. Small purchases of library books and other
supplies would be made using shopping procedures, requifing at least three quotations from eligible suppliers,
for the individual contracts of less than US$25,000 each (national shopping) and less than US$50,000 each
(international shopping), up to an aggregate of US$100,000 respectively.
3.7   Civil works would be financed entirely by the Government from its own counterpart funds and
contracted according to its local procedures.
3.8   The Access Fund would finance subprojects which may include studies, training, dissemination, and
ADR promotion proposed by the eligible entities--i.e., universities, research institutes, bar associations,
business associations, NGOs, and other private organizations-with a maximum grant amount of $50,000 per
subproject and the possibility of multiple applications up to a maximum of US$200,000. Selection of
subprojects to be financed by the Fund would be carried out in accordance with eligibility criteria and
operational procedures set out in the operational guidelines satisfactory to the Bank.
3.9    Bank Prior Review. The Bank will review and approve ex-ante all procurement documents and
decisions for ICB and LIB contracting. For consulting firms on contracts estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 equivalent, and for individual consultants on contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000
equivalent, the Bank's prior review will cover only the tenrs of reference, single source contracting,
assignmients of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank and amendments revising the contract
value over the agreed threshold. These prior review arrangemnents would ensure ex-ante review by the Bank
of about 55% of the total value of all Bank-financed contracts. Although this prior review coverage is
relatively low, it is acceptable in light of the good performance by UNDP and PPU in following Bank
12 Th=e include: the seco phase of case tang system, s cal inomkation system, manageent inifrmation ystem for
geneal adminstration, and multiple data base.



27
guidelines for selection of consultants under the Japanese PHRD grant. While this prior coverage is relatively
low, it is acceptable in light of the good performance of UNDP and PPU in following Bank guidelines under
the Japanese grant. All procurement documentation would also be subject to selective ex-post review by the
Bank and external auditors.
Table 4: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ millions equivalent)
:Proect Eleen                     rouentMto                        Toa C
; n ~~~~~~~~.                  .      ..---a. h-:...........--
Consultants' Service, and    -          19.0 al      1.4             20.4
Training and Studies                    (16.4)                       (16.4)
Goods and Equipment         3.5          0.9          -               4.3
(3.3)       (0.8) b/                     (4.1)
Access Fund                              2.4                          2.4
(2.0) c/                     (2.0)
Civil Works                                          4.4              4.4
Incremental Operating        -           0.1          -               0.1
Costs                                   (0.1) d/                     (0.1)
TOTAL              -      35          22:   .                      36
-: ; ---: : :(3:3) .             (1':-.)                      (i::2.-,).
Notes:  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
Numbers may not add due to rounding.
t Services should be procured in accordance with World Banlc, Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrower and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981). Also includes the Cost-Sharing
Agreement with UNDP/Lima office.
/t LIB (esimated at US$0.7 rmn) and Shopping (estimated at US$0.1 rnn).
cl Services should be procured in accordance vith the selection procedures described in the operational procedures of the
Access Fund.
f Includes offilce supplies, launch and mid-term evaluation workshops, and travel and training costs for PCU staff etc.



28
Table 5: Procurement Prior Review and SOE Thresholds
(US$ thousands)
..    .;..,,;..,.. ... ..                                                     ..... . .
a, -, -                                                                                     .0  ..
Consu}tant Services and                  Selection according 
Studies, Trainiing and                   to Consultants
Seminars                                 Guidelines.
Firm                   >_ 100                           .All                  < 100
< 100                           * Review  of TORs
only. Other steps in
selection process are
exempted from prior
reviw.*)
Individual              >_ 50                                               . All  <.50
<  50                           . Review  of TORs
only. Other steps in
selection process are
exempted from prior
review.(*)
Goods and Equipment         >_ 250       ICB                . All                  < 50
50 to 250     L1B                . All
< 50        Int'l Shopping and   . None
< 25        National Shopping
(*) Exemption fiomprior review does not apply to consultants contracts below the thresholds in cases of: (i) single
sousee selection of firms, assignmnents of critical nature, and amendments to contas raising oniginal contract value
above the thresholds.
D. Disbursement
3.10 The loan proceeds would be disbursed over a five-year period, and would finance: (i) 100% of
expenditures (net of taxes) for international and local consultants' services (including studies, training,
workshop activities); (ii) 100%/ of foreign expenditures and 85% of local expenditures (net of taxes and
duties) for purchases of goods and equipment; (iii) 85% of expenditures (net of taxes and duties) for
subprojects under the Access Fund; and (iv) 20% of expenditures for recurrent costs. The tables followed
show the allocation of loan proceeds and the estimnated disbursement schedule. The closing date will be June
30, 2002.



29
Table 6: Disbursement Arrangements
(US$'OOO equivalent)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....                 .....          ....-. ....   
1. Consultant Services,   15,780     100%
Training and Studies
- PJ and others        12,100
-AM                     1,740
-CNM                      850
-DP                     1,090
2. Goods and Equipment     4,010     100% of foreign expenditure, and 85% of
- PJ and others         3,470     local expenditures
-CNM                     170
- DP                     370
3. Access Fund              800      85% of local expenditures
4. Incremental Operating      10     20%
Costs
5. Unallocated             1,900
TOTALS                  22,500
Table: Projected Disbursement by Fiscal Year
(US$ million equivalent)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..   -....   ..      ...    ..-.  .. . . . .  .............,  -:  -
BakFY         FY998        FY9     FY200      JY201 Y-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~., i.P.-.,.......... ,,  ::  ,,:- .,   .:.. ........ ............-: 
Annual           3.2        5.6        7.2        4.5       2.0
Cumulative         3.2        8.8       16.0       21.5       22.5
3.11   Retroactive Financin. Retroactive financing of up to US$2 million would be provided to meet
expenditures incurred between January 1, 1997 and date of loan signing (provided that this period does not
exceed one year), mainly to finance: (i) court performance improvement pilots in the selected districts (e.g.,
public campaign and seminars on the introduction of new court procedures and organization, evaluation
studies and workshops of the pilot experiences, training of court administration and basic informatics skills);
(ii) studies to review the recently established administrative system and to strengthen economic autonomy of
the Judiciary; (iii) baseline studies of Jueces de Paz and user surveys; (iv) consultancy for the AM in the
design of training programs for aspiring judges; (v) initial institutional development of DP; and (vi) and the
other areas as judged necessary.
3.12 Documentation of Expenditures. Disbursement for goods and equipments under contracts below
US$50,000 equivalent and technical assistance and training under contracts below US$100,000 for firms and
US$50,000 for individuals would be made against Statement of Expenditure (SOE) for which appropriate
documents would be retained by the PCU. Disbursement for contracts above these limits would be made on
the basis of full documentation. The required supporting documentation will be retained by the PCU for at



30
least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement is made.
This documentation will be made available for review by the auditors and by visiting Bank staff upon request.
E. Accounts and Audits
3.13   The PCU would maintain a set of consolidated records and accounts for each project component and
implementing agencies. All project accounts, including the special account and SOEs, would be audited
annually in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects
Financed by the World Bank". The Government will provide the Bank within six months of the end of each
fiscal year (December 31), an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request,
including a separate opinion by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, on disbursernent against
SOEs. The cost of this audit will be eligible for financing under the Bank loan
F. Monitoring Performance and Reporting
3.14 Performance Monitorini The key monitoring indicators and benchmarks for each project
component/subcomponent have been defined and are included in Annexes 2-3. In particular, the
administration of justice component will be monitored in four ways: (i) changes in the volume of cases
disposed; (ii) improvements in the quality ofjudicial decisions; (iii) economic analysis of reforms in judicial
administration; and (iv) overall improvements in judicial services from the viewpoints of users and more
broadly, of the general public.
3.15  First changes in the volume of cases disposed will be measured by using two indicators: congestion
index and congestion ratio. These indicators have been adopted to monitor judicial performance in Costa
Rica and Chile, and show the level of congestion and the speed of reducing the congestion. (For example,
the congestion ratio is the percentage of the cases sentenced or disposed as a proportion of the number of
new filings in each court in a specific year.) In April 1996, the Judiciary conducted a statistical survey with
the support of the INEI (National Statistical Institute) and is currently developing baseline performance
indicators. Based on the experience in other Latin American countries, it is expected that productivity would
increase by 15% in the first year and by 35% in the third year, compared to the level of 1995.'3 Second,
imnprovements in the quality ofjudicial decision will be evaluated annually at national and regional forums
(plenarios) with judges, and further improvement plans will be discussed. With the improved case
administration and training of court personnel, judges would have more time to devote to judicial decision-
making. In addition, improved training ofjudges would enhance the quality of decisions based on sound legal
reasoning. Third, the economic impact of reforms in judicial administration will be analyzed annually, both in
terms of: (i) the costs of providing judicial services; and (ii) the income to be generated by the Judiciary's own
efforts. And sly, the overall improvements in judicial services will be assessed through: (i) opinion surveys
on litigants, lawyers, businessmen, and the general public; and (ii) research and monitoring of the reform
process by various groups in the civil society, supported under the Access Fund.
3 Evaluacion Economico de la ReforMa Judicial en la Republica del Peru and Plan de Reforma del Poder Judicial de Peru,
prepared by INVERTEC IGT, July 1996. For exampie, the Superior Court in Santiago (Chile) achieved productivity
increase by 30%Yo during 1995, due to the measues to systematically reduce pending cases and cate a position of
professional Administrative Coordinator to assist the President of the Superior Court in adminimv matters.



31
3.16  Reportin . The PCU will prepare semi-annual progress reports for all components of the project,
based on the inputs from the four implementing agencies. These will describe: (i) progress achieved during
the previous six months in the implementation and in the achievement of the objectives of the project based
on the performance indicators; (ii) an assessment of the problems and issues derived from the implementation
of the project; (iii) updated implementation and disbursement schedules for the following six months; and (iv)
status of compliance with the legal covenants contained in the Loan Agreement. The reports will provide
timely and updated information on project implementation, highlighting issues and problem areas,
recommending actions and commenting on progress in executing previous recommendations.
3.17  To facilitate project implementation and gain support from stakeholders, the PCU would organize a
project launch workshop with the participation of the Judiciary, CNM, AM, DP representatives, and judges
from the selected districts (Lima, Arequipa, Cusco, Lambayeque, Piura). Because the first court performance
improvement pilot involving new court procedures and organization, court automation and related training,
remodeling recently began in the Lambayeque district, the experience of the Lambayeque pilot would be
evaluated and disseminated before the pilot is expanded to the other selected districts of similar size.
Moreover, in the third year of the project life, a mid-term review of the five-year program will be conducted
in addition to regular monitoring and reporting. Prior to this review, the PCU will conduct a comprehensive
evaluation aimed at assessing the progress in achieving the objectives of the project, as defined by the set of
agreed indicators and the prospects for successful project completion.
IV. ENVIRONMENTAL REQUIREMENTS
4.1   The proposed project aims to improve the enforceability of legal and contractual rights through
improved judicial administration and judicial decision-maldng, and increased access to alternative dispute
resolution mechanisms. As such, the project is not expected to adversely affect the environinent. In the
medium term, the project could have a positive impact on the environment as it reinforces the effectiveness of
legal regulation over social and economic activities. An effective legal framework is a key instrument for
deterring environmentally damaging activities or seeking remedies.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1   The project is expected to improve the capacity of the judiciary to build and sustain its independent
role, to improve the enabling environment for private sector development, and to improve the access to and
the quality of justice for the citizenry. More specific benefits include increased courtroom productivity and
efficiency, thereby reducing the private and social costs of dispute resolution and improve equity in access to
justice. Benefits also include reductions in the time of delay in court actions, reduced case backlogs, and
improved quality of decision making by judges and justice of the peace.
5.2   First, the project would support measures to improve economic and political independence of the
Judiciary. Although budget allocation is partly a function of overall resource constraints, the Judiciary must
be able to seek and obtain the resources needed to meet its responsibilities, use those resources prudently, and



32
account for their use. It must be also able to raise separate resources (from user charges) to secure its
financial base. The low salary level of the judicial sector that hinders attracting capable personnel, poor
infiastructure etc.-these problems are partially caused by the inability of the Judiciary to manage and assign
resources efficiently and effectively. The project would strengthen financial management, implement new fee
structure, and provide merit-based bonus incentives for judges, administrative and court personnel.
Moreover, in supporting the CNM, the project is expected to assist in building a stronger, depoliticized, and
merit-based system of selection, appointment, advancement and removal of judges. Second, the project is
designed to strengthen the functioning of selected. fundamental pieces of the justice system; the Judiciary,
CNM, AM, and DP. To this end, discrete activities have been identified: e.g., modernization of court
management, judge training, transparent and impartial selection and promotion process for judges,
infiastructure improvement. With improved incentive structures, a reorganized, modem court system, and a
performance monitoring system put in place, the project would contribute to strengthening the functioning of
selected, key judicial institutions in an integrated manner. In particular, the strengthening of the CNM
(selection and evaluation ofjudges), AM (udicial training), and DP (defense of citizens' rights) is expected to
have spill-over effects in the entire judicial sector. Third, although the project will not involve criminal courts
or the TGC, the resources saved by the increased efficiency in the other areas may be devoted to these
aspects of the judicial system. Additionally, better civil courts would improve the overall image of the
Judiciary, thus increasing popular trust in the institutions. This is closely related to the second point above.
In this way, the project would bring about positive externalities to the entire justice system, including criminal
justice and TGC. Fourth, the project is designed to build the social capacity for demanding and monitoring
the progress in judicial reform and judicial performance by attempting'to broadly involve the civil society--
such as bar associations, NGOs, universities, the business community, and the other users--in the evaluation
of reform process and outcome (e.g., in the form of opinion surveys, user surveys, workshops). Such efforts
would result in greater awareness of the society in the rule of law and the role and importance of the justice
systemn, a better system of checks and balances as provided in the new Constitution and eventually contribute
to achieving a long-term goal ofjudicial independence, integrity and accountability in Peru. Fifth, and finally,
the project, by supporting several key improvements in the justice system, is expected to assist in preventing
and correcting corrupt practices, making for greater transparency and accountability in the conduct of public
affairs.
5.3    Economic Benefits. Because this is a primarily technical assistance project, it is not as easily
susceptible to cost-benefit analysis. Nevertheless, a simplified analysis was attempted to capture
quantitatively a dimension of benefits expected from the reform associated with the proposed project. 14The
evaluation of economic viability considered the Bank project as a part of the investment and technical
assistance required for comprehensive judicial modernization (about US$60 million for five years, e.g., by
including investments in the judicial districts other than those selected for the proposed project). A simple
model was developed that takes account of the projected demand forjudicial services (assuming a 3.5%
growth rate per year), court productivity (in processing and resolving cases), and increases in court
productivity expected under the reform scenario. Unit costs for typical courts were calculated, and then the
14 The analysis is based on a simple model to measure benefits associated with court productivity improvement Under the
"with" reform scenario, the future demand for judicial services would be satisfied and bacldogs would be eliminated through
a progressive increase in court productivity and the limited creation of tmnsitowy and/or permanent courts; under the
"without" reform scenario, these would be achieved primarily through the creation of the larger number of transitory and
permanent courts because court productivity will remain at the 1995 level. For more detailed analysis and assumption, see
Evaluacion Economica de la Reforma Judicial en la Republica de Peru, iNVERTEC IGT, July 1996.



33
costs required for satisfying the projected demand for judicial services and eliminating the accumulated
backlogs were estimated for both the "with" and "without" reform scenarios. The saving to be generated
under the "with" reform scenario is considered benefits to the proposed reform activities. The result of
economic analysis suggests significant direct benefits, US$96.5 million of a net present value of the
incremental benefits (using a 11 percent discount rate). This does not include indirect benefits, such as
possible increases in foreign investment and reactivation in domestic business transactions, greater
institutional autonomy of the Judiciary, potential reduction in corruption, and the other quantitative benefits
described in the above para. 5.2. The other potential benefit that is not captured in this analysis includes the
positive fiscal impact resulting from the Judiciary's improved income generating capacity, through the
implementation of the better judicial fee structures and new forms of resource mobilization, to be supported
under the proposed project. 15
B. Project Risks and Safefuards
5.4    Despite new opportunities and impetus provided by recent developments, the project, within a very
sensitive sector, faces challenges and potential risks. Major risks include: (i) medium-term sustainability of
the project; (ii) a lack of solid participatory approach and coordination among key entities and agencies
involved in the reformn; (iii) weak institutional capacity for the implementation of the project; (iv) resistance to
change from key groups, including judges, court personnel, businessmen and litigants, with vested interests in
the current system; and (v) political interference and potential instability in the project environment. The
project intends to deal with such risks as follows:
5.5 First, regarding the issue on medium-term sustainabilit, Bank preparation has been placing special
emphasis on the engagement of key players, who would be responsible for the implementation of a project, in
the reform process. Efforts are being made in identifying a core group of reform-minded judges to assume
leadership in the design of the pilot programs in the selected districts. The project also supports activity to
promote the participation of the civil society in monitoring progress in judicial reform to increase the chances
of sustainable change. Moreover, in regard to the project, the implementing agencies have agreed, as will be
reflected in the policy letter, to continue and strengthen a participatory approach in project implementation.
These aspects will be evaluated in the project's annual reviews (to which representatives of stakeholders will
be invited). Second, the issue of coordination is being addressed by the establishment, prior to negotiations,
of an appropriate coordination mechanism at both policy and operational levels. Furthermore, throughout
preparation, a number of joint meetings and workshops have been organized to discuss specific reform
proposals which have bearings on various actors. Third, to address the issue on weak institutional capacity,
the administration ofjustice component takes a phased, pilot approach, starting in the Lambayeque and Lima
districts, where there are indications of strong leadership commnitment and a sense of reform ownership
amnong judges with tenure. Before expanding the court performance improvement pilots to the other selected
districts, these experiences would be evaluated and the lessons gained would be disseminated and
incorporated into the subsequent pilots. Moreover, the Japanese PHRD grant has been provided to set up a
functioning PCU, which lializes various agencies involved in the project and ensures the consistency of
activities. Fourth, the issue of resistance to change is expected to be minimzed through the implementation
of a participatory approach, with project financing, to involve affected groups in each of the selected districts.
5 The preliminay study by GERPRO S.A. contracted by the Judiciary indicates a possibility of increasing the Judiciaxy's proper
income from 19 million soles (about $7 million) up to 46 million soles (about $17 million), in constant 1996 prices.



34
5.6   Lasdy, the issue of political interference and potential instability in the project environment. This is a
highly sensitive and complex matter. An effective Judiciary requires that it function free from political
interference to ensure the impartiality and observance ofjudicial decisions. It is widely recognized that there
is no strong tradition of an independent Judiciary in Peru as other LDCs, although important-but limited-
developments in restoring some balance of power may be seen in the establishment and operation of the
CNM and the DP. In particular, it is reported that interference continues to exist in military control ofjudicial
processes and anti-terrorism legislation (outside the scope of the project). The project intends to help the
"depolitization" of the Judiciary in Peru at different levels. First, the project aims at supporting the CNM to
move towards a merit-based system of judicial recruitment and removals. To this end, a coordination
mechanism was established between the AM and the CNM, and the principle of transparency, openness, and
contestability was agreed on the AM's training program for aspiring judges and technical evaluation of
tenured judges, as spelled out in the policy letter. Second, to strengthen independence in decision-making,
the project would support training efforts of the AM to enhance the independent role of the judge and
reaffirm a "culture" of independence. Third, the project, mainly through the Access Fund, is expected to
facilitate the development of a constituency in support ofjudicial reform as a means to demand and pressure
for sustainable institutional changes. Fourth, other project interventions such as improvement in the
administration of the courts would indirectly strengthen independence by improving the standing of the
Judiciary in the community.
C. Participatory Arpnroach and Sustainability
5.7   For judicial reform, and any institutional reform in general, to be sustainable and viable over the long-
run, it requires consensus and a broad participation from the legal community as well as the civil society.
During preparation, a carefully-designed participatory approach has been taken to build an internal consensus
leading to reform. A series of workshops and meetings were organized and continued to be planned for: (i)
judges and key agencies involved in the project (seeking the cooperation and consensus on the project design,
and evaluating and sharing the lessons gained from the court performance improvement pilot in Chiclayo and
Lima); and (ii) more broadly the civil society, including bar associations, NGOs, the business community, and
other users of the system (aimed at information sharing, consultation, and evaluation on reform progress).
5.8   The sustainability of the project will depend in part on the continued commitment of the Judiciary
itself and the government to judicial reform Interest in this comprehensive reform program is shared between
the Executive and Judiciary. The Executive views judicial reform as an integral component of its plan of
government, supporting its economic reform objective as well as its aim to modernize state institutions.



35
Table 8: Participatory Approach
....   ..   ..   ...  - .-.-. ::..   :....
Beneficiaries:
Judges                     - IS, CON, COL             - COL (participation in     - COL (continued
(workshops for diagnosis    project activities:       collaboration to
and proposals for project  administration of justice  sustain the reform
design: administration of  component)                 beyond the project
justice component)                                     period)
Civil society (public, legal    - IS                  - IS, COL                   - IS, COL
& business communities)    (meetings, opinion surves)   (articipation in project  (continued
actvities: access tojustice    monitoring of reform
component (e.g., support to   process)
Juces de Paz,research &
monitoring of reform under
the Access Fund)
Intermediaiy NGOs:
NGOs                       - IS, COL                  - CON, COL                  - COL
(workshops and meetings    (participation in project  (continued
for information sharing and   activities: access to justice    monitoring the
diagnosis: access to justice    component (e.g., support to  reform process
component)                 Jueces de Paz, research &  beyond the project
monitoring of reform under  period)
the Access Fund)
Academic institutions:
Universities, research and    - IS, CON               - CON, COL                  - COL
other academic institutions.  (intemviews on training  (participation in project  (continued
needs ofjudges)            actvities: judicial tlaining    collaboration to
and access to justice      sustain the reform
components (e.g., support to  beyond the project
Jueces de Paz, research &  period)
monitoring under the
Access Fund)
Other donors:
IDB, USAID, UNDO,,         -IS, CON                   - COL                       It is expected that the
European Union etc.        (oint missions with IDB,    (cofinancing expected from    reform would become
close consultation with    IDB and European Union;   self-sustainable.
USAID, European Union,    collaboration with the other
and UNDP; plus             interested donors)
organization of local donors
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ m eetinO              _  _   _  _  _   _  _
Not . . .   -       ...
Fom avoIvem ~ xt~   of  eholera  Include  W brm ations ating (..);......ta.......O.....d
vollaboration (COL) ~   . ..          .. .



36
t .      0:                              ; ....     ...                        ..............  ..   ..   ...  ..     ....   ...... ............-:;40;44XTt--4:CC,::;;    .:t-S-4-4;;A-;.;;   -:T:T-S-:-
. . -. , - , , -   : X.- :  :-t--lQ. .      . . . . . .  d t   t:.X-.  t..:
Defensor dei Neblo.    N        acadmcs and oter aio es    d (                        atR               h
p      M                                                                                               . .   ".   -  '"" ' ' ''''. .   . . .
donor representatives    g, 1B and EupE - ..a...:... an......   .U.in.)wee
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .                       . . . . .   . . .   . . . . .   . .   . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .          t   ,,... .   ,. . .   . ..
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .   - -<.. . .. . .        . .    . . . . . -.  . .
auk'ffthoet- oig                                                       Jtice  .op ..   It core .v--             TyXi
.. . . . . ....                                                                     ...... ....  s  
6     ay.) Agreem    lents reache   aime ngtatintonlys:  rainsaigadcnuttin   u   loassigtedge
(a)o      maninetainjadgc  toprefrat e co          g the m topjey cori atng  acnite roPeUi wihsa ffing , fuano tios ap ind
hng s,adiet iftu ne acgce ptal  tof pthenta leadesanguk;                hem        oisi lvd            dcaiiy
e(bceny reaind  noia ilater  th dcan   Decmbeo 31,t1e97,    coisncy        antftodvalaatprocesimpatoandaresultsoo
dspln ysythem   judio  a tro rainin  and thstric e of thLAa  demiaqu; chpomple.ofsuchgevalduat ionntlaerithn
Mnrooarch a     1, c 998;itrnentrmnjdesR ecasrngvioers of        ththhe   Bafo n kpo s onac t ohi evalpurticipand ts
w recdvde nommerkndagroupsfodscson and prheirpan            ancpablyes tthBand, rcm e ation werpndte presete  prgat the
Ths  tokhop resma tining a selecte  dsucicss;n   ofre   h   xsec   f  I  togmtvto   n
(cm    m     aitm ntamong jugitn efr;( the AMaheeuigh degre fctor nsesu b  ar    on w the fctonprbms and q   alfcations t
..e ..a cceenable ...stron                       the                         r
motivation...... of. the, patcptdjde   r   otyt   eto,adteewrsosra                              ndte ldt   n
imporance ........t..appoah  urngth  stag     ...f. Ref Iormdsg.Tedans   n   rpsl  rsne
at the workshops have been incorporated..in the five-year....... ref .r . plnt.epotdb         .h.Bnk.d..le
donors.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.................
(b)  rtain,not lter tan Deember31, 197, aconsutanta..                      to      "A evaluate the impac  and7 reutso
March 31, 1998; thereafter excha~~~M, Ong  vies..th.heBa..ontheevluaionandit
the remaining selected districts;pre
(c)  maintain in the AM  an executive director~~~~~.... an   bor  with...... .ucin    n   qaiiain
acceptable~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...      ...... to the Bank,::::::    ::::: ;;, _....-..........    



37
(d)    provide all necessary information to enable the PCU to prepare the progress reports;
(e)    participate in the annual reviews.
(2) CNM shall:
(a)    provide all necessary information to enable the Judiciary to prepare the progress reports;
(b)    participate in the annual reviews;
(3) DP shall:
(a)    provide all necessary information to enable the Judiciary to prepare the progress reports;
(b)    participate in the annual reviews;
(4) PCU shall:
(a)   furnish to the Bank, not later than February 28 and August 31 of each year, progress reports
on the project, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank including an implementation
plan of the project for the upcoming semester (para. 3.16);
(b)    conduct annual reviews during the last quarter of each year to focus on:
* qualitative and quantitative improvements in judicial services;
* implementation of new court organization;
* status ofjudicial tenure, including selection and appointment, ratification and removal of
judges by CNM;
* effectiveness and impact of AM's training activities;
* demand, effectiveness and impact of the Access Fund;
* effectiveness and impact of training activities for the Justices of Peace;
. effectiveness and impact of DP activities;
* effectiveness of coordination among implementing agencies;
* progress in the improvement of economic and non-economic incentives for judges and
other judicial personnel;
* consensus building and participatory efforts and results in the implementation of the
project;
* the proposed annual investment program for the then upcoming year; and
* any other relevant development or event which may affect the efficient execution of the
project or the attainment of its objectives.
The PCU shall invite to such annual reviews a group acceptable to the Bank of
representatives from the judges, court personnel and other stakeholders. In the event of
unsatisfactory progress in project implementation or in the achievement of progress
objectives, take any necessary action as deternined by the Bank;



38
(c)   maintain a consolidated set of records and separate accounts for the project resources and
expenditures;
(d)   appoint independent auditors to audit project expenditures in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank; certified copies of such reports to be sent to the Bank,
within six months after the end of the Governments' fiscal year (para. 3.13);
(e)   supervise procurement of goods and works and contracting of consultants' services in
accordance with Bank procedures (paras. 3.5-3.9);
(f)   operate the Access Fund in accordance with the agreed operational guidelines. Ensure that
the advisory panel are formed by experts with terms of reference, experience and
qualifications acceptable to the Bank. Furnish to the Bank quarterly reports on the
performance of the Access Fund;
6.3   As condition of Board presentation: (a) the statement of policy and objectives, acceptable to the
Bank, would be signed and sent to the Bank, and (b) the final draft of the operational guidelines for the
Access Fund, acceptable to the Bank, would be sent to the Bank.
6.4   As condition of effectiveness; (a) the operational guidelines for the Access Fund would be adopted by
implementing agencies, and the Advisory Panel for the Access Fund would be appointed; (b) the Operational
Manual for the project would be approved by the implementing agencies and the PCU would be established
with the functions and responsibilities specified in the Operational Manual; and (c) the subsidiary agreements
with CNM, AM, and DP would be executed.
6.5   As condition for disbursements, for project expenditures related to new court procedures and
organization and court automation (component 1-(2)) outside the Lambayeque district, a satisfactory
evaluation of the Lambayeque pilot has been carried out, and after review of such evaluation, the Bank and
the Judiciary agree to expand the pilot to the remaining selected districts.



39
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Statement of Policy and Objectives of the Reform
Annex 2: Key Monitoring Indicators
Annex 3: Judicial Performance Indicators
Annex 4: Organization of the Judiciary
Annex 5: Academia de la Magistratura
Annex 6: Consejo Nacional de la Magistratura
Annex 7: Defensoria del Pueblo
Annex 8: Pilot Program for New Court Organization
(Modulo Corporativo)
Annex 9: Project Cost Summary



40              Annex 1
Declaracion de Politicas, Objetivos y
Acciones en Relaci6n a la Reforma
Judicial y el Proyecto de Inversion
Financiado por el Banco Mundial



41
Declaraci6n de Politicas, Objetivos y
Acciones en Relaci6n a la Reforma Judicial y el Proyecto de Inversi6n
Financiado por el Banco Mundial
Esta declaraci6n se compone de cuatro secciones:
A. Antecedentes: visi6n y estrategia sectorial;
B. Proyecto de inversi6n Banco Mundial (Proyecto BM);
C. Coordinaci6n de los entes ejecutores; y
D. Metodologia participativa de la reforma y ei proyecto BM.
AA .   Antecedentes: visi6n y estrategia sectorial.
1.    Un Estado moderno requiere de una vigencia efectiva del derecho, un ordenamiento
juridico actualizado y un buen servicio de justicia. Estas son condiciones indispensables
para crear un entorno favorable a la inversi6n y el comercio, aliviar la pobreza e incorporar
a todos los sectores sociales en el proceso productivo del pais. Lo dicho asegurara no
solamente la estabilidad y eficiencia de las transacciones econ6micas sino tambien la
promoci6n del empleo y la mejora de los ingresos y nivel de vida de la poblaci6n.
2. En los uitimos afios se han emprendido reformas y acciones concretas para combatir los
problemas que aquejan a la administraci6n de justicia a fin de mejorar el servicio, por ello
se han realizado los siguientes hechos:
(a) Un nuevo marco constitucional con la creaci6n del Consejo Nacional de la
Magistratura, el Tribunal Constitucional y la Defensoria del Pueblo.
(b) Una nueva y modema estructura organica para el Poder Judicial con la separaci6n de la
funci6n jurisdiccional de la administrativa.
(c) La redefinici6n de la Corte Suprema como tribunal de casaci6n.
(d) Reconocimiento de la justicia de paz como instancia fundamentalmente conciliadora y
su designaci6n por elecci6n popular.
(e) El reconocimiento de la jurisdicci6n especial de las Comunidades Campesinas y
Nativas.
(f) Nueva legislaci6n procesal civil concediendo a los magistrados una funci6n mas activa
en la direcci6n de los procesosjudiciales y potenciando a la conciliaci6n.
(g) Nueva y moderna legislacion sobre arbitraje.
() Desjudicializacin a traves de la transferencia de competencia en asuntos no
contenciosos a las notarias.
(k) Una nueva academia de la magistratura encargada delI perfeccionamiento y
actua izacion de los magi strados, asi como de la fonrmaci6n de aspirantes para la carrera
p judicial
,()El diseno e implantacion de un plan de descentralizacion tanto jurisdiccional como
administrativo



42
(m) Un incremento sustancial de recursos presupuestarios y mejoras salariales para
magistrados.
3.    Es nuestro compromiso, y venimos trabajando arduamente en ello, hacer realidad
los cambios efectuados en los planos constitucional, legal y administrativo. Ello conileva
un proceso de reforma que no es inmediato sino de largo aliento. Para este proceso de
reforma, hemos sefialado lineamientos de politica y objetivos para la administraci6n de
justicia con areas y acciones de corto, mediano y largo plazo.
4.     Es nuestro objetivo general brindar un servicio de justicia eficiente, eficaz,
predecible, accesible y que se desarrolle con equidad, logrando el mas alto grado de
confianza de los usuarios y de respeto de los derechos ciudadanos. Para ello tenemos como
politica y objetivos especificos:
(a) Reestablecer una integridad y regla etica en los magistrados v funcionarios judiciales.
A tal efecto: (i) llevaremos adelante acciones y medidas concretas para motivar a jueces
y personal judicial a efecto que se internalice en ellos la alta misi6n que se les ha
encomendado y lo indebido e ilegal de la solicitud y/o recepci6n de dadivas por realizar
labores judiciales; (ii) fortaleceremos la labor de control y fiscalizaci6n del OCMA x a
trav6s de ello facilitar el control y la fiscalizaci6n por parte del usuario.
(b) Fortalecer la autonomia del Poder Judicial tanto en su aspecto institucional como la
independencia personal de los magistrados.
A tal efecto: (i) fortaleceremos y apoyaremos al Consejo Nacional de la Magistratura en
su condicion de organismo aut6nomo para la selecci6n, promocion o ascenso. v
correspondiente nombramiento. asi como para los procesos de destituci6n y ratificacion
de magistrados. (ii) posibilitaremos que la Corte Suprema cumpla su rol fundamental de
dirigir la politica jurisdiccional; (iii) apoyaremos a la Academia de la Magistratura en
su misi6n de formar magistrados que internalicen su rol independiente como parte de un
servicio de justicia eficaz y eficiente al usuario; (iv) respetaremos y haremos respetar
las garantias de independencia personal y de permanencia en el cargo. Garantizamos
un proceso de ratificaci6n con audiencia del magistrado y de protecci6n contra la
remoci6n arbitraria; (v) facilitaremos el financiamiento del P.J. con recursos aut6nomos
a traves de tasas judiciales con el resultado de otorgar al Poder Judicial la
administraci6n autonoma de dichos recursos; y (vi) continuaremos las medidas de
mejoras remunerativas de los magistrados.
(c) Facilitar el acceso a la iusticia a la ciudadania. v en particular a los sectores mas
marginados social. econ6mica v geoUraficamente.
A tal efecto: (i) continuaremos con la descentralizaci6n tanto jurisdiccional como
administrativa; (ii) impulsaremos la reducci6n de los costos directos e indirectos de la
justicia; (iii) fomentaremos y apoyaremos los mecanismos alternativos de resoluci6n de
U ponflictos incluyendo el desarrollo de la justicia de paz y la justicia arbitral; y (iv)
favorecemos la justicia consuetudinaria dentro de una concepcion unitaria y plural del



43
Derecho Peruano conforme a lo que dispone el articulo 149 de la Constituci6n del
Estado.
(d) Mejorar la eficiencia del servicio de iusticia en particular buscando la reducci6n de la
demora v los costos de la justicia.
A tal efecto: (i) implementaremos un programa de reorganizaci6n del despacho judicial
incluyendo una mayor eficiencia funcional en el uso de recursos humanos y materiales;
(ii) implementaremos un programa de mejora de incentivos, incluyendo incrementos
remunerativos, para magistrados y otros funcionarios judiciales: y (iii) facilitaremos la
ecuada implantaci6n del nuevo codigo procesal civil, mejoras edilicias, capacitaci6n
focalizada y una reorganizacion del despacho judicial.
(e) Mejorar el nivel de rendimiento profesional de los magistrados.
A tal efecto: (i) fortaleceremos y apoyaremos a la Academia de la Magistratura en su
doble rol de preparar aspirantes y capacitar a magistrados actuales; (ii) promoveremos
la realizaci6n de reuniones plenarias a fin de uniformizar jurisprudencia; (iii)
promoveremos la mejora de la ensenianza legal en el pais; (iv) facilitaremos el acceso de
los magistrados a informacion legal incluyendo legislaci6n y jurisprudencia; e (v)
implementaremos un programa de incentivos no econ6micos para magistrados que se
destaquen en su labor (becas, publicaciones, premiaciones).
(f) Fomentar v apoyar la participacin v el consenso para la reforma de la justicia con los
maaistrados y la sociedad civil.
A tal efecto: (i) profundizaremos los procesos de dialogo, consulta y colaboraci6n con
magistrados, universidades, organizaciones no gubernamentales, etc. con objeto de
tener una coalici6n de apoyo y promoci6n de la reforma; y (ii) fomentaremos y
apoyaremos iniciativas del sector publico y privado tendientes a crear y fortalecer en
nuestra ciudadania una verdadera cultura civica de respeto a la ley y capacidad de
demanda de un servicio de justicia adecuado.
5.    El Anexo I de esta carta contiene una matriz de lineamientos generales de reforma
a corto, mediano y largo plazo y areas y acciones de reforma que busca implementar los
objetivos mencionados.
B.    Proyecto de Inversi6n Banco Mundial (Proyecto BM)
6.    Dentro de la vision y estrategia definida para la reforma judicial, el Estado Peruano
ha solicitado el apoyo financiero y tecnico del Banco Mundial en relaci6n a un conjunto
integral de actividades e inversiones prioritarias tendientes a mejorar la calidad, eficiencia,
integridad, independencia y acceso del servicio de justicia con enfasis en las areas civil,
fcomercial y laboral. Dichas actividades e inversiones resultan de un dialogo extenso y



44
profundo entre las autoridades del Estado Peruano y el Banco Mundial, teniendo en cuenta
analisis y estudios sectoriales, consultas y opiniones a sectores interesados y afectados
incluyendo los magistrados, personal auxiliar, academicos, litigantes, organizaciones no
gubernamentales y usuarios en general.
La Corte Suprema de Justicia del Poder Judicial apoya esta asistencia del Banco Mundial.
El Anexo 2 a esta carta contiene un sumario de los objetivos y las actividades e inversiones
del Proyecto BM.
La calidad asi como la independencia, eficiencia y eficacia del servicio de justicia
se fortalecera con el apovo financiero y tecnico brindado al Consejo Nacional de la
Magistratura, la Academia de la Magistratura y la Oficina de Control de la Magistratura.
Primeramente, reconocemos la necesidad de un sistema de selecci6n y nombramiento,
evaluaci6n, ratificaci6n y promoci6n de magistrados que sea independiente, meritorio.
transparente y objetivo, evitando todo tipo de influencias politicas o de otra indole.
A tal efecto, la Constituci6n ha dispuesto que el Consejo Nacional de la Magistratura tenga
la responsabilidad de implementar tal sistema. El Consejo Nacional de la Magistratura
reconoce que es la primera vez en la historia del Peru que se opta por alejar de las
influencias y presiones politico partidarias de los procesos de selecci6n, nombramiento,
ratificaci6n y remoci6n .
El Consejo Nacional de la Magistratura se instala el lero. de marzo de 1995 despues de
promulgarse su Ley Organica - ley 26397- . Hasta la fecha ha cubierto las vacantes de
Fiscalias Supremas y de Vocalias y Fiscalias Superiores de todos los distritos judiciales del
pais, quedando un remanente de plazas por haberse declarado desiertas.
8.    El Consejo Nacional de la Magistratura con la experiencia obtenida en los
concursos ya celebrados, ha formulado autocriticas. Reconoce como consecuencia de esas
reflexiones, la necesidad de afinar criterios y perfeccionar las reglas y procedimientos de
selecci6n y nombramiento. A tal efecto emprenderi, con asistencia del proyecto BM, un
programa de desarrollo institucional que le permitira lograr excelencia y eficiencia tecnica
en el cumplimiento de su modelo constitucional.
La segunda funci6n del Consejo, la destituci6n de los magistrados (Jueces y Fiscales) se ha
cumplido simultaneamente a la de seleccion y nombramiento. Se ha dispuesto la apertura
de proceso a 48 magistrados en base a las solicitudes de destituci6n recibidas, 29 de ellos
con resoluci6n de destituci6n y estando en pleno procesamiento los 19 restantes.
El Consejo no ha iniciado el proceso de ratificaci6n, que es la tercera funci6n o atribucion
que le concede la Constituci6n. Las razones son claras:
(a) La situaci6n de provisionalidad y suplencias de los cargosjudiciales que alcanza
a mas del 80%.
No puede ratificarse al magistrado nombrado provisionalmente o suplente
k)N



45
(c) Debe definirse previamente el sentido de la norma constitucional relativa a la
frase "...cada siete afnos" (art. 154, inc. 2).
9.    Reconocemos la profunda necesidad que tienen los magistrados peruanos de una
formaci6n y capacitaci6n integral. A tal efecto, se establecio la Academia de la
Magistratura que se encuentra en pleno funcionamiento a partir de 1996. La AM esta
comprometida en una capacitaci6n integral del magistrado, no a una mera repetici6n de la
ensefianza universitaria, involucrando primariamente los aspectos de actitudes y
habilidades de los magistrados. Bajo el proyecto BM, la AM implementara programas
anuales de capacitaci6n de jueces civiles, laborales y mixtos, en areas y temas prioritarios
mayor impacto produzcan en la mejora de la calidad del servicio. La AM  se
/  compromete a implementar dichos programas anuales a traves de metodos costo-efectivos
(contrataci6n competitiva de servicios de terceros) que mejor aprovechen la capacidad
profesional existente en los distritos seleccionados.
10.   El Secretario Ejecutivo de la Comisi6n Ejecutiva del Poder Judicial deleg6 las
atribuciones que le transferia la Ley 26623 a una Comisi6n de Gobierno y Reorganizacion
para que conduzca la Academia de la Magistratura. Una funci6n de la Academia de la
Magistratura es la de capacitar a los aspiraintes a magistrados, con la finalidad de disponer
de un grupo humano tecnicamente calificado para ser posteriormente elegible por el CNM.
Para lograr este objetivo de una manera transparente y rigurosa desde el punto de vista
acaddmico. Ia Academia de la Magistratura va a realizar exAmenes de admisio6n para
seleccionar los abogados que deseen postular a los cursos de formaci6n de aspirantes. El
examen de admisi6n a los cursos de aspirantes sera calificado de manera an6nima y sus
f      resultados serin publicados. Una vez admitidos a la Academia de la Magistratura. los
aspirantes asistirin a un programa de entrenamiento consistente en diferentes m6dulos. Su
,I,         desempefio seri evaluado peri6dicamente durante el curso del programa de entreniamienito -
m6dulo a m6dulo por la Academia de la Magistratura. El sistema de evaluacion en todas
sus etapas serA an6nimo. Aquellos que resulten aprobados serin elegibles para postular a un
concurso para un nombramiento judicial. Dicho concurso seri efectuado por el Consejo
Nacional de la Magistratura, quien hara una  selecci6n transparente. independiente.
meritoria y objetiva.
11.   La Academia de la Magistratura tiene ademas la responsabilidad de hacer la
evaluaci6n de idoneidad tecnico - profesional, juridica, de conocimiento de los magistrados
en actual ejercicio. Esta evaluaci6n tiene por finalidad contribuir a determinar las
necesidades de capacitaci6n. Los magistrados provisionales o suplentes que desaprueben la
evaluaci6n podran ser separados por la Comisi6n Ejecutiva del Poder Judicial. En cambio.
los magistrados titulares que desaprueben la primera prueba seguiran un curso academico
complementario financiado por el Estado y estaian obligados a tomar una segunda prueba
escrita por la Academia. Aquellos magistrados que resulten desaprobados en la segunda
prueba podrin ser separados por la Comisi6n Ejecutiva del Poder Judicial. Toda prueba de
evaluaci6n tendri caricter an6nimo y su calificaci6n y revisi6n s6lo podrx ser efectuada
por la Academia de la Magistratura de acuerdo a criterios t6cnicos y transparentes. Las
ersonas evaluadas en la segunda prueba podrin solicitar revisi6n de los resultados de la
isma a la Academia.



46
12.   Reconocemos que el magistrado, ademas de ser independiente y competente, debe
guardar una conducta etica intachable. Para ello consideramos que es esencial realizar
acciones concretas que esten orientadas a reducir las posibilidades de corrupci6n. En
atencion a ello, el Poder Judicial ha reorganizado los juzgados bajo un nuevo modelo lo
cual permite un mejor control del despacho judicial; se ha racionalizado y reubicado al
personal auxiliar; y, ha apoyado la tarea de la OCMA con el fin de estimular y apoyar a los
jueces integros y sancionar a aquellos que incurran en conductas contrarias a la etica.
Concretamente en este uiltimo affo se ha descentralizado el control a las diversas Cortes
Superiores en las que viene funcionando comisiones distritales de la OCMA.
13.   Para mejorar la eficiencia del servicio de justicia, el Proyecto BM  apoya el
fortalecimiento y desconcentraci6n de la gesti6n organica - administrativa del Poder
Judicial. En este sentido se llevaran a cabo acciones dirigidas a reforzar la capacidad
gerencial y modemizar la gesti6n judicial. A nivel de los juzgados. el Proyecto BM apoya
la implantaci6n, de un nuevo modelo de organizaci6n funcional comenzando en los
distritos judiciales de Lima y Lambayeque. Con la implantaci6n de este modelo se espera
resolver el problema de la morosidad judicial, mejorando la productividad judicial; a su vez
este modelo generaui procesos judiciales mas transparentes. creando con ello mayores
condiciones para el control de la corrupci6n. Por otro lado, el Proyecto BM contribuirA en
ia sistematizaci6n, uniformizaci6n v mejora de la calidad de la jurisprudencia.
especialmente en materia civil y laboral. La Comisi6n Ejecutiva ha iniciado, y continuara.
un plan de mejora de los incentivos para los magistrados incluvendo un incremento en los
ingresos, a traves de los bonos jurisdiccionales.
14.   En relaci6n al acceso a la justicia, el Proyecto BM  fortalecera instituciones
existentes asi como instituciones nuevas que facilitan la resoluci6n de conflictos
particularmente de los grupos mas marginados. Primeramente. se apoyari a los jueces de
paz a traves de una capacitaci6n focalizada: asistencia tecnica para implementar el marco
regulatorio de la justicia de paz; y, estudios y encuestas sobre el desempeibo de los jueces
de paz. En segundo lugar, se apoyari a la Defensoria del Pueblo a traves de asistencia
tecnica para el fortalecimiento institucional, asi como asistencia especializada para el
medio ambiente y comunidades nativas. Asimismo contribuiri con las campanias de
difusi6n a nivel nacional sobre las funciones de la Defensoria y al equipamiento
informatico.
Por ultimo, el Proyecto incluye un fondo destinado a financiar iniciativas del sector privado
tendientes a promover mecanismos altemativos de resoluci6n de conflictos y desarrollar la
capacidad de la sociedad civil para demandar y monitorear el desempeno judicial.
C.   Coordinaci6n.
<  15.   El proyecto BM  tiene cuatro entes ejecutores: Poder Judicial, a traves de la
omisi6n Ejecutiva, la Academia de la Magistratura, el Consejo Nacional de la
tMagistratura y la Defensoria del Pueblo. Sin perjuicio de su propia autonomia y



47
responsabilidad de ejecuci6n, dichos entes mencionados convinieron en establecer una
unidad coordinadora con el personal y funciones descritos en el manual operativo del
Proyecto BM. Asimismo, cada uno de los entes ejecutores ha nombrado un representante a
los fines del Proyecto BM y a efectos de sostener reuniones mensuales para intercambiar
opiniones sobre la marcha del Proyecto BM.
D.   Metodologia Participativa.
16.   Reconocemos que el exito y sostenibilidad de la reforma y el Proyecto BM
dependen, no solamente del apoyo financiero y politico, sino del grado de participaci6n por
parte de los magistrados particularmente y de la sociedad civil en general. Como
consecuencia de ello, cada ente ejecutor ha involucrado a jueces y otras partes interesadas
en el proceso de formulaci6n y diseflo de las actividades del Proyecto BM. Reconocemos
ademas que dicha metodologia participativa debe perfeccionarse y profundizarse mucho
mas. A tal efecto cada ente ejecutor se compromete a implementar sus actividades propias
del Proyecto BM a traves de una metodologia de participaci6n activa.
Lima, 22 de agosto de 1997.
Victor Ra   stilo Castillo                   R6ger Rodriguez Iturri
Presidente
Ca si6n Ejecutiva del Poder Judicial         Consejo Nacional de la Magistratura
Jorge San5ti an ae Noriega                   Franci   uiguren Praeli
Defenr del Pueblo                            Di        eneral
mia de la Magistratura



48
Anexo 1
MATRIZ DE LINEAMIENTOS DE LA REFORMA A CORTO, MEDIANO Y
LARGO PLAZO
AREAS DE            CORTO PLAZO   MEDIANO PLAZO LARGO PLAZO
REFORMA
Educaci6n Legal y   Fortalecimiento     Contar con un       Elevar la calidad de
Capacitaci6n        institucional de la    sistema de       las resoluciones
Judicial.           Academia de la      capacitaci6n continua judiciales.
Magistratura.       para magistrados a
nivel nacional.
Capacitaci6n de
Magistrados en areas
criticas de la funci6n
jurisdiccional y a
nivel nacional.
Administracion del  Racionalizacion del  Reforzamiento de la  Desarrollar un
Sistema.            personal del Poder   Gerencia General y   sistema nacional de
Judicial.           de las oficinas     administraci6n del
administrativas de las Poder Judicial que
Modemizar la        diversas Cortes del   sea eficiente
organizaci6n        pais.
administrativa del
___________________   Poder Judicial.
Gesti6n a nivel de   Organizar el       Consolidar a nivel   Elevar los niveles de
juzgado.            Despacho Judicial    nacional un nuevo    productividad
bajo el nuevo       modelo de           judicial a standares
modelo Corporativo. organizaci6n del    internacionales.
Despacho Judicial.
Informatizar los
distritos judiciales.
Recursos            Racionalizaci6n del  Generar nuevos     Lograr que el Poder
presupuesto del     recursos para lograr  Judicial cuente con
Poder Judicial.     el equilibrio       los recursos
financiero de las   necesarios a fin de
Mejorar el sistema de diversas instituciones mejorar la calidad de
tasasjudiciales.    de la Administraci6n  la prestaci6n del
de Justicia.        servicio de justicia y
disponer de
incentivos
econ6micos para los
magistrados.



49
Acceso a la Justicia. Fortalecer y extender Alcanzar niveles  Contar con una
si es necesario a nivel aceptables de     Administraci6n de
nacional el numero   rendimiento y acceso  Justicia accesible a
de dependencias      de las dependencias  los sectores sociales
jurisdiccionales y   nacionales de la     mayoritarios.
administrativas de la  Administraci6n de
Administraci6n de    Justicia.
Justicia.
ra Judicial    Ofrecer signos         Desarrollar un       Contar con
visibles de mejora    sistema de carrera    Magistrados s6lidos
del Poder Judicial    judicial para buenos  en hacer respetar su
con la finalidad de    profesionales del  funci6n y el estado
atraer a buenos      derecho              de derecho.
abogados a la
judicatura.
Metodos             Favorecer el          Difundir el uso de los Elevar la cultura de
Alternativos        desarrollo de la      mecanismos           la conciliaci6n en la
conciliaci6n en el    alternativos de     sociedad peruana.
ambito de los        soluci6n de
procesos judiciales.   conflictos.
Sistemas de         Modernizar y          Mejorar la estadistica Avanzaren la
Informaci6n.        racionalizar los     judicial.            interconexi6n de la
sistemas de                               informaci6n judicial.
administraci6n de la  Contar con
informaci6n judicial.  indicadores de
productividad y
calidad de la
Administraci6n de
Justicia.
Infraestructura     Remodelar los         Saneamiento legal de Contar con locales
locales judiciales en  las propiedades del  judiciales modemos
los que viene        Poder Judicial.      que brinden
operando el Poder                         condiciones de
Judicial.                                 seguridad y una
atenci6n integral al
usuario.
Etica Judicial      Fortalecimiento de    Desarrollar campanas Reducir el nivel de la
las funciones de     publicas para la     corrupci6n judicial
control del Poder    revalorizaci6n del
Judicial y del       servicio de justicia.
Consejo Nacional de
__________________   la Magistratura .



50
Anexo 2
PROYECTO "REFORMA JUDICIAL"
Componentes
Componente I Administracion de Justicia
Subcomponente 1: Mejoramiento del Aparato Administrativo del Poder Judicial.
*. Des ntralizaci6n Administrativa: (i) capacitacion para el personal administrativo en areas
smo: planeamiento  y  administraci6n, procedimientos operativos, estadistica  e
, inforatica. computaci6n. etc.; (ii) estudio para revisar y perfeccionar el sistema de
administraci6n descentralizado y desarrollo de manuales operativos; (iii) sistema de
informaci6n gerencial para las Oficinas Generales de Administraci6n en areas de recursos
humanos. finanzas y adquisiciones: y (iv) talleres para el personal administrativo de las
Oficinas Generales de Administracion y cortes para discutir los cuellos de botella y planes
de mejoramiento para la modernizacion administrativa.
*. Administraci6nfinanciera: (i) estudios sobre formas altemativas de reforzar la autonomia
econ6mica del Poder Judicial, incluyendo nuevas forrnas de generaci6n de recursos, costos
de los servicios judiciales y mejorando los sistemas de tasas judiciales; (ii) elaboracion y
ejecucion del programa presupuestario: y (iii) disefno e implementaci6n de un esquema de
tasa preferencial para grupos de bajos ingresos.
/. Imagen Institucional del Poder Judicial: (i) difusi6n de las reformas del Poder Judicial a
traves de campafias putblicas; y (ii) estudios de evaluacion sobre las reformas
administrativas llevadas a cabo.
Subcomponente 2: Mejoramiento del desempefno de las cortes piloto.
S.Remodelaci6n de la infiaestructzra: El proyecto financiaria la remodelacion de las
instalaciones fisicas en los distritos seleccionados (edificios centrales) asi la inversion en
infraestructura podria ir de la mano con los esfuerzos de modernizaci6n administrativa y
judicial. El Poder Judicial ya ha desarrollado un concepto de Despacho modelo (o nueva
organizaci6n del despacho), que toma en cuenta un proceso mejorado, tecnologia modema
y consideraciones de seguridad.
*. Juzgados civiles y laborales: (i) plenarios nacionales y regionales con jueces civiles y
laborales; (ii) difusion del trabajo de los jueces e investigadores a traves de la publicaci6n
de revistas e informes anuales, concursos de investigaci6n y conducci6n de study tours; y
(iii) la ampliaci6n de las bibliotecas de las cortes en los distritos seleccionados.
U. Procedimiento y organizacidn de la corte: (i) la ejecucion piloto de una nueva y
simplificada organizaci6n de la corte, procedimientos de procesamiento de casos
estandarizados,. Este ejercicio incluiria capacitaci6n de jueces y personal auxiliar de las
cortes en administraci6n de casos y habilidades inforrnaticas, campanias publicas,
evaluaci6n, asi como la automatizaci6n y remodelaci6n de la infraestructura de las cortes;
(ii) talleres regionales para jueces a fin de evaluar el impacto y resultados de la aplicaci6n
del nuevo c6digo procesal civil, profundizando el entendimiento de los procedimientos de
las cortes y haciendo recomendaciones para futuras mejoras; y (iii) estudios de reducci6n
e demoras (actualizaciones de base y anuales) en las instancias judiciales excepto los
penales y difundiendo los resultados en talleres con jueces.



51
*. Sistema de Informaci6n Judicial y estadisticas: (i) diseflo del sistema automatizado de
administraci6n del flujo de casos, ejecuci6n piloto de un sistema de informaci6n judicial
integrado en Lambayeque y su evaluaci6n, y la consiguiente extensi6n del sistema a los
otros distritos seleccionados como siguiente etapa; (ii) estudio de diagn6stico del sistema
de estadistica judicial existente (incluyendo la identificaci6n de indicadores estadisticos
claves) e implementaci6n de planes de mejora; (iii) desarrollo de la base de datos multiple
(legislaci6n y casos); (iv) disefno y ejecuci6n de un moderno sistema de archivo en los
distritos seleccionados; y (v) la automatizaci6n de las cortes a traves de la compra de
equipo basico - PC's, impresoras, software basico, y otro equipo para los distritos
seleccionados.
C    onente 2: Selecci6n, Evaluaci6n y Capacitaci6n Judicial
Subcomponente 1: Selecci6n v Evaluaci6n Judicial:
Apoyari al CNM  a traves del: (i) desarrollo, actualizaci6n y perfeccionamiento de sus
regulaciones, procedimientos y sistemas para la selecci6n, remoci6n y ratificaci6n de jueces y
reforzamiento de su estructura organizativa. (ii) reforzamiento de su planeamiento estrategico
y capacidad de administraci6n a traves de la ejecuci6n de estudios de diagn6stico, desarrollo
de visiones organizativas y planes de acci6n, y asesoramiento de expertos; (iii) provisi6n del
CNM con capacitaci6n en selecci6n y evaluaci6n judicial, administraci6n y habilidades
informaticas; (iv) conducci6n de estudios sobre perfil del juez, perfil del personal del CNM, y
estandares eticos en el Poder Judicial; y (v) provisi6n de apoyo informatico y logistico.
incluyendo el desarrollo de base de datos en apoyo al sistema de selecci6n, remoci6n y
ratificaci6n.
Subcomponente 2: Capacitaci6n Judicial.
Asistira a la AM en: (i) el diseflo y ejecuci6n de programas de capacitaci6n anuales para
jueces designados por el CNM (evaluaci6n de necesidades, curriculum y diseflo de m6dulos.
materiales de capacitaci6n. honorarios. capacitaci6n de capacitadores, capacitaci6n a
distancia, y apoyo logistico); (ii) estudios de evaluaci6n de impacto y resultados de los
programas de capacitaci6n: y (iii) reforzamiento institucional de la AM.
Subcomponente 3: Sistema Disciplinario.
Reforzamiento del sistema disciplinario de los Magistrados, unidad de control interno del
Poder Judicial, a traves de: (i) la conducci6n de un estudio de diagn6stico de su organizaci6n
y el apoyo a la ejecuci6n de las recomendaciones del estudio; (ii) el perfeccionamiento del
sistema legal hacia un sistema de monitoreo y control; (iii) capacitaci6n del personal de la
OCMA incluyendo evaluaci6n de necesidades, talleres y seminarios anuales de capacitaci6n;
(iv) difusi6n de las actividades de la OCMA; y (v) apoyo informatico para las comisiones
disciplinarias descentralizadas.
Componente 3: Acceso a la Justicia
Subcomponente 1: Apoyo al Sistema de Justicia de Paz.
Disen~o y ejecuci6n de progranias de capacitaci6n: (i) m6dulos de capacitaci6n para
capacitaci6n de capacitadores y criterios de selecci6n, provisi6n de capacitaci6n para



52
capacitadores en tecnicas de educaci6n para adultos y mediaci6n y conciliaci6n, (ii)
materiales de capacitaci6n, (iii) programas de capacitaci6n para conciliaci6n en distritos
seleccionados; y (iv) evaluaci6n de programas de capacitaci6n con la participaci6n de
capacitadores, profesionales, universitarios, ONGs y la AM, etc.
M. Evaluaci6n del desempeno de los Jueces de Paz: (i) estudios iniciales de base y
se ,gumiento (antes y despues de la ejecuci6n de la capacitaci6n) en los distritos
leccionados, cubriendo tipos de casos, tiempos de demora, forma de resoluci6n de
conflictos, etc. y la difusi6n de los resultados de los estudios a traves de talleres; y (ii)
encuestas a clientes - similarmente antes y despues de la ejecuci6n de la capacitaci6n.
E. Andlisis de la legislacion 'v regulaci6n sobre Jueces de Paz: (i) la revisi6n de la legislaci6n
existente y normas sobre Jueces de Paz estableciendo grupos de trabajo y haciendo
propuestas para mejoramientos; y (ii) la difusi6n publica de las propuestas a traves de
talleres para forjar consenso sobre los cambios legales y regulatorios.
Subcomponente 2: Fondo de Acceso.
Mejorar el acceso a la justicia a traves de la creaci6n de un fondo para financiar subproyectos
elegibles que aspiren a: (i) la promoci6n de MARC's y (ii) el refuerzo de la capacidad de la
sociedad civil por el analisis, demanda y monitoreo de la reforma y desempeno judicial. A fin
de promover la participaci6n de la sociedad civil en el proceso de reforma, las propuestas
serian preparadas por ONGs, asociaciones de abogados, escuelas de leyes y otros grupos
privados y academicos. Los subproyectos ganadores serian evaluados hasta su terminaci6n
/1t         para evaluar su replicabilidad. EstA previsto que el Fondo de Acceso tendria una cobertura
nacional para asegurar que un gran numero de organizaciones y grupos tengan la oportunidad
de participar en el proceso de reforma.
Subcomponente 3: Apoyo a la Oficina del Defensor del Pueblo.
Apoyara el desarrollo institucional inicial de la DP en las areas de: (i) su estructura y
funciones organizativas, normas y procedimientos. (ii) comunidades nativas, protecci6n del
medio ambiente, y derechos ciudadanos en una economia de mercado. asi como la
organizaci6n de plenos para promover la coordinaci6n entre el estado y la sociedad civil; (iii)
campafilas publicas y difusi6n de las actividades de la defensoria, incluyendo la preparaci6n v
distribucion de materiales en idioma nativo y talleres regionales; y (iv) otro apoyo logistico e
Xnformatico para promover la descentralizaci6n de las oficinas de la DP.



KEY MONITORING INDICATORS (*)
L Institutional Framework for Judicial Reform
, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......   ,''"'"           '''"."'"    '''' ''"t''''                                                                   "'........     ...  ...............,,,
Strengthen the institutional   * Retain consultants to assist in   * Establish an operational  * Improve coordination among   Start:
framework for planning and    planning, administration, and    coordination mechanism to  organs involved in judicial  * March 1996 (PHRD):
implementation of judicial    coordination ofjudicial       administer and monitor the   reform.                       PPU estsablished and
reform.                       reform.                       project and coordinate with    * Generate consensus on reforn    became operational.
* Planning & evaluation        the Bank and other organs    strategy, disseminate the    * June 1996 (PHRD):
workshops for judicial reform    involved. (Project        strategy and lessons gained   Judicial Reform
to be supported under the     Preparation Unit initiated  from project implementation.    workshop.
project.                      activities in March 1996; the  * Efficient administration and    * Judicial Coordination
* Logistic support.            coordination mechanism       timely execution of project   Council created (June
under the project must be   activities.                    1996) by law#26623
confirmed thr. OM.)        * Periodic monitoring of        aimed at inter-sectoral    w
* Implementation Plan,        progress of project activities.    policy coordination.
Operational Manual (by                                   * Final IP as condition for
PPU).                                                      negotiations.
* Semi-annual and annual                                   * Draft OM as condition
progress reports (by PCU).                                for negotiations.
* Launch, mid-tern review,                                * Signing of statement of
and completion evaluation                                 policy & objectives of
workshops (by PCU).                                       the reform by all
. Annual rinancial audits.                                  implementing agencies
as conditions for Board.
Finish: December, 2001
(*) Those highlighted are key monitoring indicators.



II. Administration of Justice Component
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......             ...... .....               ....   --. ... ..   -.' -
Establish efficient, modern,                                                                                          Start:
and self-sustainable system  * Workshops & training of     * Annual diagnosis & skill   * Improve mgt. efficiency of  * General Managers &
for judicial administration.  administrative personnel (25  upgrading workshops.         general administration        adm. staff at all districts
1) Administrative             districts nationwide).       * Functioning integrated mgt.    offices.                   selected thr. competitive
modernization &              * Consultants for refining the  information system (budget,                               examinations and
decentralization.             administrative system.        accounting, personnel etc.).                               appointed (April-May
* Informatic to support general  * Develop operational manuals                            1996).
and court administration.     for the administrative                                   . Program-based budget
system.                                                   prepared (from 1997
2) Financial management      * Consultants for design &    * Develop program-based      * More effective use of budget  budget).
implementation of mgt.        budget.                     resources and increased      * Integrated mgt.
information system.         . Adopt improved fee           income from fee collection.  information system to be    n
* Consultants for budget       structure.                  * Increase economic autonomy   installed (by March        i
planning & execution.                                      /independence of PJ.          1998).
* Consultants for alternative                              * Improved access to judicial    * Operational manuals
ways for strengthening                                     service for low-income        for the administrative
economic autonomy of the PJ                                groups.                       system to be developed
(e.g., new forms of resource                                                             (by June 1998).
generation, costs of judicial                                                          * Opinion survey to be
services, and revision of                                                                conducted and results
judicial fee systems).                                                                   to be disseminated (by
* Consultants for design &                                                                December each year)
implementation of a
preferential fee scheme for
lower-income groups.
3) Institutional image of the  * Public campaign of judicial    * Dissemination through TV    * Increased public recognition
Judiciary                     reform.                       and radio spots.             of activities of the Judiciary.
* Consultants for design &    * Annual opinion surveys     * Obtain feedback of reform   Finish:
implementation of clientVuser    (litigants, lawyers, judges  process from client & users of  December 2001
surveys.                      etc.)                       the system.



Improve efficiency, equity,                                                                                           Start:
and predictability of judicial  * National & regional (*)  * Annual national & regional   * Improve uniformity and    * Workshops organized
performance.                  workshops with judges to      workshops with judges.       rationality of judicial       for Lima judges on civil
1) Civil and labor judgements    diagnose the uniformity of  * Design & implement        decisions.                    procedures (July 1996)
-- (*) in selected districts.  judgements & discuss        innovative incentive schemes  . Diffusion of judgement      & labor judgement (Oct.
improvement plans.           for judges.                  criteria.                      1996) -- PHRD grant.
* Consultants for studies of  * Publication of journals &  * Increase sustainability of  * Implementation Manual
incentives schemes for better    annual reports.          reform based on better         of new court
judicial performance.       * Improve district-level       incentives and participation of   organization at
* Publication of work by judges   library.                 judges.                        respective districts
& academics; annual reports;                                                            prepared (Sept.-Oct.
research competition.                                                                    1996).
* Study tours & fellowships.                                                             * Implementation of new
* Consultants for library needs                                                           court organization
assessment; literature                                                                   started in Lambayeque
purchase.                                                                                (Nov. 1996).
2) Court organization &      * Training of judges & court    * Implement new court     * Improve speed and efficiency   * The first phase result 
procedures                    personnel in modem court      organization ("sistema       in case management (through.   of the Lambayeque
-- (*) in selected districts  administration & informatic  corporativo").               statistical indicators as     pilot to be evaluated
skills etc. (*).            * Evaluate application of new  measured by congestion ratio    (by March 1998).
* Logistic & consultant support   civil procedure code.     & congetion index).          a Implementation of new
to dissemination, supervision,  * Baseline study & annual                                court organization in
evaluation, and subsequent   updates of key judicial                                    the other selected
technical follow-up of new   performance indicators.                                     districts to be
court organization (*).                                                                 completed (by Dec.
* Regional workshops with                                                                 1999) - including
judges for application of new                                                            training, judicial
civil procedure code (*).                                                               information, &
* Consultants for quantitative &                                                          infrastructure
qualitative indicators (*).                                                             remodeling.
* Workshops & surveys with
civil society to evaluate the
progress in procedures &
organization.(*).



3) Judicial information &
statistics system            * Consultants for design &    * Develop automated system   * Improve allocation of       * Design of a model court
- (*) in selected districts:  implementation of judicial    for improved case           resources to courts, efficiency    house completed (May
Lima (inc. Cono Norte,      information system (i.e.,     distribution among judges    of case administration, and   1996).
Callao), Arequipa, Cusco,   caseflow management).         and case tracking.           access to information.      * Remodeling is to be
Piura, Lambayeque.         * Consultants for diagnosis &  * Develop automated system  * Technologically modern       implemented in parallel
improvements for statistic   for statistical reporting.   administration and court      to new court
system.                       Annual statistical reports.  room.                        organization
* Consultants for design &    * Develop modem archieve                                    implementation (see the
implementation of a modem     system.                                                    timing above).
archieve system             * Data base completed.
* Consultants for design &
implementation of multiple                                                             Finish:
data base.                                                                             December 2001
4) Infrastructure remodeling    * Informatic support.(*)
* Remodel courthouses in      * Detailed architetural studies.  * Improve public access to
Callo, Cono Norte, Arequipa,  * Remodeling completed.     courts, judicial security, and
Cuzco, Lambayeque, and                                     minimize inappropriate                                   a'
Piura (central buildings only)                             contact by judges with
to accomodate new court                                   litigants.
organization..



IIL Judicial Selection, Evaluation and Training
~~~~~~~~...:-.-:-. . :. ,, :.::::. ....  :.-.:.:.
OBJECTIVES ...*              NU..                          OTP SOTCmEIPA                                STI.N
Strengthen judicial selection   * Consultants for diagnosis &  * Develop/improve norms and   * Increase competence,   Start:
and evaluation system         managerial strengthening for    process ofjudicial selection,    legimacy, honesty,     * Evaluation of norms &
(Consejo Nacional de la       CNM (i.e., judicial selection,    ratification & removal.  transparency, and             processes of selection,
Magistratura)                 ratification & removal).     . Biannual updating of        responsibility of selection,  ratification & removal
* Consultants for strategic    strategic plans.             ratification, & removal       of judges to be
planning.                   . Internal training & study   processes (merit-based         completed, and
* Training of CNM members &    tours of CNM staff.          systems).                     improved structure of
staff in selection/ratification,   . Implement various studies.    * Improve administrative  CNM designed (by Dec.
management, & informatic    * Installation of data base.  efficiency of CNM.             1998).
skills.                                                  * Strengthen judicial         * Data base on selection,
* Consultants for studies on                                independence.                 ratification & removal
corruption, judges' profile,                                                             of judges to be installed
and CNM staff profile etc.                                                              (by Dec. 1999).             s
* Consultants for design and
implementation of data base
to support judicial selection,                                                         Finish:
ratification & removal.                                                                December 2001
* Informatic and equipment
support; literature purchase
etc.



Strengthen judicial training    * Training of judges on civil,    * 10 training course in 1st  * Improve quality of judicial  Start:
(Academia de la                commercial, labor matters, &   year, increasing to 20 per    decision and judges' skills in   * Training needs
Magistratura)                  conciliation etc. in selected  year (on average) from 2nd    free market economy.          assessment on Lima
-(*) in selected districts.   districts (*).                 year onward.                 * Improve investigation         civil judges conducted
* Consultants for training needs  * Develop training module per    capacity of AM.          in May 1996 (PHRD
assessment (*).               speciality.                                                  grant).
. Consultants for impact      * Update training needs                                      * Preparation of detailed
evaluation of training        assessment.                                                  first-year training plan
program (*).                 * Conduct biannual impact                                     as condition for
* Consultants for designing     evaluation studies.                                         negotiations.
training programs for        * Develop curriculum of                                     * First series of training
aspiring judges.              training programs for                                        courses on civil, labor
* Training & study tours for    aspiring judges.                                            & conciliation to be
AM staff.                    * Publication of research                                     conducted for Lima
* Support to publications.      activities.                                                 judges (by June 1998).
* Impact evaluation           L
studies to be completed     X
by Dec. 199 & 2001).
Finish:
December 2001



Strengthen a disciplinary       * Consultants for diagnosis of    * Evaluate decentralization    * Improve judicial ethics &      Start:
system of judges (Oficina de     organization of OCMA and          experience of OCMA.            discipline.                     July 1997
Control de los Magistrados/      implementation of the study's   * Skill upgrading of OCMA
the Judiciary).                  recommendations.                  staff.                                                         * First diagnostic study
* Workshops on corruption.       * Improve legal framework for                                     on OCMA
* Consultants for training needs    system for monitoring &                                        organization to be
assessment! training of          control of judicial                                              completed (by June
OCMA staff.                      peformance.                                                      1998).
* Study tours                    * Annual reports of OCMA
* Informatic support.             activities.
. Consultants for legistlative                                                                    Finish:
proposal for monitoring &                                                                       December 2001
control mechanism.
* Dissemination
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _Lf



IV. Access to Justice Component
OBJE.C YES                NUtS                         OOPT                    UCmE/IPCSTMN
,,l ..........~........... .. ,.l-. ,l..S.,,,,,,-- ........ .-,,X:      . .TSX,,.,,. .   .-:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-..,,...  .,: - A-                                                                     -...... ........
Improve the quality of        * Initial workshop for diagnosis  * Develop curriculum and   * Improve competence of JP      Start:
judicial services of Jueces de    and training needs of Jueces  training module for trainers,    and community authorities,    . Access to Justice
Paz (lay judges) and           de Paz.                         JP and community             including conciliation          workshop organized in
community authorities.        * Consultants for preparation of   authorities.                techniques.                    June 1996 (PHRD
() in selected districts.   training materials (trainers  * 50 trainers selected and     . Improve access to justice.    grant).
and JP), selection criteria and    trained.                * Establish legal framework for  * Basic Justice workshop
methodology for trainers.    * Training workshops per       jurisdiction of JP and rural    organized with IDB in
. Training of trainers          selected districts            and native communities.         Nov. 1996.
* Training of JP & community    implemented.                                                * Initial workshop to be
authorities. (*)             * Feedback and evaluation of                                   conducted (by Dec.
* Consultants for evaluation of    training program.                                          1998).
training program. (*)        * Analysis of user survey                                     * First training of JP to
* Consultants for baseline and  results.                                                      be conducted (by Dec.       o
follow-up surveys on         * Publication of legal norms                                   1999).
performance of JP and user     on jurisdiction of JP.                                      * Evaluation workshop
surveys (before and after                                                                   on the above training
training). (*)                                                                              to be conducted (by
. Workshops for dissemination                                                                 Dec. 2000).
of survey results.                                                                         . Second training of JP to
. Consultants for preparation of                                                              be conducted (by Dec.
legistlaion on JP.                                                                          2001).
* Workshops to discuss                                                                      * Evaluation workshop on
proposed legislative                                                                        the above training to be
modifications.                                                                              conducted (by Dec.
2001).
Finish:
December 2001



Increase access to alternative  * Consultants for elaboration of  * Operational manuals for  * Faciliate access to ADR  * Draft operational
means of dispute resolution   contract forms.               Access Fund, allocation of   outside formal system.        manual as condition for
and civil society            * Public campaign of Special   resources for each program,   * Promote civil society      negotiations.
participation in judicial     Fund.                         TOR for Fund and technical    participation in judicial   * Adoption of final
reform.                      * Establish technical          committee.                   reform process.               operational manual, and
1) Creation of a demand-      conunittee.                 * Evaluate & approve demand-                                 appointment of
driven Access Fund.          * Implement Accessl Fund in    driven projects.                                           technical committee as
the areas of:                                                                            condition for
(i) ADR; (ii) innovative                                                                effectiveness.
research & monitoring of                                                               * Access Fund to become
reform process.                                                                         fully operational (by
Jan. 1998).
Fund operation : July
1998 - 2001
Strengthen the newly created  * Consultants on institutional    . Improve technical capacity    * Develop modem & efficient    Start: July 1997
Public Defender's Office      development (DP's             of DP & operational          DP's administrative structure
(ombudsman).                  competency, procedures etc.)    decentralization.          and functions.               * First biannual strategic
* Annual strategic planning  * Action plans to improve    * Establish collaborative       planning workshop to be     a'
workshops.                   DP's functions and           relationship with civil society    organized (by
* Workshops: native            procedures.                  & public institutions.        Dec.1997).
communities, environmental   * Diagnosis of protection of    * Increased public recognition    * First series of topical
issues, market economy.      environment, citizen rights  of DP activities.             workshops to be
* Public campaign (production    for native communities                                   organized (by June
of materials in Spanish,     (selva and sierra), consumer                                1998).
native languages, regional   rights in market economy.                                 * Public campaign to be
workshops)                  * Materials translated in                                   carried out (by June
* Consultants for evaluation &  Spanish and native                                        1998).
opinion surveys.             languates. Materials                                      * Information system to
. DP staff training (including  distributed.                                              be installed at selected
study tours).               * Information system installed                              districts (by June
Informatic support: PCs,       at central and selected                                    1998).
software, printers etc.        districts.                                               * Opinion surveys on
evaluation of DP
services be conducted
(by Dec. 1998 & 2000).
Finish: December 2001



62
Annex 3
Judicial Performance Indicators
The project is expected to produce more efficient and effective results and improve the quality of services,
particularly in the first instance courts. As described in paras. 3.14-3.15 of the main text, the judicial
perfornance will be monitored through performance indicators to assess progress in judicial productivity and
decongestion quality ofjudicial decisions, improvements in overall administration of the system,
improvements in restoring judicial tenure and increased access to justice.
Performance Indicatoars bv Component
Component I: Judicial Administration
I-(1) Administrative Modernization
(a)    Ratios of self-generating income relative to the budget assigned by the Treasury as measured
annually.
(b)    Quantity and quality of support (legal, administrative, and technical) to the courts by the
General Administrative Office and District Administrative Office, as measured by: (i) judge's
opinions as reflected in annual anonymous surveys; and (ii) delay reduction of key
administrative services.
I-(2) Pilot Performance Improvement Program in the Selected Districts
(a)    Evaluation of court performance indicators for courts in the selected districts: (i) before and
after the introduction of automated case tracking systems and (ii) changes onward, as
measured in annual surveys in accordance with a methodology satisfactory to the Bank (see
below for "supplementary note on court performance indicators").
(b)    Percentage ofjudges by target group in the selected districts having attended a regional or
national meeting of peers within the past twelve months.
(c)    Average quality of judicial performance as determined by selected survey groups on the basis
of (i) legal knowledge; (ii) analytic technique; (iii) judicial writing; and (iv) other criteria as
determined by the Bank and the Judiciary (for mid-term and final reviews).
Component II Judicial Selection. Evaluation and Training
(a)    Success of AM training courses in effectively delivering knowledge and improving skdlls and
aptitudes as nmeasured by the evaluation methodology to be developed under the Project (for
mid-tern and final reviews).



63
(b)   Improvement in ratio of tenured magistrates to provisional magistrates.
Component HI: Access to Justice
(a)    Quality of support to the general public and users by the DP's office, as measured by biamual
opinion surveys.
(b)    Success of training courses for Jueces de Paz in conciliation techniques, as measured by the
evaluation methodology to be developed under the project (for mid-term and final reviews).



64
<Supplementary Notes on Court Performance Indicators>
Indicators for Congestion
(1) Congestion ratio (TC) is defined as the number of cases disposed (T) as a proportion of the number of
cases filed (I) during a certain period of time. In the project, the disposition per year of the courts in the
selected districts will be calculated as a percentage of the number of filing per year. This ratio will allow
monitoring of whether judges are able to handle the volume of work or backlogs are developing.
TC=T/I
Experience suggests that if the congestion ratio is 1 or above, the volume of cases disposed in a particular
courtroom is either equal or even exceed the number of filings. If the congestion ratio is less than 1, the
caseload is higher than the capacity of a courtroom (or judges) for handling the volume of work. As Table
shows, the volume of case disposed of as a proportion of filed cases is lower than one in most of the districts
in Peru.
(2) Congestion index (IC) is defined as the number of pending cases at the end of a particular year (CT-T) as
a proportion of the number of cases brought to a courtroom in this year plus unresolved cases (or "stock")
from the previous year (CT).
IC = (CT-T) / CT
The congestion index below 20% implies that a particular courtroom is roughly capable of satisfying the
caseload imposed by the system. On the other hand, if the congestion index is above 20%, it suggests that
the cumulative caseload is too heavy for a courtroom to handle the work.
(3) Productivity index: Productivity can be measured as the volume of different types of cases disposed per
courtroom (or one judge) or per sala (3 superior judges) in a certain period of time. Although this is an
indicator for production (not productivity) in a strict sense, it roughly explains the volume of production per
unit ofjudges. Therefore, by comparing the volume of cases in a year to that in the previous year, it is
possible to measure annual productivity increase of a particular courtroom.
In order to calculate the above indicators, the Statistics Office of the Judiciary will annually prepare the
following formats for civil and labor courts as well as juzgados de paz letrados in the selected districts: Lima
(including Callao and Cono Norte), Arequipa, Cuzco, Piura, and Lambayeque. Similar information will be
prepared for superior courts in the selected districts and the Supreme Court.
(4) Efficiency index:
(a)   Number of sentences and judgments (sentencias) and interlocutory appeal decisions (autos
interlocutorios) divided by the number of court employees.
(b)   Number of final sentences and judgments divided by the number of court employees.



65
(5) Processing time for civil and special cases:
(a)     For cases which have not concluded, average time between case filing (ingreso del
expediente) and the final judgment divided by the maximum time established by law.
(b)     For cases which have not concluded, average time between case filing and the current date (at
which the case is reviewed by the investigator), divided by the maximum time established by
law for case filing to judgment.
Example: Annual Statistics of Congestion
Juzgados: Civil
Period:
..             :.-              -' . - ' . ' . ' -'-.   d ':. .-.               .     .......... .. .,, . ...   .
Pe*  --:-:--E: ::-:--MO -
ler. J. Civil
ler. J. Civil
2o. J. Civil
Court: Superior Court of Liaa
Period:__ ___
'''"''"""'"''"'"'... .....      ............ ,. 
ler__J Civil                                                          _ __
Salailra.       _    _                                    _    _        _    _
Sala2a. J.
Sala  3a.    _   _  _  ___                                  _  _  _  _   _   _  _
T...............
Total



66
Table Caseload and Indicators for Congestion at Selected Districts (1995)
~~~~~~~~.   . . . . . . . .   . ......................     ........ . .. . .. . ..   .......... ... ..... ..  . ...........  .. . .   ... .  .. .
Stcck   ~.. Ingresada    eula    tek       Idc  e Tsd
...... ...~~~~~~~~.........., ., . .... ...   ...................   ... .......... , ,  ..........
.........              )e    y               ...._    =          =)  .   --  . _    ..g ..  
Arequipa      2o Inst        3,808      10,140      7,221       7,866      48.2%         0.71
ler Inst      8,262      19,517      21,547      9,852      22.40/        1.10
JPL           6,072      13,081       9,643      7,443      49.7/o        0.74
CaUao         2o Inst        3,173       6,707      7,387         804      25.20/        1.10
ler Inst     10,822      12,171      14,144      7,533      38.5%         1.16
JPL            5,711     13,158       8,291      11,573     56.1%         0.63
Cono Norte   2o Inst         1,007       2,351      1,146       1,277      65.90/        0.49
ler Inst     11,293      12,685       7,776     10,321      67.6%         0.61
JPL           6,166      22,744      11,706     21,628      59.5%         0.51
Cuzco         2o Inst        7,298       5,911      6,971       (433)     47.20/         1.18
ler InsLt    13,438      13,931      12,357     12,639      54.90/o       0.89
JPL            6,145     15,718      11,048       6,074     49.5%         0.70
Lambayeque  2o Inst          3,046       9,772      8,287      12,831      35.3%         0.85
ler Inst     11,804      17,292      16,682     90,751      42.7%         0.96
JPL            2,003     17,001      12,230      38,282     35.6%         0.72
Lima          2o hist       14,417     34,082      33,093      12,831      31.8%         0.97
ler Inst    267,152    115,282    100,969       90,751      73.6%         0.88
JPL          43,800      91,381      67,391      38,282     50.1/         0.74
Piura         2o Inst          786       9,307      6,668       4,669      33.9%         0.72
ler Inst.     6,860      20,010      17,030      9,923      36.6%         0.85
JPL            1,936     12,847       9,272       4,589     37.3%         0.72
AI1i5tz-t 2ons              55,57J     1219       1111         5623       38             0.86
E~~~~~~~~~~~~3.V7::: i12                        O'      fi;2... .....
JPL   101,415    3~~03,798    200958     158,970       04/06
....--                                                           - .-, , ,,,_ ...Y.- ..  _._.=
Source: the Judiciary, Office of Statistics, and INVERTEC 'Evaluacion Economica de la Reforna Judicial en la Republica de
Peru" July 1996.



67
Annex 4
Oreanization of the Judiciary
1. In accordance with the Constitution and its Organic Law, the Peruvian Judiciary is organized with the
following judicial institutions: the Supreme Court, Superior Courts or Courts of Appeal, Trial Courts, and
Justices of the Peace. Within the court system, there has been an increasing effort to decentralize the courts
and to separate administrative from judicial matters. The court system is distributed loosely according to the
defined political jurisdictions of the country. There are 24 departments (political jurisdictions) and 24 judicial
districts, roughly correspondent, and two additional districts in preparation (Cono Sur and Chosica). The
Supreme Court serves the whole nation, while there is a Superior Court in each judicial district. Under the
Superior Courts there are several first instance courts and a very small number of "lettered" Justices of the
Peace. As of April 1996, there are 1,253 magistrates throughout the country.
2. Much of the ordinary justice in Peru occurs at the level of Justices of the Peace (JPs), who have
jurisdictional responsibility of first instance for some criminal and civil matters. JPs do not specialize
according to case matter, but are divided into two orders: those who have obtained a legal education
("lettered", or Juecez de Paz Letrados) and those whose reputation in the community in which they live have
won them the responsibility to adjudicate in matters relevant to the daily lives of citizens (Juecez de Paz, or
lay judges). "Lettered" JPs have jurisdictional competence and autonomy of decision over both civil and
some crimninal, and are the equivalent to judges of first instance in areas where the reach of the ordinary court
system for the administration of justice is absent. In this sense, it is a mechanism to relieve the case load
burden of the court and to provide access to the vast majority of citizens. In contrast, the Juecez de Paz (lay
judges) are not part of the judicial career and are loosely--if at all--supported by the formal justice system.
The development and expansion of the Juecez de Paz (lay judge) system is largely the result of the continuous
import of foreign legislation by the Peruvian legal system, its lack of roots in any local development, and the
limited access to the formal legal system. There are currently around 4,300 Juecez de Paz (vs. 1,253 forrnal
judges). In this system, rooted in local traditions, the judges are elected by popular votes within their
constituencies and apply customary law.
3. Courts of First Instance (Juzgados) are organized jurisdictionally in districts that correspond to the
Superior Courts. In districts with large populations, there are specialized jurisdiction tribunals (Civil,
Criminal, Labor, Agrarian, and Children). Otherwise, there is a single mixed-jurisdiction tribunal, or a mixed
tribunal working together with specialized courts, usually in civil and criminal matters. All districts, except
Lima and Callao, which are physically proximate to each other, have at least one mixed First Instance Courts.
Overall, there are 134 Mixed Courts, and 490 specialized First Instance Courts.
4. The Superior Courts have both appellate and original jurisdiction. With the new Organic Law, Superior
Courts in most cases are the court of final appeal. There is at least one Superior Court in the capital of each
judicial district. It is the highest judicial authority in each district. Decentralized Superior Courts can be
created by the Supreme Court out of the capital of the district (as has happened in the cases of Cono Norte
Superior Court in Lima, the Tarapoto Court in San Martin, or the Chimbote Court in Ancash). Overall, there
are 24 Superior Court districts and 99 chambers. There are up to five separate specialized chambers,



68
composed of three or four magistrates each: Civil, Criminal, Labor, Family law, and Mixed jurisdictions. As
in the case of First Instance Courts, Mixed Jurisdiction Courts replace the specialized ones.
5. The Supreme Court, located in Lima, has three separate chambers of five judges each, and a total of
eighteen judges. (The remaining three judges serve in the Executive Council, the Office of the Magistracy
Control, and the Presidency of the Court.) The three specialized chambers in the Court include: Civil (Family
Law, Property, Contracts, Torts, and Commercial Controversies), Criminal, and Constitutional and Social
Law. Constitutional reforns have attempted to limit the types and numbers of cases heard by the Supreme
Court to those of cassation16 and "exceptional cases" involving matters of law and the civil responsibilities of
judges. In practice, prior to recent reforms, the Supreme Court had become simply one more instance of
appeal, and virtally all cases could find their way to this "third instance." The result has been extreme
overload at this level.
Table 9: Number of Chambers an d Courts, and Judges
... , #: f:-.E-. W--! l- ,>.,. ........ - y-- iES;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
0---S--2n    1iirt                                      I      Tt   Tit: .
--,. E.i .-. .- i -. --:figi:iEi- .. ..-.- ,-..                            i.......
'-0-00-::fff't.::"-'~~~~~~~~Is                                          f-:..... :'- -t.......- - : ;i:0i   iC1-2-f -;0j f---
Amazonaz                                               1      2       4              1              5     5       20
An cash          1       2                             1       5      9        3     5       3    18      9       64
Apurunac                                               1      2       2              2       2      5    12       28
Arequipa         3       3       1                            8      11        4     6       3      5    10       68
Ayacucho                                               2      4       6              1       2      5     7       31
Cajarnarca                                             2      2       5        1     2       2     8      9       35
Callao           1       2       1                            4       7        4             2      1     8       38
Canete                                                 1       1      2              1              1     6       14
Cono Norte                                             1      4       4                      1     2    15        29
Cuzco            2       3                                    7      10        2     5       4    10    24        77
Huancavel.                                             1       1      2              1       1     2      4       14
Huanuco          1       2                                    4       8        1     2       2     7    14        47
Huara            1       1                                    4       4        1     3       1     2      9       30
Ica              1       2                                    6       8        2     5       4     7    16        58
Junin            1      4        1        .5                          7        2     5       2     8    19        67
Libatad          2       3       1                            7      10        2     4       2     6    13        63
Lambayeque       2       4                             1      9      14        2     2       2     6    16        73
Lima             5      13       4       1      1            34      50 -18          2   10              69      255
Loreto           1       3                             1      2       3        1             1     5      8       35
Piura            3       2                             1      9      12        5     2       2     3    16        67
Puno                                                   3      3       6        1     3       4    11    18        55
SanMaxtin                                              1      5       5        1     1       1     6    12        34
Tacna            1       1                             1      2       4        2             1     7      7       32
Ucayali                                                1      2       2        1             1    4       6       19
TOTAL        . -...S .4....  .. .    ... .                                                     ..... -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.              . . . . . . .                                      .v.   . .   . t4 - E: - :$ --.. . .. . .1-- i : i 
Source: Esatadistica R.esolucion 002-95-TP'/PJ, PCUP
16Through a cassation thie Supreme Court can review thie Superior Court's sentences or decrees that finishl the process, to
decide whethier: (i) the case was decided following the law and previous jurisprudence; or (ii) the guarantees for a due
process of law were observect Accordingly, the Supreme Court can cassate the case by either (i) applyring te law bry itsel,
or (ii) sending the case back to the instance that failed to observe a due process requirement.



69
Table 10. Caseload Distribution by District in 1995
.E......td. ..L..
C~S0$   PtWII~9 WONa te   ss~ e Pt"Oflt'  ThPaI $*0M*"
Amazonas         743      909      407       241    3,063    2,370    1,046     1,739
Ancash          4,897    2,560    1,865    4,202   15,660   13,692    7,452     9,420
Apurimac         984      498      336       822   10,273    7,908    1,377     3,742
Arequipa       10,140    7,221    4,947    7,866   32,598   31,190   15,877    17,285
Ayacucho         879      884      771       766    5,932    4,845    1,182     2,269
Cajamarca       3,325    3,914     124      (465)   9,700    7,029    1,944     4,615
Canete           997      453      476     1,020    5,109    2,941    2,680     4,848
Callao          6,707    7,387    1,484      804   25,329   22,435   16,212    19,106
Cono Norte      2,351    1,146      72     1,277   35,429   19,482   16,002    31,949
Cuzco-M.Dios    5,911    6,971     627      (433)  29,649   23,405   12,469    18,713
Huancavelica     471      253       52       270    3,803    2,045      576     2,334
Huara           3,416    2,078     639     1,977   10,770    7,096    8,282    11,956
Huanco-Pasco    2,180    2,186    2,020    2,014   15,931   11,243    6,320    11,008
Ica             5,981    4,378    1,082    2,685   21,089   16,684    6,944    11,349
Junin           6,303    4,734    1,777    3,346   30,525   24,846   18,432    24,111
La Libertad     8,013    7,531    3,207    3,689   28,220   22,711   12,396    17,905
Lambayeque      9,722    8,287    2,573    4,008   34,293   28,912   11,342    16,723
Lima           34,082   33,093   11,842    12,831  206,663  168,360   90,730   129,033
Loreto          2,446    2,443     741       744    9,572    6,481    7,238    10,329
Piura-Tumbes    9,307    6,668    2,030    4,669   32,857   26,302   10,286    14,512
Puno            1,990    1,807    1,575    1,758   30,053   13,311    3,115    19,857
San Martin      1,811    1,513     424-      722    7,470    5,953    1,413     2930
Tacna-Moqueg    2,528    3,082    1,113      559   12,290    8,004    5,856    10,142
Ucayali         1,013    1,166    1,020      867    6,741    4,182    3,076     5,635
Source: the Judiciary, Estadistica Resolucion 002-95-TP/J, PUCP



70
Annex 5
La Academia de la MaEistratura del Peru -AM
Background
1.    The AM was established pursuant to article 151 of the Peruvian Constitution as one element of the
Judiciary. Its role is to undertake the education and training of judges and prosecutors and candidates for
judgeships and prosecutorships at all levels excluding the jueces de paz. In fact, the Constitution provides
that the approval of the respective AM courses is a prerequisite for judicial appointment.
2.    The specific mandate, goals and organizational structure of AM are regulated in Law 26335 of July
20, 1994 and in its by-laws approved through Resolution No. 0 1-94iAMAG-CD of December 26, 1994.
The AM is part of the Judiciary but is afforded autonomy in the academic, financial and administrative sense.
By law 26623 of June 18, 1996, the AM was included in the judicial reorganization process. On a transitory
basis, the Board has been suspended, and the Executive Secretary of the CE has assumed its functions.
Through Administrative Resolution No. 241-96-SE-TP-CME-PJ of June 26, 1996 the Executive Secretary
has delegated its functions in a committee ofjurists headed by the Director General of the AM. On July 11,
1996 the members of the committee were appointed.
3.    The AM's existence can be traced to specific local concerns as well as to international trends in
judicial professional development. Following 1992 it became critical to provide education and training for a
largely renewed and inexperienced judiciary. In addition, judicial sector reports in Peru indicated that the
judiciary was affected by inefficiency, incompetence and corruption. The country's aspirations for economic
and social development of course depend on the reliability of the legal system and specifically the quality of
judicial action. Both international and domestic commercial enterprises require a predictable and reliable
judicial system for the enforcement and regulation of the affairs. Around the world legal systems at all stages
of development have concluded that the continued professionalization of the judiciary is fundamental to
enhancing both social and economic values. Judging, like all other human endeavor, requires training,
education, monitoring and constant attention to improvement.
AM's Fundamental Principles
4.    The AM seeks to be a primary contributor to development and improvement of the public service of
administration of justice in Peru. It has quite properly declared itself to be committed to:
*  the sanctity of human life and individual rights
*  peace, the right to life and social justice as core societal values
*  the fundamentality of the rule of law and the institutions necessary for its maintenance
*  the independence of the judiciary
  the continuing education and training of the judiciary
*  the recognition that honor, foresight, integrity and honesty are indispensable attributes of competent
judges



71
These central principles guide all AM activities that seek to create a judiciary capable of contributing
to a just and prosperous society.
AM's Central Goals
5.    In order to adequately play its part in the ongoing development of the country through justice under
law, the AM has therefore committed itself to a long term program of research, development and educational
activities. This program aims to provide the Peruvian judiciary with the resources and environment necessary
to caffy out its societal role efficiently and effectively. The AM's research and development, and the
programs and other activities arising from them, therefore aim to:
* train and educate those seeking appointments ofjudges and prosecutors
* train and educate those considering, seeking or eligible for promotion
* enhance the quality of individual judges and prosecutors through continuing education programs
* train and educate auxiliary court personnel
AM's Role in Concert with Others
6.    The professionalization of the judiciary is in large part dependent on the conditions under which its
members operate. The AM can assist the Judiciary authorities in identifying barriers to actual on-the-job
success, but it cannot itself remedy those that may be associated with working conditions beyond the AM's
control. Similarly, the AM can play a central role in helping to establish a positive judicial culture through the
enhancement ofjudicial attitudes and ethics. Again, the physical, social and professional environment must
reinforce these values. Perhaps the best way that the AM can contribute in the long term, beyond research
and development activities aimed at education and training, is through the creation of a flexible, adaptive and
supportive resource center for judges, no mater their location.
Operating Principles
7.    The AM is committed to a system of education and training that is decentralized, based on sound
adult education principles and practices, aimed at the improvement of skills and attitudes as well as
knowledge, and quality oriented. It is also determined to base its activities on original and locally validated
action research into judicial work.
8.    To date the AM has wisely focused its efforts on major research into the training needs ofjudges, the
planning process and the delivery of an initial group of courses. Through these activities the AM has been
able to design a plan of action aimed at systematically improving judicial quality in the country.
AM activities
9.    The AM's program is jointly sponsored by several organizations in addition to the Peruvian
government. The AM component will focus on civil and labor judges only in the area ofthe Lima judicial
district and four other of the country's twenty-four judicial districts. While the rest of this annex will for the
most part be concerned with the AM component it must be underscored that this part cannot succeed unless
the overall organization and operation of the AM, and balance of its activities, mesh comfortably with it.



72
AM Component of Project Activities
10.   The AM component will be implemented over four years and half beginning in 1997 and ending in
2001. There a.re five main areas of activity planned, namely:
* Training and Education
. Research
. Publications
* Study Tours
* Expert Support (Apoyo Institucional)
Each ofthe project activities is described briefly below.
Training and Education
11.   The AM component, reflecting AM's overall program, is not intended either to replace or repeat
university legal education, which is oriented to general education and the preparation of lawyers rather that to
judicial training. Rather, the AM's training and education courses will aim to educate creative and reflective
judges capable of carrying out the unique duties of the judiciary, including legal analysis, decision-making and
dispute resolution. The AM will seek to ensure that judges make their decisions in the context of a profound
understanding of the impact on and means of the exercise of the judicial role in the support of economic and
social development.
Specific Objectives of the Training Program
12.   The AM recognizes that the conduct of the judicial role is complex and difficult. The exercise of
judgment in context requires as understanding of diverse knowledge bases and the ability to exercise the
judge's role with skill. In particular, the AM has set the following learning outcomes for its participants:
* knowledge and skill to conduct and improve their role
*  theoretical and practical education and training to enable judges to analyze and interpret the law in the
context of the specific facts of the case and arrive at a creative and reasoned decision
* preparation in disciplines connected to the law including, for example, economics, sociology,
criminology, information technology, business affairs so as to enable participants to appreciate and
take account of the economic and social demands and consequences of decision making
* training in the theory and practice of efficient and effective court and caseflow management and
communications skills to improve quality and speed of case handling, avoid delay and improve users'
perceptions of the judicial system
* preparation to influence judicial attitudes so as to promote positive reform, professional development,
and improved public relations
. education that will support the development of an independent and impartial judiciary concerned with
the achievement ofjustice, the maintenance of the constitution and the Rule of Law
* education and training that will produce moral and ethical judges prepared to join in the fight against
corruption
Methodology



73
13.   In order to achieve its training objectives the AM plans to design and develop its programs and
courses with the direct involvement of its participants to ensure that they are actively engaged in their own
learning process. Lectures and a focus on the delivery of information will be mriniized, pernitting
participants to acquire knowledge, skills, attitudes and operational strategies that will enable them to carry
out their role professionally.
14.   The following are the main criteria by which courses will be designed and developed:
participants will be provided carefully prepared written materials providing up to date summaries of
the case law, statute law and commentaries
learning and teaching will take place in small groups to permit active debate, analysis and problem
solving
* small group activities will usually be followed by plenary sessions in which group solutions will be
presented and tested in the presents of experts who will offer their views.
* expert opinions will be offered so as to promote debate, critical reflection, and a variety of feasible
solutions that may be questioned and debated by the participants
*  skills training will involve presentation of information, demonstration of adequate performance,
opportunities for participants to practice followed by constructive feedback
*  the study and fornation of professional attitudes will take place in the context of reflective and active
discussion.
Delivery System
15.   The programn will be delivered through carefully selected teacher experts who share a concern for
quality instruction and learning. There will be regular training courses to "train the trainers" and ensure
highest possible quality throughout the program's offerings. Most programs will be outsources to competent
providers approved by the AM. These contractors will be required to maintain preset standards and their
performance will be monitored throughout the period of their participation. As a result the main burden of
program delivery will be shifted to private contractors while the AM will be able to concentrate on program
management and quality control. Through this mechanism the AM will be able to deliver more courses and
produce additional publications than would be the case if it were directly responsible for all production.
Tendering and Course Requirements
16.   Courses will be prepared following a rigorous tendering process. A standard form tender document
will be provided to proposers, specifying the form of any proposal and its minimum contents. The final work
product of the successful party will include:
*  the resumes of all persons who may teach on the course (two or more instructors are planed for each
course to facilitate small group teaching)
*  the specific instructional objectives to be achieved in the course
*  the relationship between those objectives and the course objectives contained in the tender document
* the connection between the course objectives and the needs specified in the AM's needs assessment as
varied from time to time
*  the course syllabus including detailed outlines of substantive, procedural and other knowledge to be
covered
*  a statement of the skills areas to be covered



74
*  a description of the course materials to be prepared
*  an outline of the audio-visual supports and aids that will be prepared
*  a statement of equipment, other resource and facility requirements
*  any other special requirements
*  a detailed lesson plan with teacher's notes, activity descriptions and leaming points
*  a statement indicating how participant learning will be assessed
*  an undertaking to use the AM's standard course evaluation instrument
Course Offerings
17.   Courses will be offered in the capital and four other districts according to a prescribed schedule.
Examples of areas in respect of which courses will be offered include:
Caseflow and Court Management
Judicial Reasoning, Decision Making and the Writing Judgments
Total Quality
* Judicial Ethics
e Judicial Administration and Information technology
* Civil Procedure
* Commercial Law
Constitutional Law
*  Property Law
*  Employment and Social Security Law
18.   Courses will blend substantive, procedural, skills, ethics and social impact objectives through teaching
in realistic contexts.
19.   In the first year, the AM component will sponsor two three-day courses in areas derived from the
needs assessment Qikely in the field of property and commercial law). The courses will be offered to all first
instance judges and appellate judges in the Lima judicial district. As result, there will be approximately
twelve offerings of each course, once to each judge in groups of about twenty-five. In the four other districts
of the Bank project the sarne courses will be offered six times to groups of about twenty-five judges. In short,
there will be thirty course offerings each year.
20.   By concentrating on needs assessment derived subjects the impact assessment (see Research below)
of the AM's activities will be reasonably traceable.
21.   Overall the AM plans to run about 100 courses in the first year, of which thirty will be conducted
under the Bank financed project and about seventy with the support of the sponsorship of the Peruvian
government and other funding agencies.
Course Monitoring and Evaluafion
22.   All courses will be evaluated by participants after each offering. As well, ongoing research activities
(referred to below) will be undertaken to study the impact of the training program on the operations of the
courts and the conduct ofjudges.



75
Research
23.   The AM has already demonstrated its serious commitment to action research that provides a basis for
the preparation of education and training programs aimed at the real and perceived needs ofjudges and
prosecutors with the Japanese grant proceeds, it carried out an initial needs assessment of civil judges in the
judicial district of Lima (see Appendix). Such initial needs assessment research provides a solid base for its
programming activities and for the preparation of a publications plan. However, its needs assessment work
will not be fully complete until a carefully conducted job analysis is carried out. In addition, as the
circumstances change the AM must be prepared to update its work.
24.   The AM will also cany out research to determine whether its programming and publications are
having the desired effect through follow-up studies done both at the time of program offering and over time
to attempt to measure the impact of education and training on job performance.
25.   In a very real sense the research and evaluation activities planned will provide the expanded basis for
determining the success or failure of the AM's programming and will provide crucial data to support
improvement of its activities.
26.   Two major research activities are planned during the period of the Bank assisted project. the first is a
longitudinal study of the impact of the work of the AM and the second is the job analysis to support the
second part of the training needs assessment.
The Impact of the AM's Activities
27.   This research project will be designed with the assistance of social science research experts both local
and foreign. Funds for international experts have been provided in the expert support section (below). The
balance of required funds are specified in the research sub-subcomponent of the budget.
28.   Such longitudinal research aimed at measuring them impact of education and training activities is
complex. However, its importance cannot be underrated. Too often educational projects have no data or
analysis upon which to predicate future action.
Learning Needs Assessment - Job Analysis
29.   The conduct of a job analysis is one of the few ways to obtain an accurate picture and description of
professional work. Where such analyses do take place they provide a rich basis for providing future
education and training activities. Through a job analysis researchers identify the main tasks, knowledge and
skills required of particular professionals in action. By studying frequency, difficulty (in both performance
and learning), importance to accomplishment and other issues, researchers are able to identify the
components of professional knowledge and practice requiring specific attention through training and support
activities. As a result programming can systematically address the requirements of competent professional
practice.



76
30.   Such fundamentally important research is relatively uncommon among education providers. It is
viewed as a foundation and necessity for the adequate operation of a professionally sound education and
training institution.
Research Pklning
31.   The AM will prepare a detailed research plan for each project specifying objectives, methodology,
personnel requirements, schedule and budget. The Bank will approve each project prior to its inception.
Publications
32.   The AM will develop four major types of publications, all of which will provide free standing
resources to support competent, quality professional practice on the job or through distance learning. First
each course offered (see topics listed above under Course Offerings) by or through the AM will be
supported by descriptive and analytical written materials and some specially crafted instructional materials.
The non-instructional materials will also be available for use by practitioners who have not attended the
courses. This has already taken place with the pilot model courses offered by the AM in October and
November with Japanese Grant proceeds. Secondly, the AM will prepare practice manuals and other free-
standing publications. Thirdly, the AM will report through publication on its research activities. Finally there
will be newsletters, magazines and professional journals dedicated to the judiciary.
33.   The number of publications each year will match the individual courses offered and the research
completed. From time to time the AM will publish the other educational and practice supports mentioned
above for its participants. These latter materials will likely include:
*  manuals in the main areas of civil and labor law practice
-  a conciliation and dispute resolution handbook
-  a guide to decision-making and judgment writing
-  a handbook on ethical judicial practice
*  a guide to litigation and caseflow management
*  a guide to professional self-development
34.   No clear proposal has been devised for the publication of newsletters, magazines or professional
journals. However, as plans progress it will become more apparent how best to serve the information and
learning ofjudges through publications.
Study Visits
35.   Judicial professional development programs and activities are now proliferating throughout the
world. It is practically impossible to keep abreast of learning in the field without a program of regular
exchanges and visits. The AM is committed to developing and maintaining its operations at the highest
possible level and had already begun to establish working relationships with similar projects in other
countries.
The main objectives include:
* the establishment and strengthening of relationships with foreign judicial education authorities;



77
* the gathering and exchange of information and experience; and
* the acquisition of new approaches to judicial professional development for application in Peru.
36.   In light of circumstances in the countries mentioned, and given needs pertinent in Peru, the AM senior
staff will undertake about seven visits (one or two each year) to some of the following organizations for the
purposes outlined following:
*  Canada - comparative legal systems and the administration ofjustice
*  Chile - exchange and study of the Chilean Judicial Academy for technical advice on operations
*  Colombia - Judicial methods in civil law
*  Costa Rica - links with the Judicial School to support training activities in the administration of justice
*  France - learning and teaching methods
*  Portugal - methods of program evaluation
*  Spain - training of candidate judges
*  USA - experience at both state and federal court levels through federal and state court education
authorities
*  Uruguay - information and experience exchange
37.   Each visit will be undertaken by two members of staff and is expected to last about two weeks on
average. This will provide sufficient time to observe and participate in the work of the foreign organization
so as to gain maximum possible benefit. On some occasions more than one site may be visited during a two
week trip.
Expert Advice
38.   The AM will of course require the periodic assistance of international consultants to stabilize and
improve its activities. It plans five annual consultations over the years of the project.
The main objectives of the consultations include:
* Curriculum and course development
* Research on the work and training ofjudges
* Technical advice in developing fields,
e.g., problem solving, decision making, judgment writing, law and economics, dispute resolution,
judicial resolution, judicial ethics, civil law and civil procedure, substantive civil and labor law.
Conclusion
39.   The AM has been in actual operation since early 1996. It has steadily developed its research and
operating plan through systematic work to ensure that it will meet the real needs of the Peruvian state and
people.
40.   However, it is unlikely that the AM component's real effects will be known until it has had the
opportunity to influence the behavior of a critical mass ofjudicial officers across a wide band of their
activities. Expertise in judicial performance cannot be transferred or created overnight. The process of
producing creative, adaptive and reflective practitioners capable of self-development can be expected to take
longer than the project life. On the other hand, there is little doubt that much progress can be made though



78
the multi-pronged efforts of training, research, publication and consultation, as has been planned by the AM
overall, and within the Bank financed project.
<Supplementary Note>
Leaming Needs Assessment
1.    AM carried out, with external experts, a training needs assessment of civil judges in the judical
district of Lima. The assessment comprised three stages: (i) design and carrying out of a survey; (ii)
organization of two focus groups ofjudges; and (iii) a workshop with litigants and other experts, national and
foreign.
2.    The survey, consisted of 45 multiple choice question and was applied to 58 judges representing 92 %
of the civil judges in Lima judicial district.
3.    Characteristics of group under the survey.
(a) Gender: 57% male, and 41% female
(b) Age:  57% under 40 years
36% 40 to 60 years
7% over 60 years
(c) Legal education:
36% - Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos
24% - Universidad Nacional Federico Villaroel
24% - Universidad San Martin de Porres
12% - Pontificial Universidad Catolica del Perui
4.    Problems in the Judiciary: Main problems identified are the excessive workload and deficient
performance of support personnel (84%). Other priority problems were the inadequate infiastucture (74%)
and lack of adequate resources (7 1 %). It showed a tendency to invoke external factors to explain the poor
performance of the Judiciary.
5.    Training needs: Training areas identified fall within three categories: (i) judicial skills; (ii) legal
knowledge; and (iii) judicial culture. As far asjudicial skills, most significant areas included evaluation of
evidence, judicial reasoning, legal writing, management, leadership and ethics. In regard to legal knowledge,
most significant areas included contractual and extracontractual liability and measurement of damages, nullity
and inefficacy of transactions, constitutional resources, administrative law, business law matters such as
competitive law, banking and insurance, securities, etc. In connection with judicial culture, most significant
areas include public relations, relationship with other branches of government, sociology and economic
impact ofjudicial decisions.



79
Annex 6
Conseio Nacional de la Mazistratura - CNM
1.    The Constitution entrusts to the CNM the powers to select and appoint judges and prosecutors with
the exception of those selected by popular election. The Council also is empowered to remove magistrates,
as well as to ratify them every seven years. The CNM, unlike judicial councils in other countries, does not
hold any responsibility for the management and administration of the court system.
2.    Previous to the 1993 Constitution, Peru has experimented various systems ofjudicial appointment.
With the 1933 Constitution, Supreme Court members were selected by the executive and legislative branches.
The appellate judges and prosecutors were selected by the executive from a "tern" proposed by the Supreme
Court. The trial judges and prosecutors were also selected by the executive from a "tern" proposed by the
respective appellate court. Finally, justices of peace were selected by the appellate courts. This system lasted
until the military regime of 1968.
3.    In 1969, the National Council of Justice was established with powers to select judges. The Council
had two representatives from the executive, two from the legislative, two from the judiciary, one from the
national federation of bar associations, one from the Lima bar association and one from each of the two
oldest universities. This composition in the Council's membership gave virtual control to the then current
regime whose control grew stronger when the representation of the Lima bar association and one of the
Universities (Cuzco) was eliminated.
4.    The Council selected but the executive appointed the magistrates. Until 1976, the executive always
appointed the candidates selected by the Council. However, in November 1976 such situation changed when
a Supreme Court candidate proposed by the Council was rejected by the executive. This prompted the
resignation of the president and vice-president of the Council.
5.    With the 1979 Constitution, the Magistracy Councils are established modeled after the previous
Council. The Councils would have no direct representation from the political branches but Supreme Court
nominees required Senate approval and judges continued to be appointed by the executive from a "tern"
proposed by the Councils. The National Council comprised the Public Prosecutor, two Supreme Court
representatives, one representative from the Federation of Bar Associations and two representatives from law
schools. Such Council proposed nominees for the Supreme Court and appellate courts. At each judicial
district, there existed a respective district council. Such district councils were formed by the senior public
prosecutor. The two most senior members of the appellate court and two representatives from the local bar
association. Such district councils proposed nominees for the trial courts. Unlike the previous Council, the
National Council had no representation from either the executive or legislative. In addition, there was an
open examination. However, the tern system allowed the executive to exercise much influence.
6.    On April 8, 1992, as part of the "autogolpe", the Councils ceased to exist. In such year, several
hundreds ofjudges were dismissed and replaced by provisional judges. In 1993, the Constitutional Congress,
charged with drafting the new constitution, determined to resolve the provisional status of most of the
Judiciary.



80
7.    Recognizing that the process to set up the new constitutional bodies involved in the selection of
judges would take considerable time, the Constitutional Congress established an interim Jury of Honor. The
Juiy consisted of a committee of five prestigious jurists charged with the evaluation of all provisional judges
and prosecutors and the filling of vacant positions. The Jury of Honor existed for two years until the CNM
came into being. In those two years, the Jury of Honor completed the selection of Supreme Court judges and
appelate and trial judges in the Lima judicial district. Despite much difficulties, the Juiy is recognized for
undertaking a merit-based selection process.
8.    The CNM, unlike previous Councils, has the following features: (a) contrary to the 1979
Constitution, there is only one national council; (b) the membership includes one representative from the
Supreme Court, one from the Public Ministry, one from the bar association, two from professional
associations, one from public universities and one from private universities; (c) it has a broader mandate than
the one afforded in the 1979 constitution; it appoints, ratifies and removes judges and prosecutors at all
levels; (d) the Council does not propose candidates in "tern" to the executive but selects the nominee and
makes the formal appointment; and (e) cannot select candidates unless they have approved the respective
training courses offered by the AM.
9.    It is widely recognized that the CNM is an important and positive step in improving the selection
system ofjudges. However, while the prospects of a judicial career remain unattractive, the best selection
system will fail. It is conditioned by the limited pool of well trained candidates. These limiting factors include
a deficient legal education present in the great majority of applicants plus the unattractive environment under
which judges operate with political control and limited resources.
10.   The CNM has initiated its operations in March 1995. Since then, it has completed the appointment of
all the positions held by provisional magistrates at the appelate level. It has now to complete the appointment
of all trial level positions held by provisional magistrates. To this effect, CNM has drawn up a time-based
plan, in coordination with AM, to complete such process (see Annex 1 for the policy letter)
11.   The project intends to support CNM, by providing technical assistance, in key areas identified during
project preparation such as perfecting its system of selection of magistrates, designing an adequate system of
evaluation and strengthening its management skills.



81
Annex 7
Defensoria del Pueblo - DP
1.   Defensoria del Pueblo, the Office of Public Defenders, is one of the new institutions established by the
1993 Constitution to promote democracy in Peru. The Articles of Constitutions 161 and 162, and the Ley
Organica de la Defensoria del Pueblo (law 26250) issued in 1995 govern the norms and functions of this
office and the role of ombudsman, or Defensor del Pueblo.
2.   DP is an autonomous organ of the State, whose mandate originates from Congress. Its specific
responsibilities include: (i) protecting the constitutional and fundamental rights of citizens and communities
before the power of the State; (ii) supervising the status of compliance by public administration with their
mandated obligations; and (iii) supervising the provisions of public services. Based on the experience learned
under the 1979, the new DP acts independently of the function of the Ministry of Public. DP prepares and
presents its budget before the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the Budget Commission of Congress.
3.   The 1993 Constitution has established that DP is to be designated by Congress with two-thirds of
votes. DP will be elected for five years and can be reelected one more time for another five years. The first
ombudsman, Defensor del Pueblo, was elected in April 1996. Under his leadership, immediately the basic
organizational structure has been developed, and the office initiated its activity in September 1996. To
develop an efficient institution capable of responding to public demands quickly, DP's office plans to rely on
qualified, but a small number of professional and support staff, with reduced bureaucracy. In the initial stage,
DP's office plans to develop the functioning system for public attention and processing various types of
complaints (see chart below).
4.   DP plans to consolidate and expand its activities in a phased manner. In Lima, in addition to the
principal office of DP, it is expected to open five offices in the densely populated urban marginal areas, where
the incidence of poverty and the need for defense of basic rights are high (e.g., Cono Norte, Cono Sur, Ate-
Vitarte and el Callao). Furthermore, the Ley Organica del DP envisages gradual decentralization of DP's
office by establishing branch offices in all the departments in Peru; however, the speed of this process
critically depends on the availability of budgetary resources. Decentralized, departmental offices would
primarily rely on professionals in respective geographical areas so that the offices could benefit from their
knowledge of specific local situations and problems. DP's office also plans to work closely with university
students, who have shown enthusiasm and willingness to accumulate practical and professional experience as
promoters.
5.   Support to rural Andean regions is another priority area for this office. Rural Andean regions currently
face the challenging task of population migration ("poblaciones desplazadas")--legacy of the recent past years
that suffered from terrorist violence. With gradual restoration of peace, an increased number of people are
returning back home, and it is expected that their demand for DP's assistance in reestablishing the base of
their living with dignity, welfare and security would increase significantly. Under " Programa de Apoyo al
Repoblamiento", DP has recently initiated the coordination of this effort and has been working closely with
the other organs of the State, as well as donor agencies which have offered support in this area (e.g.,
USAID).



- 82
6. The proposed Bank project will support the institutional development of the DP's office in the areas of
(Q) its organizational structure and functions, norms and procedures-through advisory services, strategic
workshops, evaluation studies, and stafftraining; (i) environmental protection, native communities, and
cizen rights in the market economy-through studies and workshops-and the organization of the fonum  to
promote the coordination between the State and civil society, (iii) public campaign and dissemination of DP
activities, including the preparation and distnbution of materials in native languages and regional workshops;
and (iv) support to the first phase of decentralization efforts, by providing informatic and other logistic
support to central offices in Lima (Lima HDQ and Callao) and two offices in the other departments Ci.e.,
Piura, Arepa).
Chart:                                             Q F          O"I
LA DEflR.QR4                  D  PUO?
F AROCd IMUENTOS     
Tramtaci deo  O s    Motoree do sitclones
CwsliudnOfaIu-Wiiac6                      prlontaas yesb dlos dt casosF
-o suaciones pspOvenicas
fl~~~~~~mr Pd *       cab   - Acc PmW
|     Analisisdetemas 
Tdmbtearntie*    Supendisah fncionamiento doela d especial interes. 
-PodvJudlcaalyM   administracidnostatalydelos   d la ora nd  informies 
-Tdb,ml Canstucional-  sorvicios puNicos      e l speciales   l
- Accinespreventivas 



83
Annex 8
Typical Pilot Program for Implementation of
New Court Procedures and Or2anization
This section provides, first, the overview of the pilot program of the new court procedures and organization
("sistema corporativo"), and then more specifics on its implementation, i.e., (i) key steps involved in the
implementation of a typical pilot program of new court organization; (ii) a plan for the evaluation and
verification of the pilot program; and (iii) the timetable for pilot implementation in the selected districts. (The
latter part is provided in Spanish.)
Overview
The first pilot program was inaugurated in the Lambayeque district (civil courts in Chiclayo, departmental
capital) in November 1996 (a medium-size district), to be followed immediately in the Lima district in April
1997 (a large-size district). A typical pilot progran involves the following steps: (i) infrastructure
remodeling; (ii) installation of hardware and software ( "sistema de registro de expedientes"y "sistema de
seguimiento de casos"); (iii) rationalization and training of human resources; (iii) diffusion; and (iv)
evaluation and statistical verification. Because of its importance as the first district-wide exercise, the
experience of the Lambayeque program will be evaluated, and the lessons learned will be diffused and
incorporated into the subsequent pilot programs in the other districts of similar size (i.e., Cono Norte, Callao,
Piura, Cusco, Arequipa, the remaining labor courts in Lambayeque). Due to its large size and complexity, the
Lima program will be treated separately. Because an integrated system (combining both "sistema de registro
de expedientes" and "sistema de seguimiento de casos') will not be available until the 3rd quarter of 1997,
the implementation of the programs in Lambayeque will occur in two phases, starting with the installation of
"sistema de registro de expedientes". However, the pilot programs planned for the 3rd quarter of 1997
onwards would have only one phase, with shorter duration.
Prior to the implementation of the Lambayeque program, the design of the new court procedures and
organization and "sistema de registro de expedientes" were tested on a small scale in both anti-drug courts
and transitory courts in the Lima District during August-October, 1996, and necessary adjustments have been
made.
The implementation of the new court organization will be carried out as a joint effort of the central tedhnical
unit and the district-level commission. At the central level, three professional teams have been established
within the Judiciary to support the implementation process--one for the northern part of the country, second
for the remaining part of the country except for Lima, and third for Lima. It is anticipated that the
implementation of the Lima program will require separately treatment due to its complexity. At the local
level, a Comision de Coordinacion Distrital (five members, typically composed of the President of the
Superior Court, 1-2 vocales superiores, and 1-2 jueces especializados) will be created in each district. The
Comision de Coordinacion Distrital, with the technical assistance of the central unit, will be responsible for
the planning, implementation, and follow-up of the pilot program. (An operational manual for each district
has been prepared by the central technical unit.) Moreover, it is expected that the Comisiones de
Coordinacion Distrital of the Lambayeque district would eventually function as a regional center of



84
excellence and assist the implementation of the new court procedures and organization in the other districts
within the same northern region.
Imnlementation Plan in Selected Districts
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.B  ...  .. .. X.:  .:;30i:0:l
~~~~~'~~... . . .. . . .               '                      .. . .     ... ..   ... . ....   '.m... .. . .. .   .     ...   ......     .....
November 1996         Lamnbayeque, 5 model
______ ______ ______ civil  courts__        _ _ _ _  _ _ _ __   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
June 1997             Lambayeque, civil       April 1997            civil courts
superior courts (as the  July 1997            civil courts
extension of the above)__________
Augus 1997            Callao                  September 1997        superior civil courts
October 1997          Cono Norte              December 1997         supreme court
(*) The implementation
plan at the Piura,
Arequipa, Cuzco districts
(1998-99) will be
adjusted, taking account
of the inital experience
of the above districts.
SDecifics
1. Etapas Claves y Tiempo Necesario
En los casos de Lambayeque and Lima including Callao and Cono Norte (un modulo de dos fases), el
proceso de inmplantacion dura nueve meses. Mas del 70% del trabajo de irnplantacion es realizado en los
primeros dos meses del proceso, el tiempo restante se mantienen en ejecucion las activitades de la Comision
de Coordinacion Distrital y de monitoreo y evaluacion de resultados. El modulo que sea implantado a partir
del tercer trinmestre de 1997 (un modulo de un fase) tendra el software de seguimiento de casos integrado a
una primera y unica fase de implantacion. Se estima que estas replicas de implantacion tendran una duracion
de cuatro meses, pues no sera necesario un seguimiento de mayor duracion. Las etapas claves en el proceso
de implantacion son las seguientes (algunas actividades seran implementadas sinmultaneamente):
* Adlequalfretrucu   (60 dfas): Acondicionar la infraestsructura actual para que responda al modelo
corporativo, orientado al usuanio del servicio, lo que permita que los equipos de especialistas y asistentes
se encuentren en ambientes separados del de los Magistrados a fin que estos cuenten con todas las
comodidates del caso para la eficiente administracion de justicia; manteniendo en ambientes separados el
area de servicios adminisrativos a fin que no se interfiera en las audiencias y diligencias propias del
proceso.



85
* Dotar de Software y Hardware (60 dias): Establecer la automatizacion progresiva del Poder Judicial,
permitiendo la sistematizacion del seguirniento del proceso y de la gestion judicial, asi como brindar
servicios de jurisprudencia y normas legales, a traves de diferentes paquetes lo que permitira realizar la
labor en forma rapida, eficiente y oportuna.
* Racionalizar los Recursos Humanos (30 dias): Forrnar profesionales para que desarrollen la labor
jurisdiccional, a fin que establecer un programa de ingreso al Poder Judicial sustentado en la capacitacion
permanente, evaluacion periodica del rendimiento, acceso a nuevos funciones y posibilidad de entrar en la
carrera de Magistrado. Todo ello para brindar seguridad juridica al ciudadano y elevar la calidad de la
carrera judicial.
* Difund&ry ValidarAcciones (30 dias): Asegurar la publicidad de todo proceso de camnbio a fin que no se
genere malestar en los abogados yjusticiables. Todo accion que se realice que genere cambio sera
refrendada por una comision conformada por Magistrados (Comision Distrital), personal de la Secretaria
Ejecutiva e incluso Abogados de reconocido prestigio.
. ElaborarEstadisficas (30 dias): Generar en forma sistematizada y a nivel nacional las estadisticas de la
labor judicial a fin de determinar las principales difucultades que se producen en los procesos judiciales,
poder medir la productividad efectiva de la administracion de justicia y realizar las acciones correctivas
que se precisen.
BoxM Mnal-de ODeracion Tipico
i1    cuent  on unastrcur e cnend siiiarU  sg iente
..-  Pescripeio Conceptualdel  Nue.o  Despacho Judic....
...   . a          ....   ............................  
---...  -.b) JuQraQ....-W:
.   .:':   ':   '   .   :.'    '    :   . ,   .- ,     : .   ' .   .  . ..... . .-   ..   ..  .....: ' 
oinc  dea)N    Dd. ....
. ,       .   '''. t>............
;.: : . .. . .. "  -   -  '  ' : ' ,b)juzados' s' ...
.... .......  iVeel isiita.....
ac   d  Mva:Dg) Moioc vluain
3. J   iogrnI deimpatco
(5~! wch~~1             pytloupo



86
2. Base de Diseno para la Evaluacion de la Implantacion de Nuevos Despachos Judiciales
* Cada modulo de implantacion de nuevo despacho sera sujeto a una evaluacion ex-post de resultados del
aumento de la productividad y disminucion del indice de congestion del sistema judicial distrito/materia.
* La evaluacion ex-post sera realizada al menos seis meses despues de iniciada la implantacion.
* La evaluacion incluira tres ambitos de analisis:
a) El analisis estadistico comparativo de indicadores de desempeno de los despachos judiciales. La
situacion antes de implantacion del nuevo despacho considerara las estadisticas de indicadores de al
menos seis meses previos a la instalacion del nuevo modelo. La situacion posterior a la
implantacion incluira un analisis de las estadisticas desde la fecha de implantacion hasta la fecha de
evaluacion. Las estadisticas de indicadores incluiran los casos ingresados, terminados y pendientes
(o circulantes); ademas incluira el indice de congestion y la tasa de congestion.
b) La realizacion de encuestas de satisfaccion de usuarios para detectar la calidad del servicio percibida
por el usuario. La encuesta debera ser realizada a un universo de usuarios que considere los
diferentes servicios (materia/instancias) y debera procesa un numero de respuestas que represente
una muestra valida en terminos estadisticos.
c) La realizacion de una encuesta de clima organizacional para detectar problemas organizacionales
intemos. La respuesta a esta encuesta debe ser anonima. El universo de encuestados debera
considerar personal de todos los cargos y debera cubrir al menos el 15% del personal total del
despacho.
* La evaluacion ex-post podra ser realizada por el propip Poder Judicial o por un tercero, ya sea una
empresa o una institucion sin fines de lucro.
* La evaluacion debera ser reportada en un informe que incluya al menos los seis capitulos seguientes:
a) Resumen Ejecutivo
b) Antecedentes del Distrito Judicial
c) Proceso de Implantacion del Nuevo Modelo de Despacho Judicial
d) Analysis Estadistico Comparativo de Indicadores
e) Encuesta de Satisfaccion de Usuarios
f) Encuesta de Clima Organizacional.



PERU
JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
Project Cost summary
I     I Total
(US$ '000)                  cUS$ '000)          Foreign    Bass
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange  Costs
A. Aikinistration of Justice
1. Modernization of Administrative Apparatus of the Judiciary  3,137.0    120.0  3,257.0  3,137.0    120.0  3,251.0               4        11
2. Court Performance Iyprovement and Monitoring
Civil and Labor Judgesents                                     1,212.5    597.5  1,810.0  1,212.5    597.5  1,810.0           33         6
Court Procedures and Organization                              4,143.0    650.0  4,793.0  4,143.0    650.0  4,793.0           14        16
Informatics and Statistics                                     1,632.2  2,494.8  4,127.0  1,632.2  2,494.8  4,127.0           60        14
Infrastructure Remodeling                                      4,127.0         -  4,127.0  4,127.0          -  4,127.0         -        14
Subtotal Court Performance Improvement and Monitoring             11,114.7  3,742.3 14,857.0 11,114.7  3,742.3 14,857.0          25        51
Subtotal Administration of Justice                                   14,251.7  3,862.3 18,114.0 14,251.7  3,862.3 18,114.0           21       62
B. Judicial Selection, Eyaluation and Training
1. Judicial Selection and Evaluation                                720.5    361.5  1,082.0    720.5    361.5  1,082.0           33         4
2. Judicial Training                                               1,785.0     75.0  1,860.0  1,785.0       75.0  1,860.0         4         6
3. Disciplinary System                                              725.0      50.0    775.0    725.0       50.0    775.0         6         3
Subtotal Judicial Selection, Evaluation and Training                  3,230.5    486.5  3,717.0  3,230.5    486.5  3,717.0          13        13
C. Access to Justice
1. Support to Jueces de Paz                                         993.0         -    993.0    993.0          -    993.0         -         3
2. Access Fund                                                    2,523.2      25.6  2,548.8  2,523.2       25.6  2,548.8         1         9
3. Support to the Office of Public Defender                       1,106.0    394.0  1,500.0  1,106.0    394.0  1,500.0           26         5                               00
Subtotal Access to Justice                                           4,622.2    419.6  5,041.8  4,622.2    419.6  5,041.8             8       17
D. Project Management and Administration
1. Project Coordination Unit                                         881.4     70.1    951.5    881.4       70.1    951.5         7         3
2. Project Management                                             1,255.0    150.0  1,405.0  1,255.0    150.0  1,405.0           11         5
Subtotal Project Management and Administration                        2,136.4    220.1  2,356.5  2,136.4    220.1  2,356.5            9        8
Total BASEINE COSTS                                                  24,240.8  4,988.5 29,229.3 24,240.8  4,988.5 29,229.3            17      100
Physical Contingencies                                               1,042.9    249.4  1,292.3  1,042.9    249.4  1,292.3          19         4
Price Contingencies                                                    837.4    192.1  1,029.6    837.4    192.1  1,029.6          19         4
total PROJECT COSTS                                                  26,121.1  5,430.1 31,551.2 26,121.1  5,430.1 31,551.2            17      108
Thu Mar 20 11;34:25 1997
p4



PERU
JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
Table 100. Administrative Strengthening
Detailed Costs
(US$ 000)
Quantities                    Unit                            Base Cost
Unit  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total Cost   1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Administrative Decentralization
Local Consulting Contract /a                                   Amount                                                          20.0    20.0    20.0    10.0    10.0            -    80.0
Local Consulting Contract /b                                   Amount                                                         300.0         -        -       -        -         -   300.0
International Consultant for Org. Study                        Amount                                                          40.0    40.0    20.0    10.0    10.0            -   120.0
Dosign and Implement MIS (SIGA) /c                             Amount                                                         100.0   500.0                   -                 -   600.0
Training of SIGA /d                                            Amount                                                           65.0    65.0         -        -        -        -   130.0
Training of Total Quality & Management Strategy, etc. /  Amount                                                                    -   180.0    20.0          -                 -   200.0
Local Consulting Contract /f                                   Amount                                                          30.0         -        -        -        -        -    30.0
National workshops                                             Amount                                                          25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0             -   125.0
Subtotal Adiniotxative Decentralization                                                                                           580.0   830.0    85.0    45.0    45.0            - 1,585.0
S. Finanoial Management - Local Consultants
New Form of Resource Mobilization                              Amount                                                           50.0        -        -        -        -        -    50.0
Local Consulting Contract /g                                   Amount                                                          70.0         -        -        -       -        -    70.0
Budget Planning                                                Amount                                                          40.0    40.0          -        -        -        -    80.0
Revision of Judicial Fees                                      Amount                                                              -   100.0         -    60.0        -        -   160.0
Local Consulting Contract /h                                   Amount                                                         100.0         -        -       -        -        -   100.0   CO
Subtotal rinancial )anageient - Local Consultants                                                                                 260.0   140.0         -    60.0         -        -   460.0    
C. Institutional Image - Local Consultants
Dosign end Implement Survey of Litigants                       Amount                                                          28.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0            -   148.0
Design and Implement Survey of Lawyers                         Amount                                                           28.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0            -   148.0
Design and Implement Survey of JP staff                        Amount                                                          28.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0            -   148.0
Design and Implement Survey of General Public                  Amount                                                           20.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0            -   148.0
Dosign TV and Radio Spots                                      Amount                                                           20.0        -        -        -        -        -    20.0
Diffusion through TV and Radio                                 Amount                                                         400.0   200.0          -        -       -         -   600.0
ubtotal Institutional Image - Looal Consultants                                                                                   532.0   320.0   120.0   120.0   120.0            - 1,212.0
Total                                                                                                                                1,372.0 1,290.0   205.0   225.0   165.0            - 3,257.0
ka For diagnosis of the existing administrative system.
\b For design of decentralized administrative sy3tem and operational manuals.
\c All districts. Non-Bank financing. (Both design and implementation.)
\d Mangers & staff: Lima 80; others 4 person per district, up to 172 persons.
\e For managers and administrative staff; between 2/98 to 1/99.
\f Adviser for institutional development.
kg Studies on strengthening economic self-sustainability of the PJ-- cost structure of judicial services $70,000.
\h For design and implementation of judicial system and preferential fee structure for low-income groupa.
Thu Mar 20 11:30:25 1997



PERU
JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
Toble 210. Civil and Labor Jadgemaents
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Quantities                   Unit                            Base Cost
Unit  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total Cost   1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    Total   1997
1. Inveatmnt Costs
National Workshops /a                                Amount                                                         130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0   130.0           -   650.0   137.7
Regional Workshops /b                                Amount                                                         25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0            -   125.0    26.5
Journal for Judges and Academics                     Amount                                                          15.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0           -   135.0    15.9
Annual Reports                                       Amou'nt                                                         30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0           -   150.0    31.8
Research Competition                                 Amount                                                             -    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0           -    80.0        -
Study Tours Abroad for Judges                        Judge      20    20    20    20    20        -   100      5   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0            -   500.0   105.9
Literature for Libraries /c                          Amount                                                             -    60.0        -        -        -        -    60.0        -
Local Contract for Library Needs Assessment /d   Amount                                                              50.0       -        -        -        -        -    50.0    52.9
Local Contract Design of Incentive System            Amount                                                             -       -        -    20.0         -        -    20.0
Local Contract Evaluate Implem. Incentive System Amount                                                                 -       -    20.0         -    20.0         -    40.0        -
total                                                                                                                  --O350.0   395.0   355               355 0        - 1,810.0   370.6
\a Twice a year, for civil, labor, ccmmercial and family.
\b Five districts at $5,000 each per year.                                                                                                                                                        v
\c Lima plus five districts at $10,000 each.
\d Including doestic trips to visit all districts (3 persons).
Thu Mar 20 11:30:30 1997



PERU
JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
Table 220. Court Procedures and Organization
Detailed Costa
(US$ '000)
Quantities                  Unit                           Base Cost
Unit    1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total Cost   1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
K. mavestment Costs
A. Judioial Poces
Workshops on Civil PC Application                                      Amount                                                             -    75.0        -    75.0             -
Training Judges -- Court Organization /a                              Amount                                                          150.0   150.0        -        -
Training Court Admin. -- Court Organization /b                        Amount                                                          250.0   250.0        -        -
Training Court Admin. -- Total Qualty                                 Amount                                                              -        -   100.0   100.0   100 0
Local Contract -- Delay Study a Quality Indicators                    Amount                                                           50.0    50.0    50.0    50.0    50.0
International Consultant -- Delay Study & Quality Indicators    Staffmonth          2      2     2     2      2     -     10    1S    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0
Subtotal Judiaial Proes                                                                                                                  480.0   555.0   180.0   255.0   18000          -
B. Court Orxanization /e
Public Campaign /d                                                    Amount                                                          250.0   250.0        -        -
Evaluation Workshops and Studies with Civil Society /e                Amount                                                          270.0   270.0   270.0   270.0   270.0
Evaluation Workshops /f                                               Amount                                                          115.0        -       -        -        -       -
International Consultant for Evaluation/Optimization                  Amount                                                          100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
National Cons. for Supervision of now court org. implementation   Amount                                                               30.0    60.0        -        -        -       -
National Cons, for Evaluation and Optimization /g                     Amount                                                              -   180.0   120.0         -        -
National Cons. for technical follow-up after *nd-98 /h              Staffmonth      -      -    24    24    24       -    72     4        -        -    96.0    96.0    96.0         -
Subtotal Court Organisation                                                                                                              765.0   860.0   S86.0   466.0   466.0          -
Total                                                                                                                                       1,245.0 1,415.0   766.0   721.0   646.0           -
\4 For five districts. 375 judges x $200 (6 weeks) - $75,000 x 2 times/year.
\b 1,500 court administrators x $200.
\c This subccmponent is closely linked to juducual information system, court automation, and civil works.
\d TaIlors de difusion (judges, lawyers, general public, etc.)
\e Twice a year at Lambayeque, Cusco, Piura, Arequipa, Lime and once a year at Cono Norte and Callao
Vf Lima $40,000. and the other districts $75,000.
\g Includes statistical verification and user surveys.
\h $4,000 x 6 persons x 4 months/year.
Thu Mar 20 11:30:35 1997



PBRU
JUDICIAL REFORH PROJECT
Table 230. Information and Statistics
Detailed Coots
(US$ '000)
Quantities                   Unit                            Base Cost
Unit  1997  1990  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total Cost   1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    Total   1997
X. 1veezemt COots
A. Motiple Data De
Design *nd Implemnt Jurisprudence Database /a Amount                                                              15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0            -    75.0    15.9
B. Judioial inffoation syste.
Design and Implemnt Case Tracking Systea /b  Amount                                                              350.0        -        -        -        -        -   350.0   370.6
Refine and Design Statistics Software /c           Amount                                                        125.0   125.0         -        -        -        -   250.0   132.4
Design Madrn  Archive Systm /d                     Amount                                                         30.0        -        -        -        -        -    30.0    31.8
Implement Modern Archive System /                  Amount                                                        650.0        -        -                         -   650.0   688.3
Subtotal Judicial 1nformation system                                                                              1,155.0   125.0         -        -        -        - 1,280.0 1,223.1
C. Court Autmation
Computes If                                         Unit       -   860      -     -      -      -   860   2.5         - 2,150.0        -        -        -        - 2,150.0        -
Printeg                                             Unit       -   10      -      -     -      -   180      1        -   180.0        -                              180.0        -
Servers - small, stand-alone                        Unit       -    34      -     -      -      -    34    13         -   442.0                                       4 _  _  -   442.0
Subtotal Court Autonatieo                                                                                                - 2.772.0        -        -        -        - 2,772.0
Total                                                                                                                   1,170.0 2,912.0    15.0    15.0    15.0            - 4,127.0 1,238.9
\a NOTE: Non-Bank financing.
\b Includes basic maintenance.  1N07T: N1C-0AK FINANCING.
\c NOTE: IMPORTANT. Non-Bank financing.
\d BANK FINANCING. By consultant services.
\e Lima $350,000 and $50,000 for each of the 6 districts. BANK FINANCING.
Allocated 701 to ICB and the rest to implementation support (by LIB; cannot put into cons, services).
\f National level, excluding criminal courts.
Thu Mar 20 11:30:40 1991



PERU
JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
Table 310. CNM - Judicial Selection and Evaluation /a
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Quantities                  Unit                            Base Cost
Unit    1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total Cost   1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    Total   1997
X. Xveetment Costs
A. Evaluacion Diseno de Reglamentoa
y Estructura Organizacional                          Amount                                                          200.0        -    50.0        -        -       -   250.0   211.8
B. Plan Estrategico Corporativo                        Amount                                                           40.0        -    40.0        -    40.0        -   120.0    42.4
C. Sietmas de Apoy
Software /b                                         Amount                                                           80.0        -       -        -        -       -    00.0    84.7
Hardware PCs /c                                     Amount                                                           45.0        -       -        -        -       -    45.0    47.7
Other equipment /d                                  Amount                                                            4.0        -       -        -        -       -      4.0     4.2
Subtotal Sistnmae do Apoyo                                                                                             129.0        -       -        -        -       -   129.0   136.6
D. Fortalociaionto de estructura organizacional        Amount                                                           30.0    30.0        -        -        -       -    60.0    31.8
E. Fort.aleoiaidnto da Centro do Informacion /e
Adquisicion do libros                               Amount                                                            2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0        -    10.0      2.1
Conexion y uso de Internet                          Amount                                                            1.0     1.0      2.0      2.0     2.0        -      8.0     1.1
Software manejo contro de documentacion             Amount                                                           15.0        -       -        -       -        -    15.0    15.9
Subtotal Fortaleciuianto do Centro de Inforuacion                                                                       19.0      3.0     4.0      4.0     4.0        -    33.0    19.1
F. Capacitacion                                        Amount                                                           10.0      5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0        -    30.0    10.6 6
G. Realizacion de estudios
Perfil do juoz                                      Amount                                                           20.0        -       -        -       -        -    20.0    21.2
Corrupcion                                          Amount                                                           20.0        -       -        -       -        -    20.0   .21.2
Perfil del personal del CNM                         Amount                                                           20.0        -       -        -       -        -    20.0    21.2
Otros estudios                                      Amount                                                              -    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0          -   160.0        -
Subtotal Realizacion de eutudios                                                                                        60.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0          -   220.0    63.5
H. Agenoy Taplezentation Staff
Project Officer                                   Staffmonth    12    12    12    12    12        -    60   2.5    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0            -   150.0    31.8
Executive Assistant                               Staffmonth    12    12    12    12    12        -    60   1.5    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0            -    90.0    19.1
Subtotal Agenay Implementation Staff                                                                                    48.0    48.0    48.0    48.0    48 .0         -   240.0    50.8
Total                                                                                                                       535.0   126.0   187.0    97.0   137.0           - 1,082.0   566.5
\a NOTE.  IMPORTANT.  Aggregated to separate CNM Legal Accounts !
\b By LIB method - 1004.
\c By LIB method - 100%.
\d By local shopping procedure.
\e By local shopping procedure.
Thu Mar 20 11:30:49 1997



PERU
JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
Table 240. Infrastructure Remodeling Civil Works
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Quantities                    Unit                            Base Cost                                         Totals Including Co
Unit  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total Cost   1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    Total   1997    1998    1999    2000
I. Tnventment Costs
A. Civil Works /a
Architectual Design /b   Amount                                                           150.0         -       -        -        -        -   150.0   158.8          -        -        -
Lima - Cono Norte /c       Amount                                                       1,031.0        -        -        -        -        - 1,031.0 1,091.8          -        -        -
Callao /d                  Amount                                                         498.0        -        -        -        -        -   498.0   527.3          -        -        -
Arequipa /e                Amount                                                              -   260.0         -        -       -        -   260.0         -   280.7         -        -
Cuzco                      Amount                                                              -   308.0        -        -        -        -   308.0         -   332.5         -        -
Lambayeque - new constr. Amount                                                                - 1,680.0        -        -        -        - 1,680.0         - 1,813.7         -        -
Piura                      Amount                                                              -   200.0        -        _    I         I      200.0         -   215.9         -        -
Total                                                                                            1,679.0 2,448.0          -       -        -        - 4,127.0 1,777.9 2,642.9           -        -
\a NOTE: All for NON BANK FINANCING
\b By local consultancy.
\c Before -- USS 8.0 million for Lima.
\d Not in previous' plan. Before, Libertad was $0.9 million.
\e Before -- $2.4 million.
Thu Mar 20 11:30:45 1997



PERU
JUDICIAL REFORMO PROJECT
Table 320. Judicial Training by the Academia de la Magistrature /a
Detailed Coate
(US$ *O00)
Quantities                   Unit                            Base Cost                      ____
Unit    1997  1990  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total Cost   1997    1998             1999    2000    2001    2002         Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Design of Courses                                                   Unit         7      -      0     -      B           23      5    35.0         -    40.0               40.0        -     115.0
S. Delivery of Courses
1. Course - Responsibilidad Civil
Lime                                                            Unit          3     -      2      1     2             a    10    30.0          -    20.0    10.0    20.0          -       00.0
Ouitside Lime                                                   Unit          -      2     2      2     2             a    15         -    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0            -     120.0
Subtotal Course - Rasponsibilidad Civil                                                                                              30.0    30.0    50.0    40.0    50.0             -    200.0
2. Course - Acoionee de Amparo en O6at*ria Eooneuioa
Lims                                                            Unit          -     2      1      1     1      -      5    10        -    20.0    10..0    10.0    10.0           ..     50.0
Outside Lima                                                    Unit          -     -      1      1     1      -      3    15         -        -    1.       150      15.0                4.
Subtotal Course - Acciones de ).Aparo en lOateria Econonioa                                                                              -    20.0    25.0    25.0    25.0           ..      95.0
3. Course - Te... ias do Conoiliaciom
Lies                                                            Unit          2     -      2      1     2      -      7    10    20.0         -    20.0    10.0    20.0           -      70.0
outside Lime                                                    Unit          -      3     2      2     2      -      9    15         -     050    30.       30.0    30.0         -     135.0
Subtotal Coursae - Teonioss de Consiliasion                                                                                          20.0    45.0    50.0    40.0    50.0             -     205.0
4. Course - Dereoho Laboral
Lims                                                            Unit          -     I      -      1     1      -      3    10        -    10.0         -    10.0    10.0          -.     30.0
Outside Lime                                                    Unit          -      1     1      -     2      -      4    15         -    1.0    15.0-               30.0                60.0
Subtotal Course - Derecho Labural                                                                                                        -    25.0    15.0    10.0    40.0            -      90.0
5. Course - Prooepal Civil
Lima                                                            Unit          3     -      2      1     2             a    10    30.0         -    20.0    10.0    20.0           -       0.0
Outside Lime                                                    Unit         -.     3      2      2     1      -           15         -    45.0    30.0    30.0    15.0           -    120.
Subtotal Course - P'rooesal Civil                                                                                                    30.0    45.0    50.0    40.0    35.0                  200.0
6. Course - Contratos
Lime,                                                           Unit          2     2      1      2     1      -      a    10    20.0    20.0    10.0    20.0    10.0                    09.0
outside Lime                                                    Unit          -     2      2      2     1      -      7    15s             30.0    30.0    30.0    15.0            -.    05.0
Subtotal Course - Contratos                                                                                                          20.0    50.0    40.0    50.0    25.0                  105.0
7. Course - Dereoho Co.eroial
Lima                                                            Unit          -     3      1      2     1      -      7    10         -    30.0    10.0    20.0    10.0                  70.0
Out4ide Lime                                                    Unit          -     -      -      I     -      -      1    15         -        -        -    15.0         -        -      15.0
Subtotal Course - Derecho coamercial                                                                                                     -    30.0    10.0    35.0    10.0            -      05.0
0. Course - Derecho Euonrioo
Lime                                                            Unit          -     3      1      1     -      -      5    10        -    30.0    10.0    10.0           -        -      50.0
outside Lime                                                    unit          -      1     1      -     -      -      2    i5         -    15.0    15.0         -30.0
Subtotal Course - Dereoho Eoonossiso                                                                                                     -    05.0    25.0    10.0           -        -      0.
Subtotal Delivery of Courses                                                                                                            100.0   290.0   265.0   250.0   235.0            -  1,140.0
C. Investigaoiones
Determinscion de necesidaded de Capacitacion I                    Amount                                                                 -    34.0         -        -        -        -      34.0
Determinacion do nocesidades do Capacitacion II                   Amount                                                                 -        -        -        -    36.0         -      36.0
Medicion do impacto actividdedz A04AG I y II                      Amount                                                                 -    30.0         -        -    30.0        -*      60.0
Criterioa Jurisprudenciales Civil y comercial                     Amount                                                                 -    25.0         -       -        -25.0
Subtotal Imve.tigaoianes                                                                                                                    -      9.0        -        -     66.0        -    15.0
D: Publicatimn
Publicaciones /b                                                  Amount                                                             10.0    25.0    25.0    35.0    40.0             -    135.0
E. Pasnatias y Besse
Paises Latinoamericanos /c                                        Amount                                                              7.0      7.0      7.0    12.0    12.0           -     0.
Otros paises /d                                                   Amount                                                              6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0         -      30.0
Sutotal Pasmatias y Becas                                                                                                               13.      13.0    13.0    10.0    10.0            .      75.0
Jr. lOonitorse del Proyecto
Project Officer                                                 Staffmonth      12    12    12    12    12        -    60   2.5    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0              -     150.0
Executive Assistant                                             Staffeonth    12    12    12    12    12          -    60   1.5    10.0    18.0    10.0    10.0    18.0                     90.00
Subtotal O0mitoreo del Proysoto                                                                                                         40.0    48.0    40.0    48.0    40.0             -     210.0
Total                                                                                                                                        206.0   465.0   391.0   351.0   447.0            -1,060.0
\aNOTE: IMPORTANT. Aggregated to separate A0AI.s Legal Accounts.
\b for Year 1-5.  1, 3, 3, '6  qnd 7 publications.
\c For two trips a year.
\d For one trip a year.
Thu Mar 20 11;31:04 1997



PERU
JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
Table 330. Oficina de Control de los Magistrados
Detailed Costo
(US$ 000)
Quantities                    Unit                     Base Cost                           Totals Including Contingencies
Unit  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total Cost  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total 1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total
I. Investment Costs
Local Consulting Contract /a            Amount                                                          80.0      -      -  80.0       -      - 160.0  84.7       -      -  90.8       -      - 175.5
Local Consulting Contract /b            Amount                                                         100.0      -      - 100.0       -      - 200.0 105.9       -      - 113.5       -      - 219.4
Local Consulting Contract /c            Amount                                                          20.0       -     -  20.0       -      -  40.0  21.2       -      -  22.7       -      -  43.9
Local consulting Contract /d            Amount                                                          20.0       -     -      -      -      -  20.0  21.2        -     -      -      -      -  21.2
Local Consulting Contract /e            Amount                                                          15.0       _     -  15.0       -      -  30.0  15.9        -     -  17.0       -      -  32.9
Workshops on disciplinary functions Amount                                                               20.0      -      -  20.0      -      -  40.0  21.2        -      -  22.7       -     -  43.9
Study tours {abroad...                  Amount                                                          10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0          -  50.0  10.6  10.8  11.1  11.4  11.7           -  55.5
Training of OCMA staff                  Amount                                                              -  40.0  40.0  40.0  40.0         - 160.0       -  43.2  44.2  45.4  46.6         - 179.5
Annual Reports and Publications         Amount                                                           15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0         -  75.0  15.9  16.2  16.6  17.0  17.5           -  83.2
Total                                                                                                        280.0  65.0  65.0 30.0  65.0           - 775.0 296.5  70.2  71.9 340.6  75.8           - 854.9
\a For diagnosis of OCA organization and proposal for improved decentralized disciplinary system.
\b For implementation of decentralized disciplinary system.
\c For operational procedures of decentralized disciplinary system.
\d For legal proposal of control system.
\e Training needs assessment.
Thu Mar 20 11:31:07 1997



PERU
JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
Table 410. Jusces de Paz
Detailed Couts
(US$ '000)
Quantities                   Unit                    Base Cost                                 Tot
Unit   1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total Cost  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total  1997    1998
I. Inve.toent Costs
A. Training
Initial Workshop and Needs Assessment /a              workshop       -     -      -     -      -     -      -            _      _     _      -      _     _      -        _        _
Local Consulting Contract - training materials /b  Amount                                                             60.0      -     -      -      -     -  60.0    63.5          -
Local Consulting Contract - selection criteria Xc  Amount                                                              8.0      -     -      -      -     -   8.0       8.5        -
Training of trainees (trainers..., methodology         Amount                                                            -  35.0       -     -      -     -  35.0         -    37.8
Training of trainees ... conciliation                  Amount                                                            -  35.0      -      -      -     -  35.0         -    37.8
Training of JP /d                                      Amount                                                            - 300.0      - 300.0       -     - 600.0         -   323.9
Subtotal Training                                                                                                        68.0 370.0       - 300.0      -      - 738.0    72.0   399.5
S. Training Evaluation
Evaluation Workshop                                   workshop                                                           -      -  30.0      -  30.0          60.0        -        -
Follow-up Study /e                                     Amount                                                            -      -  60.0      -      -     -  60.0         -        -
Client Survey Study /f                                 Amount                                                         20.0      -  20.0      -      -         40.0    21.2         -
Subtotal Training Evaluation                                                                                             20.0      - 110.0      -  30.0       - 160.0    21.2         -
C. Normative Revision
Local Consulting Constract /g                          Amount                                                         15.0      -     -      -      -     -  15.0    15.9          -
Regional Workshop /h                                   Amount                                                         80.0      -     -      -      -     -  80.0    84.7
Subtotal Normative Revision                                                                                              95.0   _         _     _      _      -  95.0   100.6
Total                                                                                                                         183.0 370.0 110.0 300.0  30.0        - 993.0   193.8   399.5
\a To be funded by the PHRD grant ($35,000).
\b About 6 staffmonths.
\c About 2 staffmonths.
\d 60 workshops for 20 persons each (per year).
\e About 5 staffmonths per study.
\f About 3 staffmonths per study.
\g For review of JPNL norms; about 4 staffmonths.
\h Discussion of No-Letrados norms; 1 x 4 districts.
Thu Mar 20 11:31:11 1997



PERU
JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
Table 420. Access Fund
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Quantities                  Unit                          Base Cost                                      Totals Including Co
Unit    1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total Cost   1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    Total   1997    1998    1999    2000
I. Inve.ta.nt Costs
Local Consultant /a    Staffmonth      1     -      -     -     -      -     1     4     4.0        -       -       -        -       -     4.0      4.2       -        -       -
Diffusion of Fund         Amount                                                         5.0      5.0     5.0     5.0      5.0       -    25.0      5.3     5.4      5.5     5.7
Advisory Committee /b    Amount                                                         15.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0         -   135.0    15.9    32.4    33.2    34.1
Fund Implementation /c    fund         -    10    10    10    10       -    40 50.82       -   588.2   588.2   588.2   588.2         - 2,352.8        -   588.2   588.2   588.2
Publications              Amount                                                           -      8.0     8.0     8.0      8.0       -    32.0        -     8.6      8.8     9.1
Total                                                                                        24.0   631.2   631.2   631.2   631.2         - 2,548.8    25.4   634.6   635.7   637.0
\a For model contract.
\b Four persons, two time a year. (S125/day x 30 days).
\c With NO physical and price contingencies.  301 to Unallocated account.  Beneficiary's contribution is estimated at about 15% of total cost.
Thu Mar 20 11:31:16 1997



PERU
JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
Table 430. Support to the Office of Public Defender /a
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Quantities --                 Unit                             Base Cost
Unit      1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total Cost   1997            1998    1999    2000    2001    2002          Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Initial Institutional Developmlent
International Consultants /b                             10day visit        1     -      1      -      -      -      2  11.5    11.5          -    11.5         -        -        -    23.0
Workahop on Native Community                               workshop         -      1     -      1      -      -      2    31         -    31.0         -    31.0         -        -    62.0
Workshop on Environment                                    workshop         -      1     -      1      -      -      2    21         -    21.0         -    21.0         -        -    42.0
International Consultants for Workshop                    workshop          -      I     -      1      -      -      2    10        -    10.0          -    10.0         -        -    20.0
Workshop on Citizen Rights and Market Economy /c    workshop                -      1      1     1      1      -      4    15         -    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0            -    60.0
Subtotal Initial Institutional Development                                                                                           11.5    77.0    26.5    77.0    15.0             -   207.0
B. Administrative Strengthening
Local Consultants /d                                     Staffmonth        12    24    24    24    12         -    96      2    24.0    48.0    48.0    48.0    24.0              -   192.0
Workshop on Evaluation and Strategic Planning              workshop         1      -      1     -      1      -      3    25    25.0          -    25.0         -    25.0         -    75.0
Internal visits for Supervision                              visit         12    24    24    24    12         -    96   0.5       6.0    12.0    12.0    12.0          6.0        -    48.0
Informatics:  Computers /e                                   Unit          45     -      -      -      -      -    45   2.5   112.5           -        -        -        -        -   112.5
Informatics:  Printers /f                                    Unit          45      -     -      -      -      -    45   0.5    22.5           -        -        -        -        -    22.5
Informatics:  Router and Half (1 each) /g                   2 units                                                              35.0         -        -        -        -        -    35.00
Informatics:  Software /h                                   Amount                                                              150.0         -        -        -        -        _   150.0        CO
Informaticsx  Maintenance contract /i                      Amount                                                                30.0         -        -        -        -        -    30.0
Project Officer                                          Staffmonth         6    12    12    12        6      -    40   2.5    15.0    30.0        30.0    30.0    15.0           -   120.0
Local Executive Assistant                                Staffmonth         6    12    12    12        6      -    48   1.5       9.0    18.0    18.0    18.0          9.0    _         72.0
Subtotal Administrative Strengthening                                                                                              429.0   108.0   133.0   108.0    79.0              -   857.0
C. Coozdination between State and Civil Society
Forum with Public Sector and Poder Judicial               workshop          1      1     -      -      -      -      2    10    10.0    10.0           -        -        -        -    20.0
Workshop with Labor-professio ------                      workshop          1      1     -      -      -      -      2    15    15.0    15.0           -        -                 -    30.0
Study Tours                                                  trip           2     2      2      2      2      -    10   3.6       7.2      7.2       7.2      7.2      7.2        -    36.0
Subtotal Coordination between State and Civil Sooiety                                                                               32.2    32.2        7.2      7.2      7.2         -    86.0
D. Public Campaign and Diffusion
Local Contract on Design of Materials/Translation          Amount                                                               110.0         -        -        -        -        -   110.0
Diffusion in Spanish/native language                        Amount                                                               50.0    50.0          -        -        -        -   100.0
Regional Workshops                                           forum          6     6      6      6      6      -    30      3    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0              -    90.0
Local Contract on Opinion Survey and Evaluation             survey          -      1     -      1      -      -      2    25        -    25.0          -    25.0         -        -    50.0
Subtotal Public Campaign and Diffusion                                                                                             178.0    93.0    18.0    43.0    18.0              -   350.0
Total                                                                                                                                    650.7   310.2   184.7   235.2   119.2             - 1,500.0
\a NOTE: IMPORTANT. Aggregated to separate DP Legal Accounts !
\b Help define competency of DP; 11/97 & 11/99 biannual with travel.
\c For business, public sector, or academia. April each year.
\d Organization, structure and procedures.
\e By LIB method.
\f By LIB method.
\g To be grouped together, by LIB method.
\h By LIB method.
Xi By LIB method.
Thu Mar 20 11:31:20 1997



PERU
JUJDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
Table 910. Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Quantities                    Unit                     Bass Cost                                   Totals  cIne
Unit    1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total Cost  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total  1997                   1998    1999
I. Investment Costa
A. Project unit Staff
PCUJ Coordinator                                 Staffmonth       12    12    12    12    12         -    60      4  48.0  48.0  48.0  48.0  48.0           - 240.0    50.8    51.8    53.1
Project Officers (2)                             Staffmonth       24    24    24    24    24         -   120      3  72.0  72.0  72.0  72.0  72.0           - 360.0    76.2    77.7    79.6
Executive Assistants (2)                         Staffmonth       24    24    24    24    24         -   120      2  48.0  48.0  40.0  48.0  48.0          -240.0    50.8        51.8    53.1
Subtotal Project Unit Staff                                                                                             168.0 168.0 168.0 168.0 168.0          - 840.0   177.9   181.4   185.7
B. Incremental Equipment Needs /a
Computers                                            unit          -      -     -      3      -      -      3   2.5      -      -      - 7.5         -      -   7.5         -        -        -
Printers                                             Unit          -            -      3      -      -      3  0.5       -      -      - 1.5         -      -   .1.5        -        --
Copier                                               Unit          -            -      1      -      -      1   2.5      -      -      - 2.5         -      -   2.5         ---
Subtotal Incremental Equipment Needs                                                                                         -     -11.5                -      -  11.5         -        --
C. Unit Staff Training and seminars
Domestic Visits to Project Areas                    Amount                                                             2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0          -  10.0      2.1       2.2      2.2
Overseas Missions on training and workshops   Amount                                                                  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0          -  60.0    12.7       13.0    13.3
Subtotal Unit Staff Training and Seminars                                                                                14.0 14.014.0 14.0 14.0 -   70.0                   14.8     15.1    15.5    'C
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                       182.0 182.0 182.0 193.5 182.0         - 921.5   192.7   196.5   201.2
II. Recurrent Costs /b
A. Operating Costs
Supplies                                            Amount                                                             6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0          -  30.0       6.1      6.2      6.3
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                          6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0         -30.0         6.1      6.2       6.3
Total                                                                                                                         100.0 188.0 188.0 199.5 188.0         -  51.5 198.8   202.7   207.5
\a By local shopping method.
\b By straight-line 20% Bank financing; local counterpart, 80%.
Thu Mar 20 11:31:27 1997



PERU
JUDICIAL REFORM PROJECT
Table 920. Project Management
Detailed Costs
(US$ '000)
Quantities                   Unit                            Base Cost
Unit    1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total Cost   1991    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    Total   1997
I. Investment Costs
A. Consultants
Short-term International Consultant             staffmonth      2      2     2      2      2     -    10    15    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0    30.0             -   150.0    31.8
Short-term Local Consultant                     Staffmonth      2      2     2      2     2      -    10      4      8.0      8.0     8.0      8.0      8.0        -    40.0       8.5
Subtotal Consultants                                                                                                   38.0    38.0    38.0    38.0    38.0           -   190.0    40.2
S. Planning, Evaluation and Audit
Project Launch, Mid-term and Final Workshop  workshop           1      -      1     -      1     -      3    30    30.0         -    30.0        -    30.0         -    90.0    31.8
Financial Audit                                   audit         1      1      1     1     1      -      5    25    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0            -   125.0    26.5
Subtotal Planning *lvaluation and Auit                                                                                 55.0    25.0    55.0    25.0    55.0           -   215.0    58.2
C. Management Fees
UNDP Administration Fees /a                       Amount                                                           350.0   175.0   175.0   150.0   150.0           - 1,000.0   350.0
Total                                                                                                                       443.0   238.0   268. 0   213.0   243.0          - 1,405.0   448.5
\a Govt decided to employ UNDP for ALL procurement in this project.  The mission informed the authority that this is NOT a requirement of the Bank's financing. 
Thu Mar 20 11:31:32 1997



IBRD 26572R
Fo   78                                      74Y                    72,                    I ,
0. O
&   ECUADOR                       f                                   COLOMBIA                            1
.2                                                                            to           @                                            !'--2-
$    C~~~~~~~~r4
ta~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ T >R E T/
En Al                                                                                                                               I -
2_Xt                                                                                                                    /1Sv2     
Bey    ;                    ,AncrQue~ do _          
T-lor   tk05.Q;E,t!E        00040    \ 'odza
I,   E ~ ~  ~ ~ A
+     /'-  \?, ,.y                                                                        -        PAVED ROADS
Lto                                         S A N                                                    .... HIT  ........OTHER ALL-WEATHER ROADS
AJAMARCA                                                                      -"----.MARTIRAILROADS
4  Mog  var nubncuiUd -J                   00-       .                          - = *  * u .   RAILFERRY
Pocsmoo       ,        itotoJ ba                                                                +    AIRPORTS
,LA,t.eAD              T' Tche                                                    -t    PORTS                          8.
\noYmt%~~~~~t~~ Moo    ~          ~         ~         ~         c'- poRIVERS
If j       -          '\j v$-         ojf *+            7                        DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
.   -tt  SCanos   '->                                                     ---Z *4   )   _*    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
,,>A N C A4, S H             TIr   i     
.ANC<HUA            HUANtJCO KUNJ_
PASC~
to'                           1fole         4       UNCo    -~'~                     UAAio                                                          0'
p  A    C_  I  F  I  C                                "CERRODE0L,M oo  J                                                   B  R A  Z  I L
LioE     + A                                                        ARE T          00
0    C    E  A   N             .               naswba     , uN   '
'.2'                                                       Oft,  hunt0C A,               I       o-            .M A D R E  D E  D I O S
Youynu0sO                                                              PUERTO 
(;      H YuaO  ,(UbANC bE'.CA  OQuillo6I,mho   t        &" .AAALDONAPQV - ft
-  :VIOO 9QAYUANC UELC     O        ln  O     -  0          --          x
0  S v n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1t  CUZCO P^Ct,Puourtnrnho  9
140                                                                                                                                                 4
-   0ICAsgz AYACUCHO              jh        rJt
-            0   XN  /)gt ~~~~~~~~~~~'Puqi      P7 u~ tiraui             X    g                    0 .   ^
) ~~~~~~~~~Hunn
P E RVU:- :-                                                  r                                            <. Ii 9-- 
16                                --                                                                                         NO1 A  0  U I P A
9   50  190 1'S  200  25                    <''.UE'Cru
Thbh ToAudrCoo1 colors, dooooniooos o   Qtre ira*j-'-                                                      T      AT N,JA,,A               u
shbou co this mop do n.o imply, on the port of The World Book Group.-                                               'MIcullo
1B4     airy juclgmdtot 7b7ot on thle I sotsofl vor werritory, orony .o  - ..1-meot                                                               18
orac-pt-eoof nodshbootdodn:   -Bon ro                                                                               Tt~$
80                ,0            ,                      7''                                            Ar    7;6CHILE;
MAY 1996



IMAGING
Report No.:        17137  PE
Type:     SAR



