Report No. PIC2426
Project Name              Peru-Judicial Reform Project
Region                    Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                    Public Sector Modernization
Project ID                PEPA40107
Borrower                  Government of Peru
Implementing Agencies     Judiciary, Consejo Nacional de la Magistratura,
Academia de la Magistratura, and Defensoria del
Pueblo (*) Project Coordination Unit:
Oficina Tecnica de Cooperacion Internacional
del Poder Judicial, Palacio de Justicia,
Lima, Peru
Tel (511) 4288085-86
Date PID Prepared         November 15, 1996
Appraisal Date            October, 1996
Projected Board Date      March/April 1997
Background
1.   The past five years in Peru have seen dramatic reforms in economic
policy for growth and social development. These reforms have occurred
within the context of a redefinition of the role of the state, codified
in the new Constitution adopted in 1993 which narrows the state's
mandate away from productive activities and reorients government's role
in the delivery of key public services. To date, institutional reform
and restructuring have taken particular aim at the redefinition of the
regulatory framework, the alleviation of poverty, and the improvement of
conditions for private sector participation in economic growth.
However, Peru's public institutions remain fragile and the issue of
institutional sustainability is of paramount importance. In recognition
of this fragility, the government has committed itself to a program of
State modernization.
2.   Modernization of the State involves an effective rule of law, a
modern legal system and an adequate administration of justice. These are
indispensable conditions to create a favorable investment climate, to
alleviate poverty and to incorporate all social sectors to the
productive process. This will not only ensure the efficiency and
stability of economic transactions but also the promotion of employment,
income and standard of living of the poorest people.
3.   Substantial updating of the legal and regulatory framework for
economic transactions has occurred in Peru in recent years. However, as
pointed out in the Bank's private sector assesment, serious shortcomings
exist in the application and interpretation of laws by the courts. The
judicial sector largely fails to apply and interpret laws in an
equitable, effective and efficient manner. Surveys and reports confirm
the reality of a judiciary with unpredictable and low quality outcomes,
unreasonable times to diposition, low levels of accesibility and



extensive politization and corruption.
4.   Thus, the Peruvian judiciary sector is behind the times. Profound
reforms are required in the justice system in order to facilitate the
consolidation of economic reforms, encourage the productivity of
enterprises and foster the integration of the poorest people into the
productive process. Without a solid and respected justice system capable
of guaranteeing in practice security of person and property, the
aspirations of people, especially the poor, to participate in the
benefits of economic and social opportunity cannot be fulfilled, and
private sector development is disencouraged.
5.   The judicial system in Peru shows an inadequate performance when
measured against basic standards and principles of independence and
accountability, access, efficiency and professional competence and
integrity. This is reflected in the absence of a transparent and
merit-based career system, weak disciplinary systems, low budgets and
salaries, deficient court and case administration, weak monitoring of
the judicial system, a lack of financial independence (due to the
judiciary's limited resource generation capacity and low priority
assigned in the government's budget), poor physical infrastructure and
logistics, insufficient and uneven distribution of courts, limited
availability and use of ADR mechanisms, inadequate legal education and
judicial training, low ethical standards, etc.
6.   The root causes of such inadequate justice system are varied and
profound. Many studies and articles suggest that the above problems
result from a political environment and legal culture that have
relegated the judicial system in Peru to a minor and deliberately
underfunded appendage of the executive branch, thus keeping the courts
from making their rightful contribution to good governance. With a
tradition of patronage in political appointments, outside interference
in judicial proceedings and pervasive corruption, the courts have been
prevented from becoming fair, objective and efficient arbiters of
disputes. In a more general sense, this also reflects expectations,
values and priorities in a society at large. There is a need to
reaffirm cultural respect for the rule of law. This contradiction or
gap between law and practice inhibits citizen participation, investment,
trade and cooperation and rather fosters distrust, cynicism, the seeking
of unfair advantage and other impediments to social and economic
development. Reestablishing such cultural respect for the rule of law
will allow to bridge the gap that exists between law and reality.
Judges have an important and institutional role in bridging and making
effective the rule of law.
Objectives
7.   The objective of the project is to provide better justice in civil
and commercial dispute resolution by improving the access, efficiency,
quality, integrity and independence of the justice system. The
achievement of these objectives would increase public trust and
confidence in the justice system, and thus improve the competitive
environment for conflict resolution.
Description
-2-



8.   To achieve the above objectives, the project would support selected
initiatives in the first stage of a comprehensive and long-term reform
program of the justice system. These selected initiatives would improve
the 'supply' of the services of the Judiciary as well as strengthen
'demand' for better judicial services--both inside and outside the
formal system. On the 'supply' side, the project would strengthen basic
institutions in the judicial sector and support a set of focused,
specific activities aimed at improving judicial performance at selected
five districts: Lima (including Cono Norte and Callao), Arequipa, Cuzco,
Lambayeque, and Piura. In this respect, the project aims to create five
'centers of excellence' showing short-term, tangible and measurable
results with demonstration effects to the rest of the judicial
districts. A phased, pilot approach would be taken, with initial
activities focusing on the Lima district where judicial appointment by
the CNM has been completed. The experience of the Lima pilot would be
evaluated and disseminated before the pilot is replicated to the other
districts. On the 'demand' side, the project would support greater
public demand and accessibility to judicial services through the
strengthening of the Justice of Peace and the Defensor del Pueblo and a
demand-driven 'Access Fund' to promote ADR initiatives and other
innovative activities to develop the capacity of the civil society for
demanding and monitoring judicial performance.
(A) Administration of Justice. This component will support two
categories of activities to improve the quality of judicial services:
(i) the modernization of administrative apparatus of the Judiciary in
planning, budgeting and managing the judicial system, mainly through the
strengthening of general management of the Supreme Court and the
Superior Courts (i.e., administrative decentralization through training
and the implementation management information system, financial
management, improving the image of the Judiciary); and (ii) court
performance improvement pilots in selected districts through the
implementation of a set of focused, monitorable programs such as: (a)
judicial decisions--national and regional workshops to diagnose the
uniformity of judicial decisions, and the design and implementation of
incentive systems associated with the quality of judicial performance,
(b) court procedures and organization--a series of workshops for judges
to evaluate the application of new civil procedural code, annual delay
studies, and the implementation of new court organization (diffusion,
training, evaluation), (c) the development of judicial information
systems in the areas of registry and document processing based on
standardized format, caseflow management, statistics, multiple data base
(both legislation and cases), and court automation, and (d)
infrastructure remodeling of central courthouses in each of the selected
districts.
(B) Judicial Selection, Evaluation, and Training. This component
will assist: (i) the CNM in strengthening the norms and system for
selection, destitution, and ratification of judges, studies on
corruption and judges' profile, the strengthening of its strategic
planning capacity, information support, and staff training; (ii) the AM
in the implementation of comprehensive and integrated training programs
for civil and labor judges in the selected districts to upgrade their
judicial skills and aptitudes, strengthen their knowledge in selective
business law matters, improve ethical standards and instill a 'culture'
-3 -



of service; and (iii) the Office of Supervision of the Magistracy of the
Judiciary (Oficina de Control de los Magistrados) in strengthening a
disciplinary system.
(C) Access to Justice. This component will support: (i) the Justice
of Peace (JP) and community authorities through the provision of
training on conciliation techniques, the initial baseline and follow-up
evaluation studies on the performance of JPs (to measure the impact of
training programs), and the development and revision of laws and
regulations for the JP system; (ii) a demand-driven 'Access Fund' to
finance eligible subprojects aimed at: a) promoting ADR mechanisms
(e.g., training of mediators and arbitrators, development of training
materials, mediation and arbitration to the public); and b)
strengthening the capacity of civil society for demanding and monitoring
judicial performance (e.g., recopilation and publication of data on
judicial performance, public opinion surveys, civic education efforts,
'court watch' activities, monitoring of judicial ethics and judicial
appointments); and (iii) the newly created Office of Defensor del Pueblo
(DP) to refine its organizational structure, norms and procedures,
carry out baseline and follow-up analyses/workshops on the issues
related with native communities, environmental protection, and the
relationship between citizens and the public/judicial sector
institutions, and provide other logistic and informatic support.
Financing
9    The project would finance consulting services, training, equipment,
and physical infrastructure through the following integrated components.
The total project costs, including price and physical contingencies, are
estimated to be $29 million. A Bank loan of approximately US$21 million
is proposed. In addition, the project preparation has benefited greatly
from a Japanese PHRD Grant (57.6 million Yen). The IDB has been
providing a technical assistance grant (US$1.4 million from MIF) for ADR
and is also in the process of preparing parallel financing for a loan of
US$5-10 million to support the judicial sector. There has been close
coordination between the Bank and the IDB during preparation, including
joint missions. The IDB project would focus on access to justice, such
as training of Justice of Peace, and courtroom modernization and
infrastructure improvement in decentralized Juzgados de Paz that are not
covered under the Bank project.
Implementation
10. There are four implementing agencies: the Judiciary, the Consejo
Nacional de la Magistratura, the Academia de la Magistratura, and the
Defensoria del Pueblo. Because this is the first proposed project for
the sector and in light of their unfamiliarity with Bank operations, the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was established within the Judiciary
with the responsibility for executing the Japanese grant for the
preparation of the Bank project--in collaboration with the other
implementing agencies--and coordinating the support from other donors.
During the project implementation, the PCU would be responsible for
assisting each of the four implementing agencies in the project
execution and monitoring the progress of the project components, both
physically and financially.
-4-



Lessons from Prior Bank Experience
10. Since this project would represent the Bank's first operation in
support of judicial reform in Peru, no lessons of sectoral experience
are available. Moreover, given the relative recent history of Bank
involvement in the judicial sector, there has not been much experience
in the area from which to draw lessons, except for Venezuela and Bolivia
(under implementation) and Ecuador (approved by the Board in July 1996).
Experience with the Venezuela Judicial Infrastructure Project suggests
the desirability of prior strengthening of the implementing agency and
unit, especially given the limited experience in the judicial sector
with project planning and implementation; the establishment of a broad-
based advisory commission to ensure communication among agencies that
affect and are affected by the project; and constant reinforcement of
the commitment and ownership of the project by Government and the
judicial sector. Recent Bank efforts in Bolivia and in the preparation
of the Ecuador Judicial Reform Project reinforce the need for these
three elements: (i) professional and functioning coordination units;
(ii) the establishment of clear coordination responsibilities across
branches of Government; and (iii) commitment and understanding of
changes by the Judiciary.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
11. The project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy and
the recent policy dialogue held with the Government at the time of the
Bank programming mission in December 1995. In particular, the project
would assist in the process of the modernization of the state, improve
public sector management in support of growth, assist in poverty
alleviation and provide improved and alternative conflict resolution
mechanisms for the private sector. The absence of a credible and
efficient Judiciary and alternative dispute resolution (ADR) mechanisms
adversely affects the enabling environment for private sector
development and contributes to inequities in access to justice by the
poor. Bank support of the Government's economic program in the areas of
private sector development and the social sectors is hampered by the
lack of attention to problems in the judicial sector. The Bank's
expertise in administrative strengthening, its perceived objectivity in
a sensitive area, and its support for the Government's economic reform
program provide the rationale for Bank involvement.
Participatory Approach and Sustainability
12. For judicial reform, and any institutional reform in general, to be
sustainable and viable over the long-run, it requires consensus and a
broad participation from the legal community as well as the civil
society. During preparation, a carefully-designed participatory
approach has been taken to build an internal consensus leading to
reform. A series of workshops and meetings were organized and continued
to be planned for: (i) judges and key agencies to be involved in the
project (seeking the cooperation and consensus on project design, and
evaluating and sharing the pilot experience in Lima); and (ii) more
broadly the civil society, including bar associations, NGOs, the
business community, and other users of the system (aimed at information
sharing, consultation, and evaluation on reform progress). For example,
- 5 -



during pre-appraisal, two workshops were organized by the PPU with the
funding of the Japanese Grant--'Access to Justice' with the
participation of DP, Jueces de Paz Letrados, NGOs, academics, and other
authorities; and 'Judicial Reform' with the participation of about 35
judges mostly from Lima in collaboration with the Judiciary, the AM, and
the CNM. These workshops resulted in a major success and confirmed the
existence of: (i) strong motivation and commitment among judges to
reform; (ii) the high degree of consensus among them on problems and
actions to be taken; and (iii) strong interest in civil society in
participating in the reform process. Proposals made at the workshops
have been taken into account the further design of the project.
13. The sustainability of the project will depend in part on the
continued commitment of the Judiciary itself and the government to
judicial reform. Interest in this comprehensive reform program is
shared between the Executive and the Judiciary. The Executive views
judicial reform as an integral component of its plan of government,
supporting its economic reform objectives as well as its aim to
modernize state institutions.
Project Benefits
14. The project is expected to strenghten the capacity of the Judiciary
to build and sustain its independent role, to improve the enabling
environment for private sector development, and to increase the access
to justice for the citizenry. More specific benefits include increased
courtroom productivity and efficiency, thereby reducing the private and
social costs of dispute resolution and improve equity in access to
justice. Benefits also include reductions in the time of delay in court
actions, reduced case backlogs, and improved quality of decision making
by judges and justices of the peace.
15. Although the project has limited focus in terms of its scope and
direct counterpart agencies, by restoring essential capabilities of a
simple, but functioning judicial system, it would indirectly contribute
to strengthening the other areas of the system.     First, the project
would support measures to improve economic independence of the
Judiciary. Although budget allocation is partly a function of overall
resource constraints, the Judiciary must be able to seek the resources
needed to meet its responsibilities, use those resources prudently, and
account for their use. It must be also able to raise separate resources
(from user charges) to secure its financial base. The low salary level
of the judicial sector that hinders attracting capable personnel, poor
infrastructure etc.--these problems are caused in part by the inability
of the judiciary to manage and assign resources efficiently and
effectively. The project would strengthen financial management,
implement new fee structure, and reform incentive schemes for judges,
administrative and court personnel. Second, the project is designed to
strengthen the functioning of selected, fundamental pieces of the
justice system: the Judiciary, CNM, AM, and DP. To this end, discrete
activities have been identified: e.g., modernization of court
management, judge training, development of a merit-based recruitment and
advancement system (transparent and impartial selection and promotion
process for judges), infrastructure improvement, and initial
institutional development of newly created DP. With improved incentive
- 6 -



structures, a reorganized, modern court system, and a performance
monitoring system put in place, the project would contribute to
strengthening the functioning of selected, key judicial institutions in
an integrated manner. In particular, the strengthening of CNM
(performance monitoring of judges), AM (training), and DP (ombudsman) is
expected to have spill-over effects in the entire judicial sector.
Third, although the project will not involve criminal courts or
Constituitonal Tribunal, the resources saved by the increased efficiency
in the other areas can be devoted to these aspects of the judicial
system. Additionally, better civil courts would improve the overall
image of the Judiciary, thus increasing popular trust in the
institutions. This is closely related to the second point above. In
this way, the project would bring about positive externalities to the
entire justice system, including criminal justice and Constitutional
Tribunal. Fourth, the project is designed to build the social capacity
for monitoring the progress in judicial reform by broadly involving the
civil society--such as bar associations, NGOs, universities, the
business community, NGOs, and the other users--in the evaluation of
reform process and outcome. It is expected that such efforts would
result in a better system of checks and balances as provided in the new
Constitution and contribute to achieving stronger judicial independence.
Project Risks
16. Despite new opportunities and impetus provided by recent
developments, the project faces challenges and potential risks. It must
be recognized that this is a project in a very sensitive sector. Major
risks include: (i) medium-term sustainability of the project; (ii) a
lack of coordination among the key implementing agencies involved in the
reform; (iii) weak institutional capacity for the implementation of the
project; (iv) resistance to change from key groups, including judges,
court personnel, businessmen and litigants, with vested interests in the
current system; and (v) political interference and potential instability
in the project environment. The proposed project incorporates features
which would help mitigate such risks as follows:
17. First, regarding the issue on medium-term sustainability, Bank
preparation has been placing special emphasis on the engagement of key
players, who would be responsible for the implementation of the project.
Major efforts are being made in identifying a core group of reform-
minded judges to assume leadership in project preparation and who would
actively participate in the court performance improvement pilot in the
Lima district; these judges are expected to play a lead role when the
pilot is replicated at other districts. The project also would promote
the participation of the civil society in monitoring progress in
judicial reform to increase the chances of sustainable change. Second,
the issue of coordination is addressed by the establishment, prior to
negotiations, of an appropriate coordination mechanism at both policy
and operational levels. Furthermore, throughout preparation, a number
of joint meetings and workshops have been organized to discuss specific
reform proposals which have bearings on various actors. Third, to
address the issue on weak institutional capacity, the project takes a
phased, pilot approach, starting in the Lima district, where there are
indications of strong leadership commitment and a sense of reform
ownership among judges. The pilot experience of Lima would be evaluated
- 7 -



and the lessons gained would be disseminated and incoporated in the
subsequent pilots in the other districts. Moreover, the Japanese PHRD
grant has been provided to set up a functioning PPU, which lializes
various agencies involved in the project and ensures the consistency of
activities. Fourth, the issue of resistance to change is expected to be
minimized through the implementation of a participatory approach and
plan, with project financing, to involve affected groups in each of the
selected districts.
18. Lastly, the issue of weak judicial autonomy, political interference
and potential instability in the project environment. An effective
judiciary requires that it function free from political interference to
ensure its impartiality in the delivery of judicial decisions. It is
widely recognized that there is no strong tradition of an independent
judiciary in Peru as other LDCs. The project intends to help the
'depolitization' of the Judiciary at different levels though it must be
clearly recognized that this is hardly an easy risk to manage or
mitigate. First, the project aims to supporting the CNM to move towards
a merit-based system of judicial recruitment and removals. The CNM
members enjoy widespread recognition in the legal community for their
objectivity and transparency. Second, several project activities
targeted to the selected districts (including court automation and
remodeling) would be conditioned on satisfactory progress toward the re-
establishment of tenure in the respective districts. Third, to
strengthen independence in decision-making, the project would support
training efforts of the AM to enhance the independent role of the judge
and reaffirm 'culture' of independence. Fourth, the project, mainly
through the Access Fund, is expected to further promote and sustain a
constituency in support of judicial reform as a means to demand and
pressure for sustainable institutional changes. Fifth, other project
interventions such as improvement in the administration of the courts
would indirectly strengthen independence by improving the standing of
the Judiciary in the community.
Poverty Category
19. Not applicable. However, the Access to Justice component would
help improve the access and quality of justice for traditional
communities and thus address the needs of the poorer segments of the
society.
Environmental Assessment
20. As this is a technical assistance project and does not have
explicit environmental components or effects, it is recommended that it
be classified as Type C.
Project Objective Category
21. The primary project objective category is Public Sector
Modernization (PB).
to replicate such workshops over the coming months in the other selected
districts. Most importantly, the project would promote, through the
Access Fund, the participation of the civil society in monitoring the
progress in judicial reform.
-8-



Contact Point:            Izumi Ohno, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-8015
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending December 6, 1996.
-9-



