Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4256-PE
Project Agreement
(Judicial Reform Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
DEFENSORIA DEL PUEBLO
Dated December 17, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4256-PE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 17, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and DEFENSORIA DEL PUEBLO (DP).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between REPUBLIC OF PERU 
(the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an 
amount equivalent to twenty two million five hundred thousand dollars ($22,500,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition 
that DP agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and DP, 
a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
made available to DP on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS  DP, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) DP declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part 
C.3 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with the 
Operational Manual, the Program, each annual investment program approved by the Bank 
pursuant to paragraph 1 (c) of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement and appropriate 
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
Part C.3 of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and DP shall otherwise agree, DP shall carry out Part C.3 of 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for Part C.3 of the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) DP shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the DP Project Agreement and Part C.3 of the 
Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto,  DP shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Bank and DP, a plan for the future 
operation of 
Part C.3 of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with DP on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) DP shall enter into the DP Agency Agreement; and
(b)
DP shall duly perform all its obligations under the DP Subsidiary 
Agreement and the DP Agency Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, DP 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning, waiving or failing to enforce the DP Subsidiary Agreement or 
the DP Agency Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) DP shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of Part C.3 of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, the DP Subsidiary Agreement and the DP Agency 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
DP shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of Part C.3 of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by DP of its 
obligations under this Agreement, the DP Subsidiary Agreement and the DP Agency 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Page  3
Management and Operations of DP
Section 3.01. DP shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative and financial  practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) DP shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition 
including records and separate accounts for Part C.3 of the Project.
(b)
DP shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied by 
independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: 
(A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such 
year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request; 
and
(iv) 
provide to the Borrower all records and accounts necessary 
to allow the Borrower to perform its obligations punctually 
under Article IV of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
 Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of DP 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify DP thereof.
Section 5.03. All these provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full 
force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
Page  4
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Defensoría del Puebo:
Defensoría del Pueblo
Jirón Ucayali 388
Lima, Perú
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of DP, may be 
taken or executed by the Public Defender or such other person or persons as the Public 
Defender shall designate in writing, and the Public Defender shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Lima, Peru, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Fred Levy
Authorized Representative
DEFENSORIA DEL PUEBLO
By /s/ Jorge Santiestevan de Noriega
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
Page  5
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically-manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent but more than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract procured under international competitive bidding 
or limited international bidding, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  6
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
DP shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the respective Monitoring Indicators, 
the carrying out of Part C.3 of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
provide to the PCU all necessary information with respect to the 
execution of Part C.3 of the Project to allow the Borrower to comply with its 
obligations under paragraphs 1 (b) and (c) of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement;
(c)
participate in the reviews described in paragraph 1 (d) of Schedule 5 to 
the Loan Agreement; and
(d)
promptly take all such action, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be 
necessary for the efficient execution of Part C.3 of the Project or the achievement of 
its objectives if, as a result of any of the reviews referred to in (c) above or 
exchange of views pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement, progress in the 
execution of Part C.3 of the Project or in the achievement of its objectives is not 
satisfactory to the Bank.
