Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                 FILE COPY
Report No. P-3070-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA
FOR A
FELCRA I PROJECT
May 22, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoruation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Ringgit (M$)
US$1.00       =      M$2.15
M$1.00               US$0.46
M$1 million   =      US$465,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 mile
1 meter (m) = 3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq m) = 10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (cu m) = 35.31 cubic feet
= 1.308 cubic yards
1 kilogram (kg) = 2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
BPM    - Bank Pertanian Malaysia
CCL    - Critical Consumption Level
DG     - Director-General
DDG    - Deputy Director-General
FELCRA - Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority
FELDA  - Federal Land Development Authority
FMP    - Fourth Malaysia Plan
MIS    - Management Information System
GOM    - Government of Malaysia
PDED   - Program Development and Evaluation Department
PWD    - Public Works Department
RISDA  - Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority
TSDU   - Training and Staff Development Unit
UNDP   - United Nations Development Programme
GOVERNMENT OF MALAYSIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Government of Malaysia
Beneficiary:       Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation
Authority (FELCRA)
Amount:            $37.0 million equivalent
Terms:             17 years with 4 years grace at 9.6% per annum
Relending Terms:  $26.4 million would be relent to FELCRA repayable in
20 years including 10 years grace without interest.
The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government.
The balance of $10.6 million would be made available
to FELCRA through annual budgetary contributions.
Project            The project would directly increase the incomes of about
Description:    12,000 low-income rural households by financing the fringe
and rehabilitation scheme elements of FELCRA's program for
the Fourth Plan Period, extending to a total of about 84,000
acres. This would cover development of about 50 proposed
fringe schemes, and the rehabilitation of about 40 existing
unassisted land development schemes. The project would also
provide for the construction of two palm oil mills. About
75% of the beneficiaries would be rural households whose
present incomes fall below the poverty line. At full
development, the project would enable these beneficiaries to
more than double their incomes.
In order to carry out this expanded program, it is the
objective of the proposed project to strengthen FELCRA's
capability to plan and implement land development and
rehabilitation projects and, as a consequence, to assist
in the development of alternative approaches to improve-
ment of smallholder agriculture. FELCRA's organization is
being expanded to cater to its enlarged responsibilities
over the Fourth Malaysia Plan Period (1981-85), which will
require an increase of nearly 100% in staffing. In
particular, units for Training and Staff Development, and
Program Development and Evaluation would be established
under the project, supported by advisory inputs. Provi-
sion would also be made for consultant inputs to assist
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
FELCRA in diversification of crops, field management,
management information systems, design of oil mills,
survey methods, and design of alternative development
models. The major implementation risk associated with the
project is that agricultural development could be delayed
due to capacity constraints within FELCRA. The project
emphasizes the strengthening of FELCRA-s organization and
staffing to minimize this risk.
Estimated                                                 Local  Foreign  Total
Cost:                                                   --- (US$ million) ---
Agricultural Field Development
Rubber                               29.1     8.4    37.5
Oil palm                             11.7     3.6    15.3
Infrastructure                         10.2     5.1    15.3
Vehicles & equipment                    0.7     2.8      3.5
Processing facilities                   4.8     4.9      9.7
Training                                1.4     0.6      2.0
Management                             16.8      1.9    18.7
Subtotal                         74.7    27.3   102.0
Physical contingencies                  8.6     3.1    11.7
Expected price contingencies           18.8     6.6    25.4
Total Project Cost /1           102.1    37.0   139.1
Financing
Plan:            Government                            102.1      -     102.1
Bank                                    -      37.0    37.0
Total                           102.1    37.0   139.1
Estimated
Disbursements:  Bank FY              1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Annual              3.0    6.1    9.0    7.7    6.9    4.3
Cumulative          3.0    9.1   18.1   25.8   32.7   37.0
Rate of Return:   18%
Staff Appraisal
Report:          No. 3301b-MA, dated May 1, 1981.
IBRD Map: No. 15400
/1 Including $6.1 million of taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO MALAYSIA
FOR A FELCRA I PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Malaysia for the equivalent of US$37.0 million for a FELCRA I
Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years grace,
with interest at 9.6% p.a. The Government would relend US$26.4 million to
FELCRA without interest for a 20-year term including 10 years grace. The
balance of US$10.6 million would be made available to FELCRA through annual
budgetary contributions.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest economic report, "Malaysia:  New Perspectives on the
Third Malaysia Plan" (No. 1594-MA), is dated October 14, 1977. Since that
report was circulated, a book has been prepared at the request of the
Government, which reviews the overall performance of the Malaysian economy
since 1960, discusses current issues and assesses future prospects.
Entitled "Malaysia: Growth and Equity in a Multiracial Society," the book
was published in July 1980. Detailed data on Malaysia's economy are shown
in Annex I.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia has done well in the past.
The per capita income of US$1,320 in 1979 is among the highest in Southeast
Asia. During the past two decades, the Malaysian economy achieved an
average real growth of GNP of about 7% a year. This sustained high growth
rate is basically a reflection of the country's wealth in natural resources,
especially its ample reserves of cultivable land; an outward-oriented growth
strategy; good, albeit cautious, economic and financial management; and, not
least, stable social and political institutions. Three specific factors
were important: sharp rises in productivity in the rubber sector - rises
which cushioned the effects of steep price declines and helped maintain
the Malaysian share in the world rubber market; a big push for export
diversification through rapid expansion of the production of palm oil and
the extraction of timber; and rapid manufacturing growth, which has averaged
about 13% a year since 1968 and has been increasingly oriented toward exports.
4.        A look beyond the macroeconomic aggregates reveals that Malaysia
has been trying to overcome a serious poverty problem. Since 1960, signi-
ficant improvements have been made in raising production in agriculture,
diversifying output and improving social services. However, the impact of
these improvements on the incomes of the poor has been offset to a
/1 Part I is essentially the same as the corresponding section of the
President's Report No. P-2917-MA, dated March 5, 1981, on the Trans-Perak
Area Development Project, which was approved on March 26, 1981.



significant extent by other factors. Continuing rapid population growth has
substantially reduced the impact of production increases on per capita
incomes. In addition, Malaysia suffered a serious and sustained terms of
trade loss during the 1960s which further reduced average real income growth
during the period. As a result, a serious poverty problem persists: the
Government estimates that almost 40% of the population have incomes
insufficient to provide minimum requirements of food, shelter, clothing and
other basic needs. Further, this problem is complicated by considerable
racial inequalities in income and employment. Malay income on average is
only about 40% the income of Chinese and about two thirds the income of
Indians. Malays still predominate in employment in agriculture and
non-Malays in the industry and services sectors.
5.        Because the problems of poverty and racial inequalities are both
serious and persistent, the Government has given top priority to solving them.
Thus, the twin objectives of the New Economic Policy, introduced by the
Government in 1971, are to eradicate poverty and to reduce the racial
imbalance in income, employment, and the ownership of assets. More
specifically, it is targeted that by 1990 the incidence of poverty will be
reduced by two thirds, that the pattern of employment will reflect the
racial composition of the population, and that the share of bumiputras /1 in
the ownership of the corporate sector will increase from 2% in 1970 to at
least 30%. The New Economic Policy emphasizes the need for rapid growth in
the industrial and services sectors as the principal means by which these
objectives will be attained. The Government-s long-term plan is based on
the requirement that about 2 million, or almost 90%, of the new jobs to be
created during 1975-90 would be in industry and services. This requirement
implies a substantial reduction in the share of agricultural employment. It
also implies a net shift out of agriculture of more than a million jobs from
the number that would be employed if present employment patterns were to
persist.
6.        If the targets of the New Economic Policy are to be reached, the
economy must maintain a long-term GNP growth rate of at least 8% a year.
The growth of the manufacturing sector will have to be even more rapid.
Without the expansion, employment growth of more than 3% a year will not
materialize if rural incomes are to be significantly increased. A more
moderate growth rate would substantially reduce the creation of new employ-
ment in the modern sector and make it more difficult to achieve the
targets for restructuring employment and reducing poverty.
7.        Malaysia-s strong natural resource base together with a favorable
outlook for the prices of her major commodity exports should provide the
economy with sufficient financial resources to achieve rapid growth. Aside
from short term fluctuations, the balance of payments current account should
continue in surplus for the foreseeable future enabling an adequate level of
/1 Bumiputra literally means "son of the soil." The word is used to refer
to Malays and other indigenous groups.



reserves to be maintained together with a moderate level of debt service.
The elasticity of tax revenues should also enable the Government to finance an
expanded development program. Thus the availability of resources, which
has not been a serious problem in the past, is expected to be even less of a
constraint in the future. Compared with most other developing countries,
Malaysia is fortunate in this respect.
8.        Although Malaysia appears to have the financial capacity to achieve
rapid growth, the economy will no longer be able to rely so heavily on rapid
growth of primary production. While Malaysia is rich in natural resources,
which will provide a reliable base for the expansion of the economy, the
growth rates of the production of such commodities as rubber, palm oil,
petroleum and forest products are all likely to be lower than in the past.
With growth decelerating in the resource sectors, rapid industrial growth
will increasingly become essential to successful economic performance. This
imperative arises not only from the viewpoint of production and the creation
of real incomes but also from the viewpoint of employment and its racial
restructuring.
9.        In addition to rapid industrial growth, successful achievement of
the targets of the New Economic Policy will require a concerted effort to
accelerate the pace of rural development. Most of the poor live in rural
areas. Although rapid growth of industrial employment can ease the problem
of rural poverty by absorbing migrants from rural areas, poverty will
continue to be a largely rural phenomenon. Thus, even if there is rapid
sustained growth of employment in industry and services, the projections of
the Third Malaysia Plan indicate that more than three quarters of Malaysia's
poor will be in rural areas in 1990. An expansion of income and employment
opportunities for rural Malaysians is of high priority. Furthermore, the
expected decline in the growth rates of the production of rubber and palm oil
makes expansion of government programs even more necessary, for example,
accelerating land development programs, increasing settler participation in
those programs, expanding programs of replanting for rubber smallholders,
expanding extension and credit for rice farmers, intensifying efforts to
promote intercropping by coconut smallholders and improving the access of
poor families to such basic services as education, housing, electricity and
water supply - all of which deserve priority because of the substantial
impact they can have in reducing poverty. The greater availability of
public resources will enable the Government to undertake that expansion.
But the main constraint to mounting a more effective attack on rural poverty
appears to be the capacity of the public sector to identify and prepare
projects that can affect large numbers of rural poor.
10.       The Government does not have the direct control over private
investment that it has over public investment, but it can play a strong role
in providing a policy framework conducive to vigorous growth in the private
sector. Because the more obvious areas of import substitution have been
exhausted, sustained rapid growth in manufacturing will have to rely
increasingly on export expansion. Policies will therefore have to ensure a



- 4 -
favorable export environment. With regard to institutional factors, the
Government has already acted to alleviate fears in the private community
about the Industrial Coordination Act and the Petroleum Development Act.
The Government has also stressed that it will implement the Industrial
Coordination Act in a flexible and pragmatic manner so as to encourage
investment and growth. Because much of the concern in the private sector
has been over how that Act will be implemented, flexible implementation by
the Government should help to ease the concern in the business community.
11.       In summary, the prospects appear to be good for achieving rapid
growth and for ameliorating the twin problems of poverty and racial im-
balances. Certainly there should be no serious constraints imposed by the
availability of resources. To achieve the targets of the New Economic
Policy will nevertheless require vigorous action by the Government along a
number of fronts. The policy framework will have to be readjusted to ensure
sustained growth of the industrial sector. A pragmatic attitude will be
needed in interpreting and implementing the quantitative restructuring
targets to ensure that sight is not lost of the overall goal of improving
the racial balance. Growth in the supply of technically trained manpower
will require close scrutiny to ensure that it does not constrain the
restructuring potential made possible by rapid economic growth. Finally,
larger and more effective programs to reduce poverty by direct action will
require a concerted effort to expand the capacity of the public sector to
prepare and implement such programs.
12.       Assuming a continuing 7-8% rate of economic growth during the
1980s, Malaysia's balance of payments is projected to remain in modest
surplus. The cumulative current account surplus is projected to average
about 1.0% of GDP during the 1980s. Net direct investment medium- and
long-term loans equivalent to about 4.0% of GDP would be required to
maintain a reasonable level of reserves and to offset short-term and other
outflows. At present about 15% of public debt outstanding and disbursed is
from the World Bank; this percentage may increase somewhat during the early
1980s. Debt service is expected to be maintained at a level equivalent to
about 4% of exports. The Bank's share of debt service is currently about
10% and may increase to about 20% by the end of the decade.
13.       In general, over the next few years, it is likely that the
Government will need less external capital than previously forecast, largely
because of strong commodity prices and oil earnings. At the same time,
Malaysia has a serious income distribution and poverty problem. The
country needs technical assistance and expertise to help develop poverty
alleviation programs and to assist in designing and packaging projects that
reach out directly to low-income families. The Malaysians believe strongly
that project borrowing, particularly from development institutions such as
the World Bank, is necessary to assist them to mount an effective attack on
poverty. Bank lending is therefore focused on strengthening government
efforts to reduce poverty directly.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
14.       The Bank has made 51 loans to Malaysia, totalling $1,247.5 million
for projects in agriculture, education, population, power, water supply,
sewerage, telecommunications, ports, railways, roads, and urban transport.
Although in a number of cases disbursements have been slower than expected,
the execution of Bank projects in Malaysia has generally been satisfactory.
As of March 31, 1981, the effective loans to Malaysia held by the Bank
amounted to $948.33 million. Twenty-two loans have been fully disbursed.
Annex II contains a summary of Bank Loans and IFC investments, as well as
notes on the execution of current projects under implementation.
15.       Since Malaysia is currently a resource-surplus country, the Bank no
longer provides lending to the traditional infrastructure projects. The
Bank's present lending strategy in Malaysia is to support the Government's
programs to combat the deep-rooted problem of poverty in the country,
particularly in the rural areas. The thrust of this strategy is not simply
to provide financial support to poverty alleviation projects but to develop
an institutional and policy framework to enable the Malaysians eventually to
design and implement antipoverty programs independently. With this in mind,
the Bank has proposed to undertake projects with relevant institutions, such
as the Agricultural Credit Bank (BPM), the Federal Land Consolidation and
Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA), the Rubber Industry Smallholders
Development Authority (RISDA), and area and state development agencies in
the poorer states in Malaysia, which should broaden their experience in the
designing of projects and serve as a basis for building managerial and
technical skills within these institutions. Technical assistance of this
nature with a financial underpinning is considered to be the most effective
way in which the Bank can best support Malaysian development at present.
16.       Malaysia's own commitment to assist its low-income groups has
strengthened significantly in the past few years. The Bank has been heavily
involved in helping Malaysia identify and prepare projects geared toward the
rural poor. Prior to 1975, this was done primarily through expansion of
irrigation and land development as means of expanding output, raising incomes
and creating employment opportunities. To reach more rural households,
greater emphasis has since been given to programs designed to raise produc-
tivity in existing smallholder areas. The number of rural development
projects recently financed and in the current pipeline is impressive. Ten
rural development projects were financed in the last three years, which
include improvement of irrigation and drainage systems, rehabilitation of
tree crops, national extension and research. At least 11 additional rural
development projects have been identified for possible Bank support in the
next few years. The proposed project focuses on improving the incomes of the
rural households through financing the fringe and rehabilitation scheme
elements of FELCRA's program for the Fourth Malaysia Plan.



- 6
17.       The Government s capability to develop such projects, however,
remains weak, largely because of a shortage of trained manpower. With the
help of the UNDP-financed and Bank-executed State and Rural Development
Project, which provides technical assistance to selected federal and state
agencies, the Bank is helping the Government to develop further its programs
and projects for reducing poverty.
18.       As part of its lending strategy, the Bank proposes to continue its
involvement in the education sector in Malaysia by concentrating more heavily
on technical and skill training. It is also seeking new initiatives in
providing support to the manufacturing sector in Malaysia, especially in
promoting the growth of small-scale industries, in order to enable the
Government to realize its growth, employment and restructuring objectives.
Assistance to infrastructure in the future will be selective, concentrating
on providing access to rural areas and rural electrification.
19.       IFC has made six investments in Malaysia totalling $8.69 million.
The total investments held by IFC as of March 31, 1981 amounted to $1.14 mil-
lion (Annex II).
III. SECTORAL CONTEXT
Background
20.       Malaysian agriculture has a strong comparative advantage in tropical
tree crops, which explains the dominance of rubber, coconut and oil palm.
Altogether, 8 million acres have been brought under cultivation in Peninsular
Malaysia, of which almost 6 million acres are devoted to rubber and oil palm.
Nearly two thirds of the rubber acreage is in smallholdings. The only other
major crop is padi, with one million acres. Other crops (all below 100,000
acres each) are pineapple, cocoa, cassava, sugarcane, tobacco, coffee and
groundnuts.
21.       Over the past decade and a half, physical output in the sector has
grown strongly, but because of adverse terms of trade, this growth has not
been matched by growth in the value of output. Rubber output has expanded by
100% and oil palm by 300%.  In addition, rice output has expanded by 90% due
largely to improved irrigation and double cropping; on average, rice imports
have fallen to only about 10% of annual consumption. The average annual
growth of 4.5% since 1970 for the sector in real terms has been high by
international standards. However, this compares with a real growth rate of
almost 8% for the economy as a whole. The sector will continue its gradual
decline in relative importance as industrialization proceeds. For the
present, however, it remains extremely important in the overall economy,
providing about 25% of GDP, 44% of employment, and 40% of export earnings in
1978. However, even though agriculture remains extremely important in the
overall Malaysian economy, its dualistic development has resulted in almost
50% of Malaysia-s agricultural households (25% of the national population)
living in absolute poverty.



- 7 -
Objectives
22.       The main objectives of the Government's agricultural policy are: (a)
to increase incomes in agriculture as rapidly as possible; (b) to alleviate
rural poverty and to redress interregional and intergroup income disparities;
(c) to maintain a reasonable relationship between agricultural incomes and
incomes earned in other sectors; and (d) to generate employment opportunities
for new entrants to the rural labor force.
Strategies
23.       The Government's efforts to pursue these objectives involve the fol-
lowing five major strategies: (a) the absorption of surplus and low produc-
tivity labor from agriculture into more productive jobs in the industrial and
service sectors; to this end, the Government is pursuing a policy of rapid
economic growth and investment in human resources particularly within rural
areas; (b) new land development in order to generate additional employment
within agriculture at adequate income levels; (c) increased emphasis on
raising productivity and incomes in existing traditional smallholder agri-
culture; (d) increasing transfer payments to rural people if it is not
feasible to move them out of agriculture, or increase their incomes from agri-
culture; and (e) increasing export earnings, especially from tree crops, to
finance the industrial and other investments needed to achieve rapid economic
growth.
24.       Under the Fourth Malaysia Plan (FMP), 1981-85, the Government
proposes to increase the relative emphasis of its agricultural and land
development programs on existing smallholder agriculture. It proposes to
expand the Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA)
to enable it to undertake a leading role in this effort, and in particular
wishes FELCRA to develop viable approaches to the problems of inadequate
holding size and fragmentation.
Land Development
25.       Following independence, major emphasis of the Government's land
policy was placed on achieving a rapid rate of land development, primarily to
create employment and generate economic growth, and secondarily to settle and
develop major areas suitable for agriculture. Its program, based primarily
on planting of rubber and oil palm, has not only contributed to raising
production and income of the settlers recruited from among the rural poor,
but also to reducing the pressure of population on existing agricultural land.
The Bank provided extensive assistance to the Federal Land Development
Authority (FELDA), which has undertaken nearly 50% of the land development
over the past two decades, and is now a mature organization capable of
managing its programs independently.



-8-
FELCRA
26.       Parallel with the establishment of FELDA in the early 1960s, more
than 500,000 acres of land were alienated by states to groups of individuals,
whose own holdings were too small to provide an adequate income.  Typically
this land was in small blocks close to existing areas of settlement, and about
3-8 acres were provided to each participant. Plot development was largely
by self-help, and many participants had inadequate capital or labor resources
to effectively develop their plots. In 1966 a Working Committee was
established to prepare legislation for the creation of an autonomous agency
to rehabilitate and develop areas such as unsuccessful block alienation
schemes, fragmented land holdings, or blocks of land near to areas where
uneconomic holdings were concentrated. As originally conceived, land
consolidation was to be one of the major goals of the proposed new authority.
However, the Attorney-General subsequently ruled that such powers might
contravene the spirit of the constitution, and no provision was made for
them in the legislation which established FELCRA. FELCRA has, therefore,
concentrated its efforts on rehabilitation of existing land schemes and
small-scale land development.
27.       With the success of the new land development program and the expan-
sion of employment opportunities outside agriculture, emphasis on problems of
holding size in existing smallholder areas was reduced during the early 1970s.
At present the population primarily dependent upon agriculture is increasing
at less than 1% per year, and probably falling in many traditional smallholder
areas. This should provide scope for enlarging the holdings of the remaining
smallholders.
28.       There is, however, increasing evidence that this adjustment process
is not working well, and there are frequent reports that land abandonment
or dereliction is occurring. The reasons for this are many and varied and,
in addition to insufficient economic incentives, include traditional attitudes
to land ownership (a desire to hold land even when not utilizing it), Islamic
inheritance laws leading to multiple ownership, lack of capital by small-
holders with which to improve landed assets or to purchase additional land,
and an overly complex land administration system and bottlenecks within it,
including restrictions on transfer of some lands.
29.       As a result many households, who do not have easy access to the new
employment opportunities, or who for reasons including age are not willing to
migrate, are in danger of slipping into a more disadvantageous position vis-
a-vis the rest of society. Almost all these households, numbering perhaps
300,000, are Malay and live in the 5,000 villages identified by the Government
as having inadequate social and physical infrastructure. The opportunities
for further land development to assist these disadvantaged households are
diminishing. In Peninsular Malaysia, although 2-3 million acres potentially
suitable for agriculture may remain undeveloped, this land is mainly in
smaller blocks. State governments, which under the constitution control
land alienation, are becoming increasingly reluctant to allow major
concessions for further land development by a federal agency.



- 9 -
30.       The Government is vigorously pursuing programs to improve living
conditions in these areas and services to agriculture, to promote
diversification and upgrade perennial crops through the Ministry of
Agriculture and agencies such as the Rubber Industry Smallholders Development
Authority (RISDA). However, it is recognized that, for the reasons noted
above, additional means need to be developed to facilitate structural
adjustment, if technical improvements are to result in alleviation of poverty
and improved longer-term prospects for the disadvantaged rural communities.
It is in this area that FELCRA is expected to play a major role.
31.       FELCRA-s functions are described in its mandate (FELCRA Act of 1966,
as amended) as:
(a) to rehabilitate or develop state land schemes either on its own
initiative and with the approval of the appropriate state
authority, or at the request of the latter; and
(b) to rehabilitate or develop alienated lands, at the request of the
owner and on agreed terms.
32.       Up to and including its 1980 program, FELCRA will have initiated
development of 163,000 acres. Its principal programs have been:
(a) Rehabilitation Schemes (40,000 acres). In most instances these
involve rehabilitation of low-cost land schemes, in which state
governments make blocks of land available to groups of individ-
uals. Typically each participant obtains a 6-8 acre plot for
rubber, but little or no financial or technical assistance is
provided. When FELCRA is called in, belatedly, to rehabilitate
these state schemes, it typically has to reclear and replant the
area. FELCRA normally manages the scheme as a group operation and
participants have priority in obtaining employment on the scheme
in addition to receiving dividends based on their share of
ownership.
(b) Fringe Schemes (73,000 acres). These are aimed at increasing the
basic land resource from which a village derives income and to
supplement the incomes of the participants. A block of land, nor-
mally of 500-1,000 acres, and preferably located within about 3
miles of one or more low-income villages, is opened up. Partici-
pants are selected by the state governments on the basis of insuf-
ficiency of their existing land resources, family status, age of
householder, etc. The scheme is generally farmed as a group
operation under FELCRA management as above./l
/1 FELCRA is planning to open up 4 schemes of this type during the Fourth
Plan period for Orang Asli (indigenous tribal groups, generally living
in reserved areas and in a semi-subsistence fashion).



- 10 -
(c) Youth Schemes (49,000 acres). Settlement schemes catering
exclusively to young, single persons (generally male). No new
youth schemes have been initiated since 1978 and none are planned.
33.       Based on an existing group of fringe/rehabilitation schemes in
Perak, FELCRA is undertaking land development of a large contiguous area
including development of settlements. This regional development is the
principal element of the Trans-Perak Project, to be funded separately by the
Bank.
34.        Because of the lack of provision in its mandate, FELCRA has not
undertaken formal consolidation programs. However, it is currently initiating
a series of pilot in situ projects which do address this problem. It is
hoped that these will provide a model which can be applied to a significant
proportion of traditional village agriculture. Under these projects,
existing holdings for perennial and mixed crops are pooled, and sufficient
additional nearby undeveloped land is cleared and planted to perennial crops
to provide a total of at least six acres per household.  In addition to
standard perennial crops of oil palm and rubber, a portion of the area is
being put under crops yielding a quicker income, e.g., tobacco, pepper,
cloves, groundnuts, cocoa, and support is given to traditional food crop
production.
35.       It is anticipated that FELCRA's land development program in the
FMP period (1981-85) will amount to about 140,000 acres. Government and
FELCRA have agreed on a basic program of about 123,500 acres, comprising
fringe schemes (49,000 acres), rehabilitation (35,000 acres), the
Trans-Perak Project (32,000 acres) and 7,500 acres of other schemes
including 6 in situ pilot projects. In addition to this program it is
anticipated that FELCRA will also develop a further 17,000 acres towards the
end of the FMP period, principally in border areas and possible larger-scale
replication of the in situ concept.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The project was prepared by FELCRA, assisted by Bank preparation
missions and was appraised in September 1980. A Staff Appraisal Report
entitled "FELCRA I Project" (No. 3301b-MA dated May 1, 1981) is being
distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex
III. Negotiations were held in Washington from April 23 to April 27, 1981,
with the Malaysian delegation led by Tunku Dato' Abdul Malek b. Tunku Kassim,
Under Secretary, Finance Division, Treasury.
Project Objectives
37.        The project would directly increase the incomes of about 12,000
low-income rural households through land rehabilitation and development
schemes. In order to carry out this program, the objective of the proposed



- 11 -
project is to strengthen FELCRA's capability to plan and implement
smallholder improvement projects. As a consequence, it would assist in the
development of alternative approaches to improvement of smallholder
agriculture, and sharpen the focus of FELCRA's program in this area.
Detailed Features of the Project
38.       The main features of the project are:
(a)  financing of the fringe and rehabilitation scheme elements in
Peninsular Malaysia of FELCRA's Program in the FMP, covering
development of about 50 proposed fringe schemes, and the
rehabilitation of about 40 existing unassisted land development
schemes, extending to a total of about 84,000 acres and including:
(i)  development of about 64,000 acres for rubber and 20,000 acres
for oil palm;
(ii)  construction of housing for staff and provision of basic
infrastructure including about 112 miles of all-weather
access roads;
(iii) procurement of vehicles and equipment for scheme development
and maintenance; and
(iv)  construction of two palm oil mills with a combined capacity
of about 80 tons ffb/hr;
(b) strengthening of FELCRA's capability to implement this program
through:
(i)  rationalization of FELCRA's organization, with decentralization
of operational activities and streamlining of head office
structure;
(ii)  establishment of a Training and Staff Development Unit and
development and implementation of a training program for all
levels of staff;
(iii) establishment of a Program Development and Evaluation
Department;
(iv)  introduction of a computerized management information
system; and
(v)  provision of consultancy services for detailed design of
project processing facilities, and technical assistance for
the training and evaluation units, implementation of a
proposed management information and accounting system,
diversification activities, evaluation of existing projects,
preparation of future projects, and related studies.



- 12 -
Project Costs and Financing
39.       Total project costs (inclusive of $6.1 million of taxes and duties)
are estimated at $139.1 million, of which $37 million or 27% represent foreign
exchange. Physical contingencies of 10% on agricultural development, vehicles
and equipment, palm oil mill construction, management and consultancies, and
20% for civil works, including site works and access roads for palm oil
mills, have been added to base costs. Price increases, incorporating both
local and foreign elements, were assumed at 9% for 1981, 8.5% for 1982, and
7.5% in 1983-85. Expected price increases amount to 21% of base costs plus
physical contingencies. The proposed Bank loan of $37.0 million would
finance the full foreign exchange cost of the project, equivalent to 28% of
project costs exclusive of taxes and duties.
40.       About $26.4 million of the Bank loan would be relent to FELCRA for
financing of land development and processing facilities, on which Govern-
ment would bear the foreign exchange risk and would provide $58.2 million of
its own funds in the form of loans to support land development and process-
ing facilities. The Government would also provide $43.9 million of its own
funds and $10.6 million of the Bank loan, through annual budgetary contri-
butions, for provision of physical and social infrastructure, and project
management.
Relending Terms
41.       The Government, in the context of its plans for the next five-year
development period, has established a concessionary lending policy for the
public agencies involved. Specifically, as of January 1, 1981, the policy
is to make available central government funds to public agencies for poverty
eradication efforts without interest charges. A charge of 2-4% per annum
will be made when the funds are to be used for activities to accelerate the
development of indigenous 24alaysians, and market rates charged for commer-
cial endeavors. Under the proposed project, funds for scheme development
would be provided to FELCRA interest free, and be repayable over 10 years,
following a grace period of 10 years for rubber and 8 years for oil palm.
This is acceptable since the project has a strong anti-poverty bias, and the
risk of misallocation of resources is minimal since all developmental
activities would be carried out by FELCRA and no funds would be passed
directly to participants. The level of interest rate subsidy is mitigated
by the low rate of inflation in Malaysia, which has averaged below 5% over
the past three years, and is expected to remain near that level. Assurances
were obtained that the terms and conditions for provision of funds to FELCRA
would be satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.01(b) of the Loan Agreement).
Cost Recovery
42.       Government's total commitment to the schemes initially funded
under the project over their entire 30-year life would be about $270 million.
About $112 million would be in the form of loans to FELCRA for field
development and processing facilities, $15 million in the form of economic



- 13 -
and social infrastructure, and $143 million in grants to cover FELCRA's
management costs. In addition to full cost recovery on the operation of palm
oil mills and repayment of the FELCRA loans, participants would be required
to pay land premium and quit rent (combined in a consolidated annual charge
amounting to $7 per acre per year). Government would also receive substan-
tial revenues (averaging $23 million per annum at full development) from
export taxes on rubber and palm oil and kernels.
43.       Based on present values of project costs, fees, and taxes dis-
counted at 10%, the total project cost recovery index would be 80%. This
level of cost recovery is high in the context of the relatively low level of
incomes of the participants. At the same time, it should be noted that the
beneficiaries assume little of the risk attached to the project; the schemes
would be managed by FELCRA; and the beneficiaries will not be required to
provide any capital.
Technical Assistance
44.       The assistance in planning, training, development of management
information systems, supervision of oil mill design, diversification activi-
ties, land tenure, and survey methods are estimated to require about 155
man-months of professional expertise at a total cost of about $1.1 million.
The average man-month cost (based on the individuals' fees, travel and
local allowances) is expected to be about $7,200. The average local man-
month cost is $5,300 (47 man-months) and the average international man-month
cost is $8,000 (108 man-months). Engineering design and construction super-
vision for the palm oil mills would be carried out by domestic consultants,
who have substantial experience in this work. The lump sum contract cost,
which is estimated to be $300,000, is based on 3% of the estimated construc-
tion cost. Implementation of the computerized management information system
would also be carried out under a lump sum contract by local consultants,
estimated at $130,000, based on an estimated requirement of 36 man-months of
professional input at $3,600 per man-month. The project would also provide
$600,000 to finance field surveys and consultancy services for scheme
evaluation and project preparation.
Procurement
45.       Vehicles and equipment amounting to about $4.0 million would be
procured under international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. A 15% preference margin, or the prevailing customs duty if lower,
would be extended to local manufacturers of these items. Small items and
urgent requirements not exceeding $800,000 in aggregate and materials for
agricultural development ($4.8 million) would be procured by local
competitive bidding in accordance with normal government procedures which
are satisfactory. There are numerous suppliers, foreign firms are well
represented and competition is adequate. Construction of oil palm mills
($12.5 million) would be open to international competitive bidding. Land



- 14 -
development ($57 million) and other civil works ($19 million) would be
relatively small and scattered for most of the subprojects. Steps have been
taken in recent years to strengthen local land development and civil works
contractors; there is adequate competition and foreign firms can partici-
pate. Therefore, competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures,
involving no domestic or other preferences, would be appropriate for this
work.
Disbursement
46.       Disbursements for vehicles and equipment would be at the rate of
100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) or
60% of imported items procured locally. For land clearance, planting and
initial maintenance, disbursement would be at the rate of 50% of contractual
expenditure. For construction of access roads, buildings and palm oil mills
the disbursement would be at 35% of contractual expenditure. Disbursement
for technical assistance and consultant-s services would be at 80% of total
expenditure. To allow key project staff, including consultants for design
of palm oil mills and implementation of the management information system to
be recruited immediately, and project activities to be undertaken as planned
for the 1981 planting program, retroactive financing of $3.0 million from
October 1, 1980 is proposed (Schedule 1, paragraph 4 of the Loan Agreement).
It is expected that disbursements would be completed by December 31, 1986,
approximately 12 months after the end of the project period.
Project Organization and Management
47.       Organization.  Overall responsibility for implementing the project
would rest with FELCRA. Since the project would represent a major portion of
FELCRA's land development program for the 1981-85 period the Director-General
of FELCRA would be responsible for day-to-day implementation of the project
and no specific institutional unit would be established for this purpose.
FELCRA would be responsible for all land development activities, construction
of scheme access roads and buildings, and construction of palm oil mills.
Water and electricity would be supplied direct from public main supply or, if
unavailable, from local sources constructed by FELCRA. FELCRA would continue
its present method of scheme operation, with each scheme being operated as a
group farm with hired labor. Scheme participants would be given job
preference and appropriate training. Participants would receive dividends
when a profit was generated by the scheme.
48.       Scheme Selection.  Inclusion of a scheme within FELCRA's program
follows agreement with the relevant state government. FELCRA prepares a brief
feasibility report for each scheme which confirms the availability of the land
proposed, its suitability for cropping based on a report prepared by the
Department of Agriculture, estimates its development costs and the expected
cash flow of the scheme. This forms the basis for a submission to Treasury
for loan funds. Reports have been prepared for the 11 schemes on which



- 15 -
planting is scheduled to take place in 1981. Under the project the existing
planning staff would be strengthened to enable FELCRA to improve the quality
and scope of these reports. Data on the underlying physical characteristics
of the schemes would be strengthened and the analysis expanded to include
the economic conditions in the adjacent area, other schemes or projects
being undertaken, characteristics of the local population, potential sources
of participants and, for rehabilitation schemes, the history of the scheme.
FELCRA would furnish to the Bank for prior review feasibility reports covering
schemes of 1,500 acres and over (amounting to 35% of the area to be developed
under the project), and all schemes under the project would yield an economic
rate of return of 10% or more (Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement).
49.        Participant Selection.  The principal beneficiaries of the schemes
to be developed would be low-income rural households. Participants for new
fringe schemes are selected by individual state governments. The broad
criteria used in selection are: Malaysian citizen, 21 to 50 years of
age, good health, married with children, living within 10 miles of the
scheme, landless or with an uneconomic size holding, and having agricultural
experience. As a part of the program of review and evaluation of FELCRA-s
land development program, the current scoring and weighting system would be
reviewed by FELCRA in consultation with the states in order to ascertain the
possibility of improving the selection of disadvantaged households and
areas, and of increasing the potential for creation of viable economic
activities based on the scheme. FELCRA would carry out this study by
June 30, 1982 and promptly furnish a report detailing proposals for
modifying such criteria to Government and the Bank for their agreement
(Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement).
FELCRA Operations
50.       Organization.  FELCRA's expected Fourth Plan land development
program of about 140,000 acres will represent an increase of 85% in the area
under its management. A doubling of staff to about 3,000 persons would be
required over this period to manage this program and to overcome existing
areas of weakness in the Agency's performance. FELCRA's current senior
management is lean and stretched thin, and its present organization
structure results in an uneven distribution of responsibilities at senior
level. There is a single Deputy Director General (DDG), responsible for
operations, to whom three headquarters departments (one headed by a Director)
and 10 state offices report. Supporting services are divided into the
Departments of Finance and Administration, each headed by a Director. Under
the project the organizational structure would be rationalized with the
creation of a second DDG to be appointed by June 30, 1983 (Section 3.04 of
the Project Agreement). Separate Operations and Administration Divisions
would be created, each headed by a DDG, and containing a total of eight
departments, each headed by a Director. A separate Marketing and Processing
staff, under a qualified Director reporting to the DG, would be created to
handle these aspects of FELCRA-s operation.



- 16 -
51.       Four Regional Offices would be established in Peninsular Malaysia,
each headed by a director-level Regional Controller to be appointed by
December 31, 1982 (Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement). Technical
staff, i.e., engineers and agricultural officers, would be decentralized to
this level to provide a more effective and coordinated back-up to scheme
level staff. The 10 state-level offices would be retained, but would report
to the Regional Controllers. This decentralization is reflected in the
proposed increase of 185% in staff at regional/state level, compared to 73%
at headquarters and 89% at scheme level. FELCRA would by Mfarch 31, 1982,
submit a plan acceptable to the Government and the Bank for strengthening
and expansion of its organizational structure, which would incorporate the
above proposals and be implemented in consultation with the Government and
the Bank (Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement).
52.       Training.  The Agency urgently requires an overall training and
staff development program to meet the existing backlog in staff training,
the needs of expanding personnel and increasing field activity. To provide
the quality of program needed FELCRA would establish a Training and Staff
Development Unit (TSDU). To support the training program, FELCRA would
appoint a Training and Staff Development Adviser to be employed by December
31, 1981 (Section 3.05 of the Project Agreement). The TSDU would:
(a)  systematically define the training needs of both staff and
settlers;
(b)  design an overall training and staff development program to meet
those training needs;
(c)  identify training resource persons and institutions within
Malaysia and elsewhere which can assist with the program; and
(d)  design and implement a system of training evaluation.
In particular the TSDU would focus on the needs of FELCRA settlers and would
assist the Settler Development Department by providing a wide range of
training opportunities and instructional and educational support.
53.       Evaluation.  The limited capacity of the existing Budget and
Planning staff restricts FELCRA's ability to carry out scheme planning,
to undertake evaluation or other studies, or to provide data for long-term
planning or program development. Under the project, the existing planning
staff would be expanded into a Program Development and Evaluation Department
(PDED) which would be assisted by a Senior Planning Adviser to be employed
by December 31, 1981 (Section 3.05 of the Project Agreement). The Director
of the Program Development and Evaluation Department would be appointed by
December 31, 1982 (Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement). A Feasibility
Studies Section would be responsible for scheme feasibility reports (para.
48). An Evaluation and Special Studies Section would be created in this



- 17 -
Department, to be responsible for a range of special studies.  These would
include an analysis of settler selection criteria (para. 49) and a detailed
evaluation of a sample of ongoing producing schemes. The latter would focus
both on the physical progress, and on the economic and social development of
the scheme, i.e., the extent to which the scheme and participants were
developing into a viable social and management unit. This would provide the
basis for subsequent routine evaluation of all schemes at full production.
In addition, a continuing evaluation of a small sample of schemes included
in the project would also be undertaken.  These would begin before work
started on the scheme, and continue until full production was reached.
54.       The Evaluation and Special Studies Section would also be responsible
for undertaking or supervising studies and the preparation of future projects,
with emphasis on the development of disadvantaged agricultural areas.
Activities would include pilot projects to tackle land related problems,
including possible links to land settlement schemes or other means of overcom-
ing the problems of smallholding size, and rehabilitation of underutilized
land, e.g., various forms of group farms.  Funds for specialist consultancy
services to support these special studies and project preparation would be
provided under the project (para. 44).
55.       Management Information System.  Although FELCRA's financial records
are comprehensive and adequate, they do not effectively serve the Agency's
expanding management information needs. A consultant study, just completed,
recommended the introduction of a computerized MIS system which would
incorporate financial as well as physical controls.  The project would provide
funds to engage a management consultant to review these proposals and,
with appropriate modification, establish and operate a computerized system
and train FELCRA staff in its operation.  In addition, because FELCRA staff
do not have experience in computer applications, a specialist computer
management consultant would be engaged for a total of about five months to
assess tender proposals for this work, and supervise implementation of the
proposed system.
Accounts and Audit
56.       FELCRA's existing account format requires improvement to provide an
adequate description of the status and results of FELCRA's operations.  An
assurance was obtained that FELCRA would prepare by June 30, 1982 proposals
for implementation of a system of financial reporting acceptable to the
Government and the Bank and by December 31, 1982, prepare a five-year
financial projection detailing incomes, expenditures and financial position
(Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement). FELCRA's accounts would be audited
by an independent auditor acceptable to Government and the Bank (Section
4.03 of the Project Agreement).



- 18 -
Benefits and Justification
57.       The Malaysian economy is expected to maintain a high rate of growth,
and as a result there will be a continued relative movement from agriculture
into other sectors.  The objective of this project is not to slow down this
structural transformation of the economy, but to provide assistance and
improved prospects to groups who have least opportunity to make the transi-
tion. Incomes of those benefitting from the project would therefore, in
general, continue to be relatively low. A major focus of the studies to be
undertaken during the project would be to devise means of broadening the
impact of FELCRA-s program. Given FELCRA-s overall capacity constraints, the
other objective of these studies would be to find means of creating viable
units which would have resources and flexibility to manage their affairs
independently in the future.
58.       The project would develop about 64,000 acres for rubber and 20,000
acres for oil palm in approximately 90 small land development and rehabilita-
tion areas. The average development cost of these schemes per participant
household is $13,000 compared to about $24,000 (in 1981 prices) on larger
settlement-based schemes in Malaysia. The difference reflects a smaller area
of land per participant in this project and the lack of provision of housing
and supporting infrastructure for participants.  The principal beneficiaries
would be approximately 12,000 scheme participants and their families drawn
from low-income rural areas who would obtain income in the form of wages for
work performed and as dividends. The project would also generate 13,000
man-years of employment per year at full development.  Production of rubber
and oil palm would result in foreign exchange earnings of about $60 million
per year at full development.
59.       The incomes generated by the project would be shared by the scheme
participants and other workers (nonparticipants). Based on FELCRA's expe-
rience, about 40% of the field work on the schemes would be undertaken by
nonparticipants. Overall, 75% of the beneficiaries (both participants and
nonparticipants) would be households currently in poverty, i.e., with per
capita income below $320. These households would receive three quarters of
the additional income generated by the project. At full development, incomes
of participant households are expected to rise to about $600 per capita, which
would still be below the estimated national critical consumption level (CCL)
($790 per capita) at that time.
60.       The economic rate of return is estimated to be 17% for the land
development component, the cost of which is $94 million, with returns on
individual sub-components ranging from 15% for rehabilitation schemes growing
rubber to 22% for fringe schemes growing oil palm; and 24% for the processing
facilities, the cost of which is $14 million. The average economic rate of
return on these components, which account for 97% of project cost, is 18%.
In addition the project is expected to result in a strengthening of FELCRA-s
capacity to plan and implement smallholder improvement projects, and to



- 19 -
improvements in the design of such projects. The economic analysis was
based on a shadow price for field labor of 70% of its market wage. Given
the overall growth rate of the Malaysian economy it is possible that local
labor market conditions will tighten. As one variant of the economic
analysis the economic wage was assumed to increase steadily as a proportion
of the financial wage to reach equality in 1990. This reduced the overall
rate of return to land development to 16%.
61.       There are no major risks associated with the project.  Rubber and
oil palm production technology is well-known in Malaysia and market
prospects for rubber and oil palm are favorable. A reduction of 10% in
market prices would reduce the rate of return for the project from 18% to
16%. The additional production from the project would itself have an
insignificant impact on market prices. The major implementation risk
associated with the project is that of delayed agricultural development
because of staffing constraints and capability within FELCRA, but this would
not have a substantial impact on the rate of return. A delay of one year in
the agricultural development of the project would only reduce the rate of
return to 16%. The project places major emphasis on strengthening FELCRA's
organization, staffing and training to avoid such delays.
Environmental Effects
62.       Land development would be carried out within the guidelines of
the Malaysian Conservation Act, which provides adequate safeguards against
erosion and water course pollution. No loss of habitat critical to
endangered species is expected. Palm oil mills would be located away from
population centers in order to minimize the nuisance of smoke and odors.
Mill effluent would be treated by means of a ponding system to meet the
standards set by the Division of Environment, under the Ministry of Science,
Technology and Environment.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMIENT AND AUTHORITY
63.       The Loan Agreement between Malaysia and the Bank, the Project
Agreement between FELCRA and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
64.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By: Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 22, 1981



- 21 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
MALAYSIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAYSIA                             RFFERENCE CPOUPS (WUIFrPFD AVEPCFH
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                 - PEST  RECENT FSIIATE)-
TOTAL             329.8
AGRICULTURAL       65.1                                   MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOHF             IIIDDIF  IrCOpMr
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b           ASIA A PACIFIC    LATIN AMPEICA 6 CAPTIRFAF
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    250.0        470.0    1320.0                  1114.7                    1562.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        242.0        469.0      716.0                  842.4                    1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
FOPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)         8.0         10.7       13.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 25.2            27.0       28.8                   39. 1                     63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           20.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                             30.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          24.0         32.0       40.0                  376.1                      2P. I
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    152.0           185.0      204.0                2350.4                       P1. 7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            45. 1        45.4       42.2                   40.4                      41.4
15-64 YRS.                            51.3         51.5       54.4                   56.2                      sI.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      3.6          3. 1       3.4                    3.4                       3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.5          2.9        2.7                    2.4                       2.7
URBAN                                 5.5          3.6        3.6                    4.1                       4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        39. 1        32.6       29.0                   28. 7                     34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         9. 1         6.8        6. 0                   7. 9                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..           ..        1.9                    1. Q                      2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..         56.0       80.4
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             7. 0      36.0                   39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            85.0          99.0      107.0                  116.9                     106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENrT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    105.0        113.0       117.0                 In8.9                      107.4
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)             48.0         51. 0      57.0                  60. 3                      65. 6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AlID PULSE         16.0         18.0      22.0                   18.8                       33. 7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         9.0          5.0        3.0                    5. 3                      8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    57.0            64.0       67.0                   63.0                      63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              75.0/c       41.0       31.0                   52.8                      66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..       62.0                  42.4                       65.9
URBAN                                 ..            ..       93. 0                 62. 1                      8n- 4
RURAL                                  ..           ..       49.0                  29. 7                      44.02
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCEIIT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         59.0       60.0                   52. 8                     62.3
URBAN                                  ..        100.0      100.0                   71. 1                     79.4
RURAL                                  ..         43.0       43.0                  42.4                       29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             6937.0       4260.0    4347.0                 4120. 1                    1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        1776. o/d    1246.0    1079.0                 2213. 6                    1227. 5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               265.0le      285.0      306.0                 P19.4                      480.3
URBAN                                 ..          86.0
RURAL                                  ..       1900.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..       17.2                   28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.9          5.6/e
URBAN                                 5.9          5.9/e
RURAL                                  ..          5. 5/e
AVERAGE NIllBER OF PERSONS PER ROGtl
TOTAL                                 3.0          2.6         ..
URBAN                                 2. 3         2. 3/e      ...
RURAL                                  ..          2. 8/e      ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWIELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..         43. 0/
URBAN                                82.9         84. 7T       .
RURAL                                  ..         30. cT*



-22 -                                                  ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
MALAYSIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MALAYSIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTEI) AVFPACES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA 6 PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBFAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                96.0        91.0      93.0                   98.6                    99.7
HIALE               108.0        95.0      94.0                   99.2                   101.0
FEH3ALE              83.0        87.0      91. 0                  97.7                    99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                19.0        35.0      43.0                   55.5                    34.4
MALE                 25.0        40.0      47.0                   60.7                    33.5
FEMALE               13.0        29.0      38.0                   49.9                    34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)   5.0         3. 2       2.9                  13.7                    38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           28.0        31.0      32.0                   34.6                    30.5
SECONDARY                         38.0        26.0      27.0                   28.5                    14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       53.0        55.0        ..                   85.8                    76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..                    9.0                    43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..                  118.9                   245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.2        18.0       45.0                  39.4                    84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 61.0        65.0      87.0                     ..                    63.3
CINEI1A ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 16.0        9.4       9.1                    4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     2745. 3     3622. 2    4789.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  27.0        31.4      33.0                   36.8                    22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             63. 1       56.0      50.0                   51.9                    37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                11.7        14.0      16.0                   21.9                    23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               34.2        33. 8     33.9                   39. 1                   31. 5
MALE                                48.8        45.7      45.9                   48.5                    48.9
FEMALE                              18.9        21.5      21.5                   29.6                    14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.4         1.5        1.3                   1.1                     1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         27.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   ..         56.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..         3.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF IIOUSEHOLDS    ..        10.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     279.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     252.0                  192.1                   190.8
ESTIMATED RFLATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     313.0                    ..                    474.0
RURAL                               * -                283.0                  182. 5                  332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..       16.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      46.0                   33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
anong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for llost Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1957;  /d 1962;  /e West Malaysia.
Host recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April. 1980.
October, 1980



- 23 -                                                                                 ANNEX I1
Page 3 of 5
DEFI-NITIGNS OPFSOCIO LINDEOATORh
Note,:  Although the data  e  draw  frot sure  gen.eralbfd.ged the s-s  auothaIty inad ye-Iabe, It  -o.id also or -otet that thensy  not be Inter
thees usflo decieodrso   anrd.  lttct                              -teds, andch.roetecranso   differ ene   hetne   onre
The re:rnI:     rup   r  (I) rheaameoutny group of tIheubc  Ioontr   and IL) Jaonto ru  oltb mneoha, hIgher   ...r.. Inoeton the  onr.ru
of  heau fat  ounryfeoet fr   arina  trpus  iltaorrrm   aourhee   NidleinomeNothOf icPad hdde  aet Ischsenheaue o  eroge
ofone.indloanoranttee ai.aoa9thecou...tIIIodreferene. ar.up..
LANDt AREA (,houaen.deq.km.)                                                                   i.cItlt05    nsca-Pop,atlon 01010.0 bynuea  Otp-atlIc 1mgP
Total - Total surfbee  sneooprlsing  land area and inlan  eter.-                               aloi.os yulified from a dsad -clshoo- tuiertplnl
for  -rpe. Paetur, market and bkIche  garen  no to lit  alw    97It                          aeadfml  grauae tme  ,prailaInuresan   aslta -t oursa
GNP per b.pit. e.Ii        ~oelnln  erfisnnl  ed-  otl,uban   m  rel-Pnplaio  lite'l,
GB  P1  APTA111)-  sPpe  n  it  et maesatcuret  aee  prics, cl-                          uban, andrrl  dinided by tbni It repe  nIe   tr of basptral beds
ouae  h   aaconr onmto  anOrdBn    ta    i7-9 heel.); 1960,                                     seaheipulcnd ptnat  meg ra1  aad apecilaised hosponaI aad in-
197h, and 19?Adata. ~ ~ ~ ~        ~          ~        ~         ~ ~ ~ ~~. ,  %p
EIERGY CGNSUMF.TIONPER C"ITA   A ... I b...hy an:leat"on  phyailcian.  fErabliefh-ets p-osdi   primolpa1ly  -a-dlaj
ti4IiO  CBAf5PTIA  PU  CAPTA -Aetnal onaup,ion ot ooeo_   l  nec  y  col             ca re are  o  inluded.  Aura  hoepitala. h-wnr. ioniode health end medical
end lign ite. Petroem   naurl gSe  and hydr-, nucea  and gohra  eIa-                            enrsotpermnenly staffed bp a physiIcian (butb.                   mlaluaaen
tlcitiy) in bkiogrem   of coalI eqinaleo   per caphta; 19b0. 1970. ad 197f                     us,mdrf,ec)albotrt-ain  acoaro   adi- pr.urhde
data,                                                                  l~~~~~~~~~~imited ramge ofmdia  te.ilitic     . Po  sa iannal  p rpe  urban hsepi-
PPMAPLT10N gAND VITAL. STATISTICS                                                                 ..Lrd I             l-i.                .                  -   tI            .
A. of J.ly 1; 1960                    h..bopirala  loca  onrot I- hoeIn.Je and medical sad m.snrayemm.
Toa   oeltoa   Bd-Yea  (imllliae ..   so.   Jl   ;    f  1970. end 1978mssos  e  fontalBed   p Tota  nulro1mmeiaat   rdI ctre
dara.                                                                 from~~~~~~~~~~~~~I    bo-plirae dinided hy rh. numberof beds.
CraaPoultion  Ineca of total  - ltto of urben to roa-            pplain
different deIitions. of orb a   ra  map afetoparaItlity ot data                         HOUtSIN
-mgoutr lea; 1960. 1970,. ad198dn.braeSrofHueoO)esnpehos ol-ta.ubn,ndra-
Porulanlon Profeomiom.                                                                         A houaaboId conist, of a geoup of lodinldal  obo share lining quater
PoultionP in Iear 2      ef  - d Curn   polatiom  prtoletiyn   are batlit   .180           ad thIr main  -.aJ.  A boor.der or lodger may or may not he included In
toa   opltonb   geadse-n lthimotlyantenlncres                                             the houmhold toattlne   pcrpo..ea.
ing   f  enpatanc  abir-th'tncreaetng I             .. coutr'a oa.r oa pita'Incoe         heofprnseros.Ialoan adrulocpidoontoa
leel  ad famal  lite eaatao  aallaage  77.5 years. IThe para-                             doelli,gu.  -epacrl-ly.  Dell~g .ts  nIdeon-ye-nenttouctor-aand
meters for frtltytaeas  ban  three le-l  aasumig deoln   nuocPied parts.
leti  cyuco dingto tncur  eef ed pas  family psan   peforac.                      aost   lorcic    rneto_wlig)-  oa,ubn   n   us
ah Icutr   s  hn  s id   Igmdteo   hese nine cobmoeof morts1lsy                          Conotnldelog.ihestityInlnn                                 eesa  peod      aag
anfenthilnty trande for prnjenim    pCpee.-ftonl  urha.  an  rura  dwelllnga-tpectl--ly
Sctorvtnaaco- I.aetsi.onay populatIon t'her  tan  gr-th since
the hirtb  rate Is equal to the d-shrm,ad .aIa  the age                     I  .tucu e  -  UOCKTION
mai Iastm.This Is a-hie-d owly after f-nilicyIrtsdcieto                                   iutdfroletAto
the replacmet Ie-e  of onin net naproductio-  Iate, ahe  ea.h geeain                      Piayoho-tcl,seadfmle-Gutoa,mleadeae
ofom -rplacee iteelf em. tl. -     ftI  -tat.o.aey pnpulatjoaena                        enolnc  falag,a   hepiay  ee   s  eonagso   ed et
esIae   nthe bas Is of  hbe projectod oautetnceo hepplatio                           primary sohol-aga populacl-co  noraly loolue  chtld-  aged6-li
In the yee- 2000  and the rat  of decline of fertility rate to replace-                     years hot c  djuste  ion dlfrn   egh,  f Prt,ary ed-tioa; for.
sentIt..I                       d                                                                                                                       1 let.cutisoo   nora   dccinnnler   a   aedilP"re
Year  httonr b    oa...   n  s  eaheI         Tb.yar.heatt ndr.P  uan_                        sncha    ppis  r  below   rIa-n  the  1 oi i-ic         ehal age.
a  Dn.ba  bee  reca.hcnaysho       oa,ml   o   eae -Coputed ae ahon; secodan
Pouain mulyeuaineurnatlattu   er   fopoe   rmryimtrotls
Prs.h. - SI-pa   pnuainPer equar  hclomstr  lAO0 hectanne) of                        pridsgnrl  oatoa.o   ece   rInIng  astoi0os  for popik.
totalIems,                                                                               usualy oP 12 ho 17 years of ago; c-r-eponda-c  coaee   ar  g..enaly
Pe   o.h.  giclurllad-  opted se a1boe for agrfclt-rl land                                  eucuded.
porlto,     a    tote   pret   Children )0-14 pears), nnrking-oge  l                             nld   ahia,idsra,o  othe5prgnam  aio  operate ""d'P-
Adyas) rn enred (AS persad oe)a  parcentgee of aId-year popu-                         dently or aa depar-en-  of ascodary In ttlon.
lation; 1960, 1970, and l97g data                                                           yu-aoe  rto-piar,adscndr-oa   td ananrlled J,
P.ulation Groth Rate (PIperem  ) - cota  - At-ul groseh rates of total mid-                     prmr   n   eodr   nel   iie   ynmeso   eacher  in 'the
year ppulatims for190-60, 19670  md 1970-78.                                              --fep-ndiog  e-al..
Pouato  Got   fate 1(nerann   -  rh,   anul grown braces of ubnpp-                     Altliterac   runt pren)-L  eaoaut                        l  to red and write)
1anio.. for 1950-ho, 1960-70, and 1970-78.                                                     aaa     -rce-aa   of toto1 adolt ppulatios aged lb years and -onr.
Crude Binch   t                .prthuad) - A-Itn    line hirthe pnr choasamd of mid-near
PoPo"aita; 1960, 1970, and 1978 data.                                                   CONSUMPTION
Crude leah Bato (re-nthoamdl - Annul deahs Per tho...and ot eid-year                         PaearCr   cctasn    nuaic       aana   ascmra    oo
popalatiom; 1960, 190.-d 1978 dam,                                                            as  etigia  than. -ight person; .oloaaeoace   hessm
irEe  epodoio  lt-Anerage tmber of dough term awoma  nill hea  in                              militar  -nhice.
her nona  repro..donnine perIod if  haeaperian.e.  prset age-specific  fnr-               BalAeeor   pruadnplto) - All cypee of -ec lnere  fo  rado
ti Ly races  oaly fo-pear ao-eraa  en.ding in 1960, 1970, and 1977                         hadtotognrlphopecosad of  pouainscldsu -
Famil  Planing    AccetorsAao-1 (,hoaaa.ada) - Annua  nuber of aeptot                  cnedcc...           ncunre   n  Icecnnnalscalon.Ilt     of radio  e
of  itc-onoro  dolon udern-picee of natIonal  a-ily PIat.iog p.rogra.               amsd icf-nc    aairrco    er   a   o   eoPeaIteoams
Family Plaenilna- .... peroent af mrried noe) -Preotage of married                             conclnuhllbd   1cnnig
amnof chld-hboaring age )15-44 years) who us   irth-control deolie  tn                  AOotesIe  cosn    ouatn                       -      iy-cclnr  for hroadca..t to
alsrid nmni  eeaegop.                                                                  g-rneral public per chousand populati.on; rruesnlne                 V ne-iner
LOOD _ AND MUTRT_TION                                                  ~~        ~ ~~~~~~~~~in ot le -ad In yna-  what registtratIosIf    tt  wnineten
laden nf Pond Pr-du-ine Per Capita (1969-71-lOP) - lode  ofprcpt_eol                           dno   dIygnrlitrs   eaPae, deIedaayroi-aTpb
prdutin  f  ll foodooed tte.Prouto  anlds sned and teed and                            lcat--  denotd pcis-rll  to re-odlsa genra.           en,itI  consIded
iso  clndryerhal.    oditi rocnn  primry goods  .g le .   ....ntat                      to he "dalc Ii It appar  atlat f nor tImes.  a.eeb.
Inard  fsga)nioh are  dible and cotain nutrients ).g. cfean                               TneanuAl Atnac  nrCnr  pen ya -Bsd on the nube  ofI
teI ae  nolded) . Aggregat  prod-ctiun of eacy  --uory isbsdoJ.yeatl   urn   h   er  tcludiogadmission   no dr toe-i  clua_a
national averags producer prtoe weIghts; 19b-65 . 1970  sod lyA   aa.ad schle units.
Per caia   uel   fcaoietneom   of rqirmnt) -Cop-td from
e dryqusln  oftr         -od  oplieeasailable In oo-trp Pet .a.Pica                 L.AJ   FORCt
prdY.  Avala.ble suppli. le    apias domesIpodoo,imotlen                             TtlLbrfre thuudl-onsiayacneesn,icuig
rpro..ad changes to stool.  Net aopplite  00 lode anmlfeed, seeds,                   sndtreaduepoe  bute uig hueIe.Ouet,ec
qaiticn leaad to food Pro..oIa, lo. ad I..m.s in diatribution.  Requtre-                  TetIciti-c   noctu  contie  ar   o   op ble; 1960, 1970 aol
oncanreetimated by PAT basd no phymiolgira1  -eed  for normal  -c-                  I978 dat.-
oirY adh helth co....ideoiog en Iroeoa  cene-ture  body -eighbtt.. agFeaec eco) - 1foa   Lub-r i. Pr u  pecetae  f-tota  lbor force.
adtnd lcihucio Po popao.b    and allwin  10 p-eret for wec   t                         Arclue)rcctLet-Lao  fn-e cctarig  forstY, hootIng sod
houtahold 1ene, 19h1-65, 1970. and1977 danag                                              fi,hln   a   pfcncy   o       -ona  labor forc; 1lybO,_1970 an.d 1970 data.
Per carthampno  prote.t_ Ini  Ir-n  pe  day) - Proi he      -conen  of per capit.          nuiy)tc              - Labor fore in  ting.  cnaro t ion  manstaritg
yr upi  of fond per day.  Net supply of food to defined aa abo.-   Rn-               a....rtlt          oan  aod gas at percentage of consl lahor force; 1960,
)uroeta for.. all  toncia .e..ablinhed by 10Db Pc-td  for  In=u                        1971 and 1978  tm..
aloaceo 0IPm   o   oa  prtein PerdaY aoF0gaao   nmlad                                   Prciaiogt   rret       oa.sl.adfI                             -PotiotarnO
puIoe prni,of nhtch 10 g-om  ahoud be animl proteIn.  Then   tn-                          unltyrcste  optda   otl    ae   n  feal   lbr forte
ard, are lo-rthncoef 75 gram  of total pro cec.  nod 23 gramo of                          percetages of ctal. male and.femal  population ofalagerspcIl;
animalproceh  as anoersgefor the  _trid, Pproposd by FAO in the Third             1960, 1970, and 197) data.  TV em   r   t'   atopeinrtsrfetn
Ou-ld Pond Survey; 1961-65, 1870 sod 1977 dec.baesaorcoec   hepplto.adcn.tn   rn.Afnsn
Chi-ld  laaas 1-4)f5ralc   Oat h)erboadl                    I on    death  per thuad"I          rth   oa  lahr frc . i.fp..1 -    dr5.d65.  oe
age g,Po  1-4 years, to obhidren. in tbie age S_ap; for moat d_elopcm   onus
INts data dertoed from life table,; 1960, 1070 and 1977 data.                           INCOMEi DISTROOOCTION
HEALTH                                                                                                            -.1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eceta   n   rcaelcma)oh  ocs  and kind) - Reci-od by0riche.t
OLitTif                                                                  I percent. ccobrocIIi~h   0 percent, poorest Dpe--nt  and poorest 10 penc on
Life hopecoanoy a  Olctb  loners) -Avsrsge number of yer o.    f life   . rmlin0.    o) cooneboldt
onilych; 1i960y,l 1970 and 1979 dat.-
InfantNtorali  st   rrhousand) - Aenua  deatbn yf in.t. ac,uder oc   er                   PO0E17Y TARGyT CRnyLyS
of age pet tbo...and live births.Etmae  Absylute P..PyIcoeLulCO   e   ait.)   b-ura  andrua-
Acte-  to huft EsLor (reroent of pratol-ittl, urbn,an..                  rra  -                hbNue   nrtc inoe leve  on tIe incm   ln   below  hbih a  li.i
Smeofpeople  toral, urban, ad  rurl  onresable acrst   ae                              nnrtoaleeun  diet plsesona    mfodcqIrsoonnt
-onrspplyfcuo  treatd sacften eaters or untreated hub               oonacstd              afodbe
outer such as that from  prtected boreboies, spint,ad sanitary wells) as                   Itincet    Rtcl oec   enn    eel10orcnc)-ubanadrr.
PeretaeIf the craeco   ouuiu.    no   rsaeaulcnrcrltc    net   noelvl Iton-.brdo   avraepnc pita
fycoca.  cc scndoe  boated non mor  than 200 ene,-               oabunsch                    prrtooalJ -loccori  omb- cocctcoyluli   eied(                        h   ua
.....nubl. ruen    d0 Id.iply that tbe hoome-ir or sebers  It the househcl                 aoae    cuucc    eo1bnut  oe                     noeLne   rrnt      ra
AtesoEorn p.e.da   )aortaunoP of onoulaidlow  - total  urban  andb-'
ruraly' .-Iwe  of. peopl   toalnubn,au  rrl)st-e ocrt
diapoea.  as. peer-ocege  of the in  -ep- ine populatino,.  E  "tuca   II-                                                  Econoic an       ,oial Data Dtnlinio
poasl maY  ,ielud   tAecoenIonaddlnposol,witho  rich out  -tretet,                                                     -cion  Analai  and Prnjenti.n. Dsperot-
of h          _nnocrta en Ia             _ _wcr  yitr-bon  sytn   r the usef
pit pc -nnad  taianInesials



- 24 -                                       ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - MALAYSIA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979:                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(X in constant prices and M$)
US$ Mln      Z         1961-70  1970-76  1977  1978  1979
GNP at Market Pricee            19,370    100.0          6.4       7.7      7.1   7.0   8.3
Gross Domestic Investment        5,082      26.2         6.7       9.4    19.7   9.5  10.5
Gross National Saving            6,173      31.9           .
Exports of Goods, NFS           11,744      60.6         6.0       7.9      3.9   7.9  10.1
Imports of Goods, NFS            9,774      50.5         2.9       6.9    13.7  13.9  18.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Output              Employment         Output Per Worker
US$ Mln      %           Mln     %          US$          %
Agriculture              4,041      25.6         2.0    43.9         2,049       58.5
Industry                  5,017     31.8         0.9    20.0         5,568      159.0
Services                  6,701     42.5          1.6    36.1        4,188      119.6
Total/Average       15,759    100.0          4.5   100.0         3.502      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
M$ Mln                       % of GDP
1979          1979         1971-75         1976/78
Current Receipts                  12,424         28.0            24.0            27.5
Current Expenditures               9,875         22.3            22.5            24.5
Public Authorities Surplus            369          0.8            0.8             1.1
Current Surplus                    2,918          6.6             2.3             4.1
Development Expenditures           5,544          12.5           10.8            12.4
Foreign Borrowing (net)               754          1.7            2.3             1.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES        1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
(Million M$ outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi-Money          4,131  4,666  5,770  7,574  8,729  10,001  12,769  14,861  17,520  21,738
Bank Credit to Public
Sector                         833  1,045  1,186  1,375  1,746   2,148   3,036   3,583   3,379   3,873
Bank Credit to Private
Sector                       2,246  2,572  3,014  4,586  5,278   6,084   7,471   8,970  11,627  14.109
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Money
as % of GDP                   33.3   36.0   40.4   40.0   37.8    45.1    46.4    46.4    48.0    49.0
Consumer Price Index
(1967 = 100)                 101.3  102.9  106.2  117.4  137.8   144.0   147.7   154.8   162.4   168.3
Annual Percentage
Changes in:
Consumer Price Index             1.9    1.6    3.2   10.5   17.4        4.5      2.6      4.8     4.9      3.6
Bank Credit to Public
Sector                        -8.4 . 25.5   13.5   15.9   27.0    14.6    41.3    18.0    -5.7    13.7
Bank Credit to Private
Sector                        21.9   14.6   17.2   52.2   15.1    15.3    22.8    20.1    29.6    21.3
. not applicable
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.



- 25 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-79)
(US$ Million)
1977   1978   1979
(uss millionF)z
Exports f.o.b.                  6,038  7,295  10,857   Rubber                       1,561    21.2
Imports f.o.b.                  4,467  5,749   7,860   Timber                       1,235    16.8
Nonfactor Services (net)         -505   -651  -1,027   Petroleum                    1,058    14.4
Resource Gap (deficit)          1,066    895   1,970   Tin                            820    11.1
Factor Services (net)            -517   -606    -880   Palm Oil                       800    10.9
Net Transfers                     -32    -42      -53   All Other Commodities    1,880    25.6
Balance on Current Account        517    247   1,037
Total                7,360   100.0
Direct Foreign Investment         477    542       594
Net MLT Borrowing /a
Disbursements                   644  1,044      978   EXTEkNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1978
Amortization                    318    558      245
Subtotal                        326    486      733                                     US$ Mln
Other Items n.e.i.               -644   -464  -1,121   Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed   3,004
Increase in Reserves (-)         -199   -269  -1,244   Nonguaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbursed   3,004
International Reserves          2,973  3,243   4,487
(end year)
DEBT-SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                      x
Imports                         578    634
Exports                         854  1,010             Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed        4.0
Of which:  Crude Petro-                              Nonguaranteed Private Debt
leum            770    969            Total Outstanding & Disbursed         4.0
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                         IBRD/IDA LENDING (December 30, 1980)
(US$ million)
Average rate during period:
IBRD
M$ per US$    US$ per M$
Outstanding & Disbursed            489.46
1971              3.05           0.33               Undisbursed                         516.84
1972              2.82           0.35               Outstanding incl. Undisbursed  1,006.30
1973              2.44           0.41
1974              2.41           0.41
1975              2.40           0.42
1976              2.54           0.39
1977              2.46           0.41
1978              2.32           0.43
1979              2.19           0.46
/a  Medium and long-term capital flows are obtained from World Bank debt data and are not
comparable with balance of payments estimates.
not available



- 26 -                       ANNEX II
page 1 of 14 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (AS OF MARCH 31, 1981)
Amount in
US$ million
(Less cancellations)
Loan No.  Year   Borrower          Purpose                       Bank   Undisbursed
Twenty-two loans fully disbursed                                414.97
880     1973   Malaysia          Population                     5.00       0.98
931     1973   Malaysia          Highway (II)                  19.50       3.01
967     1974   Malaysia          Land Settlement               40.00       2.14
973     1974   Malaysia          Agricultural Development    45.00        26.95
974     1974   Malaysia          Education (III)               19.00       8.21
1044     1974   Malaysia          Land Settlement               36.00      14.95
1115     1975   Malaysia          Agricultural Research
and Extension               20.50      9.69
1178     1975   National
Electricity
Board          Power (VII)                   35.00       7.20
1213     1976   Malaysia          Sewerage                      21.50      11.74
1214     1976   Malaysia          Urban Transport (II)          26.00      12.49
1294     1976   Malaysia          Rural Development             21.00      14.29
1329     1976   Malaysia          Education (IV)                35.00      25.57
1376     1977   Malaysia          Highway (III)                 35.00      17.78
1443     1977   National
Electricity
Board          Power (VIII)                  22.00      10.12
1444     1977   Malaysia          Irrigation                    39.00      30.53
1493     1978   Malaysia          National Extension            19.00      16.29
1522     1978   Malaysia          Agricultural Development    26.00        24.62
1580     1978   Sabah Ports
Authority      Ports (II)                    13.00       7.71
1590     1978   Malaysia          Land Settlement               28.00      26.44
1608     1978   Malaysia          Population (II)               17.00      16.00
1618     1978   Malaysia          Coconut Smallholders Dev.   19.50        16.38
1632     1978   Malaysia          Agricultural Development    26.50       21.31
1657     1979   Malaysia          Education (V)                 38.00      35.69
1717     1979   Malaysia          Irrigation                    31.00      28.24
1808     1980   National
Electricity
Board          Power IX                      50.00     49.94
1899     1980   Malaysia          Agriculture Development /a  25.00        25.00
1900     1980   Malaysia          Agriculture Credit /a         30.00      30.00
1957     1981   Malaysia          Rompin-Endau                  40.00     40.00
Area Development /a
1960     1981   Malaysia          Trans-Perak
Area Development /a           50.00     50.0
Total loans (less cancellations)                   1,247.47
of which has been repaid                           144.68
Total now outstanding                              1,102.79
Amount sold                                43.89
of which has been repaid                34.43        9.46
Total loans now held by Bank                       1,093.33
Total undisbursed                                               583.27
/a Not effective as of March 31, 1981.



- 27 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF MARCH 31, 1981)
Type of         Amount in US$ millior
Year                                        business        Loan    Equity    Total
1964  Malaysian Industrial Development    Development
Finance Ltd. (MIDF)                   financing       -      1.31      1.31
1966  Tasek Cement Ltd.                     Cement          1.28     0.28       1.56
1968  Malayawata Steel Ltd.                 Steel          2.45      1.01      3.46
1969  Malayawata Steel Ltd.                 Steel             -      0.23      0.23
1970  India-Malaysia Textiles, Ltd.         Textiles        1.25     0.25      1.50
1974  Malaysian Industrial Development    Development
Finance Ltd. (MIDF)                   financing       -      0.63      0.63
Total gross commitment                               4.98      3.71      8.69
Less: repayments, sales, cancellations,
terminations and write-offs                   4.09     3.46       7.55
Total commitments now held by IFC                    0.89      0.25      1.14
Total undisbursed                                    _        _          _



- 28 -                        ANNEX If
Page 3 of 14 pages
MALAYSIA
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
GENERAL AGRICUTLTURE
Loan No. 967 Johore Land Settlement Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1974; Effective Date: May 16, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of clearance of about 83,000 acres of land
and planting of 72,000 acres of oil palm, construction of 5 palm oil mills,
8 villages, access roads, power and water and settlement of about 7,000
families. Clearance and planting have been completed on schedule. Plant-
ing and maintenance standards and initial yields are satisfactory. About 40%
of the planted area suffered some damage by game, mainly elephant and wild
boar, requiring substantial replacement of damaged palms. Boundary trenches
have been constructed and have reduced losses. Delays in construction of
major access roads and water supply were caused by lack of PWD capacity.
Establishment of a coordination committee and use of contractors for this
construction have largely overcome these problems, but settlement development
remains one to three years behind schedule. To date, 4,200 houses have been
completed and 4,100 families settled.
Loan No. 1044 Keratong Land Settlement Project; US$36.0 Million Loan of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project consists of clearing about 63,000 acres of land and
planting and maintenance of about 55,000 acres of oil palms; construction
of three palm oil mills and establishment of two urban settlements for about
5,500 families. Clearance and planting have been completed, with minor slip-
page from the original schedule. Planting and maintenance standards and
initial yields are satisfactory. On four schemes, 25% of palms initially
planted were damaged by game, and were replaced. Boundary trenches were
constructed and have reduced further damage. Settlement development has
been 2-3 years behind schedule, because of poor access, and capacity
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14 pages
constraints in PWD. The Bahan-Keratong highway has been opened to traffic and
the project area is no longer isolated; 2,400 houses have been constructed and
2,200 families settled. Some further slippage may occur because of contractor
difficulties caused by rising timber prices and shortages of skilled labor.
Loan No. 1115 Agricultural Research and Extension Project; US$20.5 Million
Loan of May 30, 1975; Effective Date: October 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is designed to expand and strengthen research programs
and to establish an Extension Liaison Unit in the Department of Agriculture.
The project was restructured in mid-1979 and the focus was changed from
commodity specific research to include all broad-based research programs of
the Research Institute. Subsequently, the loan was reduced from $28.5 million
to $20.5 million involving reductions in the use of consultants, livestock,
equipment and civil works components. The restructuring has simplified
administration and facilitated disbursements. Progress in strengthening
research programs and physical implementation, except hiring of consultants is
satisfactory.
Loan No. 1493 National Extension Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of January 10,
1978; Effective Date: September 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project is designed to strengthen agriculture extension and
related services on a national basis in Malaysia. An uncertain federal/state
relationship continues to constrain implementation. Specifically, the main
constraints are (a) the inability to fill operative level posts due to the
shortage of trained staff and the temporary status of posts; and (b) the
inability of the Public Works Department to prepare timely civil works
designs. Hiring of operative level staff improved significantly in Peninsular
Malaysia in 1980; however Sabah and Sarawak continue to resist Federal control
over the establishment of posts and hiring of staff under the project. Civil
works construction should show considerable improvement in Peninsular Malaysia
in FY82. Civil works progress is satisfactory in Sarawak and improving in
Sabah. A large number of operative level technicians have received T&V me-
thodology training and the T&V system has been well accepted and its applica-
tion is becoming widespread.
Loan No. 1590 FELDA VI Land Settlement Project; US$28.0 Million Loan of
August 11, 1978; Effective Date: March 9, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project consists of land clearing, planting and maintenance of
62,000 acres of rubber, up to 10,000 acres of cocoa and 500 acres of
experimental plantings of other crops in the states of Pahang and Negri
Sembilan; recruitment and settlement of 6,200 rubber smallholders and 1,500



- 30 -                       ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14 pages
hired laborers; and construction of necessary housing and infrastructure
facilities. About 29,000 acres have been cleared and 23,000 acres planted
with rubber. Planting and maintenance standards are satisfactory. Clearing
and planting operations are seriously delayed in Pahang State due to delayed
forest clearances by the State. FELDA is reviewing alternative development
proposals to offset slow development in Pahang, one possibility being the
expansion of the project areas in Negri Sembilan. The cocoa planting program
has been tentatively postponed until 1983 pending further soil and
climatological studies. A start has been made (100 acres) with the crop
diversification experimental program.
Loan No. 1618 Coconut Smallholders Development Project; US$19.5 Million
Loan of October 24, 1978; Effective Date: February 23, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project consists of rehabilitation of about 40,500 acres of
traditional MT Coconuts and intercropping with cocoa, coffee, fruits; new
planting and replanting of about 17,000 acres with hybrid coconuts and
associated cash crop gardens in the initial years; the provision for the
importation of about 6,600 crossbred dairy animals for the development of
about 3,350 integrated dairy and beef operations; and the strengthening of
support services for crop and dairy production. The overall crop component is
ahead of schedule but with uneven performance. About 3,800 farm families have
received assistance to rehabilitate 13,000 acres and replant 2,650 acres in
1979. Progress of the crop component continued to be satisfactory in 1980.
The dairy/beef component is more than one year behind schedule because of
delays in importing heifers, which are now being overcome. Recruitment of
staff has been slow but is improving.
Loan No. 1899 Kelantan Land Schemes Rehabilitation Project; US$25.0 Million
Loan of December 1, 1980; Not Yet Effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Assistance will be provided to 5,700 settlers on TAKDIR land settle-
ment schemes to complete development of their holdings and to replant or
rehabilitate existing crops. One thousand eight hundred (1,800) families
will be settled to develop landholdings on the schemes. About 28,000 acres
of rubber will be planted, 14,000 acres rehabilitated and 7,000 replanted, and
3,000 acres of orchard be rehabilitated.  In 1980, 6,000 acres of rubber were
planted, rehabilitation began in 600 acres of orchards, and 2,000 houses are
being improved or constructed. Basic infrastructure will be completed on the
schemes and TAKDIR will be strengthened.



- 31 -                        ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1900 Rural Credit Project; US$30.0 Million Loan of December 1, 1980;
Not Yet Effective; Closing Date; June 30, 1984
The project is designed to support the expansion of BPM's portfolio
of agricultural production credits, and term loans for rural development and
increased agricultural production. Assistance will be provided to expand
BPM-s branch network, to improve its financial management and planning
function and to develop its staff training program.
IRRIGATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 973 Western Johore Agricultural Development Project; US$45.0 Million
Loan of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: August 14, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes main and feeder drains, farm roads, coastal
embankments and tidal gates to improve drainage and access in the tree crop
area of about 135,000 ha in southwest Peninsular Malaysia, as well as an
integrated agricultural development program to introduce intercropping and
other changes in cropping patterns, construction of farmers development
centers, and improvements in research and extension.   All civil works have
either been completed or started and would be completed by end-1983, except
for the farm roads which would be completed by end-1984. Staffing and land
acquisition are no longer constraints. Construction of the MACAP dam, with
45% progress, is expected to be completed April 1982. Tender for Sembrong
dam has been closed in early 1981. Due to relocation of the Bekok dam site,
the consultants are now arranging further investigations to enable design to
be finalized. Progress on the agriculture side is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1294 North Kelantan Rural Development Project; US$21.0 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: October 28, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project includes drainage and flood protection for 30,000 ha
and intensive irrigation for 12,000 ha of padi land; construction of 190 km
of rural roads; 15 small irrigation schemes serving 1,300 ha; construction,
rehabilitation and equipment of 25 farmers development centers; and estab-
lishment of agricultural extension services. Implementation of civil works
has fallen about four years behind schedule, due mainly to initial staffing
shortages (particularly at DID headquarters for design and tendering), delays
in land acquisition, and the need for studies to define the final alignments
of flood protection bunds. Progress on the establishment of agricultural
support services is generally satisfactory. Project completion is expected
by December 1984.



- 32 -                         ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1444 National Small-Scale Irrigation Project; US$39.0 Million
Loan of August 3, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
This project includes construction of small irrigation systems with
a total irrigable area of about 54,000 ha distributed throughout Malaysia;
technical assistance and training for DID; procurement of equipment and a
feasibility study for the Rompin-Endau irrigation project. Construction is
proceeding satisfactorily and work should be completed by end-1983. Of the
195 proposed schemes to be implemented under the project, 84 schemes have been
rejected/deleted by the Preparation and Evaluation Team and 16 new schemes
have been added; the revised number of schemes proposed under the project is
now 127 covering about 42,000 ha. Of these, 121 have been approved by the
Bank for inclusion in the project following appraisal by the Preparation and
Evaluation Team. Construction of 29 schemes had been completed and 72 schemes
were under construction as of December 31, 1980. The final draft of the
feasibility report for the Rompin-Endau Project was submitted by the
consultants to the Government in December 1979.
Loan No. 1522 Northwest Selangor Integrated Agricultural Development Project;
US$26.0 Million Loan of March 8, 1978; Effective Date:
June 21, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project includes intensification of irrigation network for
20,000 ha of padi; drainage work for 77,000 ha of tree crops; and facilities,
equipment, and training to support an intensified program of agricultural
services for the Northwest Selangor region's smallholders. The project
started out about one year behind schedule due primarily to staff shortages,
but now significant progress has been made on staffing, design and tendering
of structural tertiaries, and planning, survey and design of drainage works.
Progress on the agricultural component is satisfactory. A draft agricultural
services operation and designer's operations manuals have been prepared. The
project is expected to be completed by mid-1985, about two and a half years
behind appraisal schedule.
Loan No. 1632 Krian-Sungei Manik Integrated Agricultural Development Project
US$26.5 Million Loan of December 13, 1978; Effective Date:
March 6, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide improved drainage and irrigation facili-
ties, access roads, training and intensifed agricultural supporting services
in two separate areas, covering a total of about 30,000 ha of padi land in
the state of Perak.  Due to initial staff shortages and continuing delays in
land acquisition, project completion is now expected by the end of 1985, two
years behind the appraisal estimate.  Staffing is no longer a constraint but
progress in land acquisition is behind schedule. The ongoing civil works
contracts are making satisfactory progress. Good progress is being achieved
in implementing the T&V system.



- 33 -                       ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1717 Muda II Irrigation Project; US$31.0 Million Loan of
July 30, 1979; Effective Date: September 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is the first phase of tertiary irrigation and drainage
development in the Muda irrigation area, where storage facilities and main
canal system were constructed under a previous Bank-financed project
(Loan 434-MA) during the period 1965-70. The project will provide tertiary
irrigation canals, drainage channels, and farm roads to serve nearly 25,000 ha
of padi land, representing about 25% of the total command area. It also
includes establishment of a highly organized extension system, improvement of
operation and maintenance facilities, drainage and coastal protection works
serving the entire 98,000 ha area. Significant steps have been made toward
the formation of extension service units in both the project and nonproject
command areas. A draft agricultural service operations manual and a list of
proposals for pilot studies have been prepared. Project completion is now
expected end-1985 as compared to end-1983 at appraisal.
Loan 1957 Rompin-Endau Area Development Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
May 6, 1981; Not Yet Effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
The project is designed to provide for construction of irrigation
works and development of new land for double cropping for rice on about
11,400 ha in four subprojects along the Rompin, Pontin, Anak Endau rivers in
southeastern Pahang State on the east coast of Penninsular Malaysia and for
housing and social facilities for about 4,750 settler families.
Loan 1960 Trans-Perak Area Development Project; US$50.0 Million Loan of
May 6, 1981; Not Yet Effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1989
The project would provide for development of 13,600 ha of new land
for rice and treecrops, and rehabilitation of 4,900 ha of existing rice land
in Perak State. It would also include roads, housing, community facilities,
palm oil and cocoa mills, and supporting services for agriculture and com-
munity development for about 6,900 settler families, presently landless or
cultivating uneconomic-sized holdings in Perak and other states.
EDUCATION
Loan No. 974   Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of April 5,
1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The Project includes eight general secondary schools, four teacher
training colleges and one polytechnic institute in Peninsular Malaysia and
education mass media in Sabah/Sarawak. Project implementation is about
three years behind schedule because of site selection problems, slow design



- 341-                          ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14 pages
and tendering, poor performance by contractors and shortages of building
materials and labor. Construction has been completed at about 50% of
project locations. Disbursements are improving.
Loan No. 1329 Fourth Education Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of
November 18, 1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project provides for: (a) improved planning and construction
of approximately 850 primary schools in seven most disadvantaged states of
Malaysia; (b) establishment of four educational resource centers and one
teacher training college; (c) expansion of two and establishment of three
industrial training institutes; and (d) further study of community education
needs. The pace of primary school construction program (75% of project
total) is satisfactory. Over 50% of the primary schools have been
completed; the remaining project items are under construction.
Loan No. 1657 Fifth Education Project; US$38.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1979; Effective Date: May 7, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
The project provides for: (a) construction and equipment for 76
lower secondary schools to be located in areas of poor access to education;
(b) establishment of administrative training institutes for headmasters and
other educational officers; (c) a new central campus and three regional
centers to expand the capacity and improve the program of the national public
administration academy; and (d) assistance to long-range planning of occupa-
tional training. Implementation performance is good (about 10% of secondary
schools have been completed), and overall the project is on schedule.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1178 Seventh Power Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of December 17,
1975; Effective Date: March 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Extension of Prai Power Station under the Seventh Power Project is
proceeding satisfactorily, about 98% complete at the end of September 1980.
Units No. 4 and 5 were taken over by NEB in December 1979 and June 1980,
respectively. Unit No. 6 was commissioned in October 1980.
Loan No. 1443 Eighth Power Project; US$22.0 Million Loan of August 3,
1977; Effective Date: January 9, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Progress on the Pasir Gudang Thermal Power Station under the Eighth
Power Project was about 62% complete at the end of December 1980, about



- 35                           ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14 pages
6 months behind the revised schedule due to delay in civil works. The commis-
sion date for the first unit is now estimated to be December 1981 and the
second unit in June 1982.
Loan No. 1808 Ninth Power Project; US$50.0 Million Loan of May 21, 1980;
Effective Date: November 6, 1980; Closing Date: August 31, 1985
The project, estimated to cost $232.9 million, will be cofinanced by
Commonwealth Development Corporation (UK), Canadian International Development
Agency, Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan) and commercial banks. It
includes construction of two dams and hydroelectric power stations (192 MW)
and about 174 km of transmission lines and associated substations. Site
preparatory works have commenced. Contracts for major electrical and
mechanical works have been awarded,
Loan No. 1213 Kuala Lumpur Sewerage Project; US$21.5 Million Loan of
March 11, 1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is the first stage (1976-81) of a 30-year masterplan
for sewerage development in the Kuala Lumpur metropolitan area. It includes
the extension of sewage collection (about 70 miles of trunk and lateral
sewers) and treatment facilities to serve an additional population of 200,000
in the Kuala Lumpur Federal Territory; the institution of a separate Sewerage
Department within the Kuala Lumpur City Hall with its own accounting system
and finances; engineering and management consultant services; staff training;
and the preparation of sewerage and pollution control system in the Kuala
Lumpur metropolitan area. The engineering of the project has been satisfac-
torily completed. Construction of the three major contracts is progressing.
Land acquisition and resettlement of present occupants have created serious
problems but these are now being solved. Sewerage surcharges on water bills
were instituted after delays. Compliance with covenants regarding long-term
sewerage and urban planning in Selangor State is lagging. The project is
expected to be completed by mid-1982, about two years behind the original
schedule, at about the estimated cost.
TRANSPORTATION
Loan No. 931   Second Highway Project; US$19.5 Million Loan of August 22,
1973; Effective Date: October 25, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project includes: (a) construction and improvement of two
sections of Federal Route I totalling about 90 miles in length; and (b)
consultant services for (i) feasibility studies and detailed engineering of
about 22 miles of Route I and connecting roads in the vicinity of Kuala
Lumpur, (ii) detailed engineering of about 200 miles of roads in West and East
Malaysia, (iii) town development studies for Kuantan and for the region of



- 36 -                         ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14 pages
North-East Negri Sembilan and an urban road improvement study for Kuala
Lumpur, and (iv) supervision of (a) above.
The project, several months after its original completion date, is
now 98% completed. All studies and detailed engineering have been completed.
The new Kuala Lumpur-Seremban Expressway was open to traffic for about 80% of
its length by the end of 1977, and except for a one-mile section at the
northern end, the balance of the Expressway and its access ramps were opened
to traffic by the beginning of June 1979. The northern extremity, which has
been completed, will be open to traffic in about June 1981, after the
completion of the interchange and access ramps which form part of the Kuala
Lumpur Traffic Dispersal Scheme (Loan No. 1214). Government is taking steps
to remove traffic hazards on the expressway which had been created by
unauthorized use of road and shoulders for commercial activities. The Kuala
Lumpur-Seremban Road improvement works have l een completed. Difficulties with
land acquisition have been largely responsible for long delays in the
completion of the widening and improvement works for the Kuala Lumpur-Batang
Kali Road, construction of which began in November 1976; it is now 90%
completed. Construction costs have escalated sharply due to the delays in
project execution combined with rapid inflation and the total project cost is
now estimated at US$53 million compared to an appraisal estimate of US$37
million, an increase of 43%.
Loan No. 1376   Third Highway Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of April 4, 1977;
Effective Date: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of: (a) reconstruction and improvement of
trunk roads in Sabah; (b) four-year maintenance program for Sabah, including
procurement of equipment, upgrading 290 miles of 13 road sections and
consultants services for supervision of construction and technical assistance
to Sabah's PWD; (c) development of pilot road maintenance and pavement
strengthening programs for the states of Johore, Perak and Kelantan in
Peninsular Malaysia, including pavement strengthening of about 120 mi in
Johore; and (d) a transport/railway study for Peninsular Malaysia and an
urban study of Kota Kinabalu.
The project overall is about 80% completed. Construction work on
the east and west coast roads in Sabah (three contracts) started in September
1977, about five months behind schedule. The west coast road is completed.
Of the two contracts comprising the east coast road, one has recently been
rescinded and was assigned to another contractor who was the second lowest
bidder. The Highway Maintenance and Road Upgrading Program in Sabah is now
proceeding satisfactorily with the help of consultants but the program is a
year behind schedule. Progress is satisfactory on the Pavement Strength-
ening Program in the three pilot states in Peninsular Malaysia, but the
reorganization and upgrading of the State Maintenance Sections and of the
Maintenance Unit within the Federal Public Works Department is behind
schedule, primarily due to national staff shortages. The urban study of



- 37 -                      ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14 pages
Kota Kinabalu in Sabah and the transport/railway study in Peninsular Malaysia
have been completed. Procurement of the first and second tranches of main-
tenance equipment for the Sabah Highway Maintenance Program has been com-
pleted. Proposals for procurement of additional equipment and some technical
assistance, which would represent the balance of the loan, is under prepara-
tion. The Closing Date is likely to require extention by one year.
Loan No. 1580   Second Sabah Ports Project; US$13.0 Million Loan of
September 20, 1978; Effective Date: November 10, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project aims at: (a) providing Tawau Port with the capacity to
meet forecasted traffic; (b) providing the ports of Kota Kinabalu, Sandakan
and Tawau with cargo handling equipment to meet future traffic growth; and
(c) improving the performance of the Sabah Ports Authority by providing
technical assistance and staff training. Civil works commenced in December
1979 and are about 40% complete. Traffic and financial results for 1980 were
generally better than forecasted. Management consultants completed field work
in July 1980 and a draft final report in December 1980, which is now being
reviewed by the Sabah Ports Authority.
POPULATION
Loan No. 880   First Population Project; US$5.0 Million Loan of February 9,
1973; Effective Date: June 21, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The objective of the project is to: (a) strengthen administration
of the family planning program; (b) extend family planning services to rural
areas; (c) expedite in-service training of medical and paramedical personnel
in family planning; (d) introduce population education in schools; (e)
improve family planning, nutrition and health education programs for the rural
population; (f) broaden research and evaluation through establishment of
population research centers.
Recent Government actions have accelerated the project's implementa-
tion rate. With only minor exceptions, all nonconstruction components of the
project will be completed on schedule and reimbursement claimed by the closing
date. In the construction category, 98% of all buildings are completed or now
under construction. Although a small number (21 out of 571) of facilities
will remain uncompleted by the closing date, sufficient volume of work should
be completed to enable withdrawal of the total loan amount under this
category. A recent Government decision to overhaul the primary and secondary
school curricula will delay until 1983 the nationwide expansion of population
education into the school system, but preparation of teaching materials and
teacher training will continue in the interim.



- 38 -                      ANNEX_II
Page 13 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1608 Second Population and Family Health Project; US$17.0 Million
Loan of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 15, 1978;
Closing Date; December 31, 1983
The project is designed to strengthen further the national family
planning program in order to achieve the demographic goal of reducing the
birth rate from 30.3 per 1,000 in 1975 to 26 in 1985, with a corresponding
reduction in the population growth rate from 2.4% to 2% in Peninsular
Malaysia, and to extend family planning services to Sabah and Sarawak for the
improvement of maternal and child health.
Implementation of this project has been slow, due partly to staff
turnovers in the implementing agencies, and to planning delays concerning
several of the larger construction facilities. As of December 1980, 19
facilities were completed, and 133 of the 200 sites needed had been acquired.
Progress in the procurement, training, research, evaluation, the civil works
component in Sarawak, and women's development program activities under the
Ministry of Agriculture are all satisfactory.  The National Family Planning
Board, in collaboration with other implementing agencies, has completed the
operational manual, project evaluation action plan and subplans for infor-
mation/education/communication. There remains, however, a shortage of skilled
staff to handle development and monitoring of communication and research
utilization to meet emerging program needs.
URBAN
Loan No. 1214 Second Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project; US$26.0 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effective Date: November 11, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The main objective of the project is to increase the efficiency of
the transport system in Kuala Lumpur. Public transport services will be
improved while the use of private cars will be restrained. Although primarily
concerned with urban transport, the project also introduces new approaches to
residential development for low-income families. The main components are:
(a) road and intersection improvements, traffic engineering and control
schemes and construction of new radial roads; (b) transport policy measures
including introduction of minibus services, traffic priorities for high-
occupancy vehicles and area road pricing; (c) provision of new serviced plots
for households and businesses, and improvement of infrastructure services for
existing households; and (d) technical assistance to support traffic manage-
mert and transport planning, to prepare an urban development project for
Kuantan, and to review national housing policies and programs. The major
problem in project implementation has been the Government's unwillingness to
pursue the transport policy measures. However, after several years of a
nearly constant bus fleet, the Government allowed an 18% fleet expansion in
late 1980 and a similar amount is planned for 1981. Coordination among the



- 39 -                        ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14 pages
public transport agencies has improved substantially and area road pricing is
being discussed again. Enforcement of the HOV lanes is a current difficulty
but seems near resolution. The road and intersection improvements, and
traffic signal installations are nearing completion. The execution of the
residential components of the project has been unsatisfactory due to adminis-
trative problems and this component of the loan is likely to be cancelled.



- 40 -                              ANNEX III
Page 1
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 10 months
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project:  FELCRA
(c) Date of first presentation to Bank: June 1979
Date of first Bank mission to consider the project:  October 1979
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:  August 30, 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: April 27, 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: October 16, 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)  The proceeds of the loan would be made available to FELCRA under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 41).
(b) Retroactive financing of up to $3.0 million is proposed (para. 46);
(c) Schemes selected for inclusion in the project would yield an
economic rate of return of 10% or more and feasibility reports for
schemes of 1,500 acres or above would be forwarded to the Bank for
prior review (para. 48);
(d) FELCRA would carry out a study of settler selection criteria
by June 30, 1982 and promptly submit proposals for their
modification to Government and the Bank (para. 49);
(e) FELCRA would appoint a Deputy Director-General (Administration) by
June 30, 1983 (para. 50);



- 41 -                               ANNEX III
Page 2
(f) FELCRA would appoint 4 Regional Controllers and a Director of
Program Development and Evaluation by December 31, 1982
(paras. 51 and 53);
(g) FELCRA would by tMarch 31, 1982, submit a plan for organizational
strengthening and expansion which would be implemented in
consultation with the Government and the Bank (para. 51);
(h) FELCRA would employ a Training and Staff Development Adviser and
Senior Planning Adviser by December 31, 1981 (paras. 52 and 53);
and
(i) FELCRA would prepare proposals for implementation of a system
of financial reporting acceptable to Government and the Bank
by June 30, 1982 and a five-year financial projection by
December 31, 1982 (para. 56).






IBRD 15400
100                                                      1020                                                      1040     NOVEMBER 1980
M MAL AY SI A
DISTRIBUTION OF FELCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
BY STATE
\-9, T H A I L A N D                     X                        EXISTING SCHEMES               PROPOSED F.M.P. SCHEMES(1981-1985)
THAILAN  D                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~       ~       ~ ~~~(1967-1980)  FELCRA I  84,202Acres
TRANS PERAK 32,200Acres
'U-7  k4\_ - OTHER 24,500 Acres
,  '  PERLIS   ~'/>.                         \,                              JTotal 304,856 Acres
-   ---STATE  BOUNDARIES
<2>-      -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
- ~~~~~~~~~0                     40   810   120   1 60
60f 0                              0         4;                        /           \       KILOMETERS                    6S-
MILES    ~     2          0        7          0
23,056 Acres    -\                                                                   2 *                 7 \
-  KEDAH  )
P. PINANG                    PERAK         r 16 700                     ,100
28,082 Acres        ,               C7                      I
TRANS PERAK                                                   KELANTAN
PROJECT    N         N                                            \          r F-        29,257 Ace
32,200 o         > \                 >                                                       rIo    T
N  N                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~TRENGGANU
29021          -               F                      ~~~SOUTH
9u"                    ~~~~~~~29,03 1..
40                                                       to                                            \    ) C            C H I N  A
'_40                                           (                             -                                                       4
72Z531 Acre                               2,0                                                       SEA
-,J
51,0 76 Acres
>,  \> SELANGOR  5  >   <            PAHANG
(4,900
-Z
C,                        )
<  NEGERIS  LBN     24,538 Acres2,10..
B8ILAN .-          /2,100
,          v-'-"'-* ,.0  
* (              >,             >6,0X3 Acres
"'k       -    -    MLA~C
-2 0                                 i\,,        ''g<_>r\             MAtAtCA-4 43,7133                                                              2
I N  D O  N  E S I A                                                                                            JOHORE
Th,n .naP h.. been prepared by the w,rld Bash's stat, e-o-corly for the -oneeience        ,     OTHER 
of t  p - oheaenrs  therport to wb,cht toarttareo The denonrinerons soed I th                                           SINGAPORE
boanda,'es Shown 0n thin mas do flat ompl on the part of the Wortd Rank 000 ,ts  ,     24,500 Acres
alf,late, any judgient en the legal status of coy tenitsy or any endorsemen, or
acceptance f s-ch b-ondieaj
1000                                                   1020      I, f                                             DQ40



