Document of
The World Bank                  FIECP'
FOR OFFICIAL USE ON]LY
Report No. 3301b-MA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
May 1, 1981
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Ringgit (M$)
US$1.00    = M$2.15
M$1.00    = US$0.465
M$ million = US$465,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 mile
1 meter (m) = 3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq m) = 10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (cu m) = 35.31 cubic feet
= 1.308 cubic yards
1 kilogram (kg) = 2.2 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
BOD    = Biological Oxygen Demand
BPM    = Bank Pertanian Malaysia
CCL    = Critical Consumption Level
DOE    = Division of Environment
ERR    = Economic Rate of Return
FA     = Field Assistant
FELCRA = Federal Land Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority
FELDA  = Federal Land Development Authority
ffb    = fresh fruit bunch
FMP    = Fourth Mlalaysia Plan
GSA    = Group Settlement Act
IADP   = Integrated Agricultural Development Project
ICU    = Implementation Coordination Unit
MARDEC = Malaysian Rubber Development Corporation
MARDI  = Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute
MLRD   = Ministry of Land and Regional Development
MOA    = Ministry of Agriculture
NDPC   = National Development Planning Committee
NEB    = National Electricity Board
NLC    = National Land Council
NPV    = Net Present Value
O&M    = Operation and Maintenance
PWD    = Public Works Department
RISDA  = Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority
RRIM   = Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia
TSDU   = Training and Staff Development Unit
MALAYSIAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL'OF THE FELCRA I PItOJECT
Table-df Contents
Page No.
1.    BACKGROUND.   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .,.  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  1
A.  Project Background .. . . . . . . . . . . .                     1
B.  Agricultural Sector .    ..                   . . . . . . . .1
C.  Government Policy                .  .  .  .                     2
Problems .   .   . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .  .  .  ....   .    2
Objectives.           . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    3
Strategies....    .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  ..  3
Bank Lending Strategy .......             .  .   . . .  .    .   4
2.  LAND DEVELOPMENT AND THE ROLE OF FELCRA   ... .       .  .  .  .  .  .    .   4
A.  Background . . . . . . . . .        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
B. FELCRA . .              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
Authority .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
Development Models  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
Funding . . . . . .                                           8
.Program . . .  .......................  ............................    8
Organization, Management and
Operations  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .   .  .  .  .  9
3. THE PROJECT . . . . . . . .        .  . . . .     . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
A.  Project Objectives. . . .   . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .   12
B.  Brief Description  . .  .      ....           .  .  .  .       13
C.  Detailed Features ...............     .                        14
Project Areas . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . .   14
Land Development  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Scheme Infrastructure . ..... .....  16
Processing Facilities .       . . .   . . . . . . . . .. .   17
Institution Building  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
D.  Implementation Schedule ...... ....                            20
E.  Project Cost  ......... ........ ...                           20
F.  Financing . . . . . . . . . . . .         .    .  . . . . . .  .   20
G. Procurement       ..    ..                 .. ...               23
H.  Disbursement . . . . .   .   .  .... . . .  23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Malaysia in September 1980, consisting of Messrs. J. English, C. Maguire,
N. Pijl (Bank), R. Hoover and J. Lawrence (consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
4.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .        . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
A.  Project Organization  ...... . .  .........  .   24
Scheme Operation  ......  .  ..   ...........   24
B.  FELCRA Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  25
C.  Scheme Development  . . ...... . .  .  .   ........  28
Scheme Selection .  . . .    .      . . . . . . . . .   28
Participant Selection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
D.  Monitoring and Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
E. Other Studies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
F.  Operation and Maintenance ....   ............   34
G.  Accounts and Audit  . ....... . . .       ........  34
5.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING PRICES AND INCOMES. . . . . . . . . . . .  34
A.  Production Technology ......  .  ..  .. . . . .  .     .   .   34
B.  Incremental Production. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
C.  Marketing .................  . .  . ....    35
D. Product Prices  ........  ...    ..........   36
E. Scheme Models .........  ...  .   .........   36
6.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
A. General ...  ... 40
B. Project Benefits             . . .... 40
C.  Beneficiaries ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ...... .  41
D.  Cost Recovery ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .   .  44
E.  Economic Analysis ....  .  .  .  .  .  .   ...... .  .  .   .   45
F.  Project Risks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  47
G.  Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  48
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . .  48



- iii -
Page No.
LIST OF TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
3.1  Distribution of Land Development Program by Type
of Scheme, Proposed Crop and State .................. ...        14
3.2  Phasing of Land Development Program           .    .     .         15
3.3  Project Cost .............................................         21
3.4  Financing Plan           ......................                    22
5.1  Summary of Incremental Production Under the Project .......        35
5.2  Summary Cash Flow Analysis of a 1,000 Acre Rubber Scheme..         38
5.3 Summary Cash Flow Analysis of a 1,000 Acre Oil
Palm Scheme .................                    .............................  39
6.1  Distribution of Benefits by Beneficiary Group at
Full Development ...........  .    ............................  42
6.2 Participant Dividend and Wage Incomes on Rubber
and Oil Palm Fringe Schemes             . . .                    43
6.3  Cost Recovery .............................................        45
ANNEXE S
1. Development Schedule. Cost Estimates. Equipment and Staffing Lists.
Schedule of Expenditure. Disbursement and Allocation of Loan
Proceeds.
2. Technology and Production Specifications
3. Financial Results
4. Economic and Financial Analysis
5. Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
'LIST OF FIGURES
EBRD 22021 FELCRA Organization Chart
'IBRD 22423 FELCRA Proposed Organization Structure
EBRD 22223 FELCRA Planned Regional Structure
1MAP
[BRD 15400  Distribution of FELCRA Land Development Program
by State






1. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      The Government of Malaysia has requested a Bank loan to help
finance a project to implement the core program of the Federal Land
Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA) over the Fourth
Malaysia Plan Period (1981-1985). This would rehabilitate or develop about
84,000 acres of land in about 90 small schemes scattered throughout
Peninsular Malaysia, and would benefit directly about 12,000 households.
About 75% of the schemes would be located in the low-income and relatively
underdeveloped states of Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu and Pahang, and the
program as a whole is in line with the overall country strategy of emphasis
on poverty redressal.  The major objective of thes project is to strengthen
FELCRA's capability to plan and implement smallholder improvement projects.
As a consequence of the project, FELCRA would sharpen the focus of its
program and elaborate alternative approaches to the rehabilitation and
structural improvement of smallholder agriculture. The total project cost
is estimated at $139 million of which $37 million would be provided as a
Bank Loan. The proposed project was prepared by FELCRA, assisted by a Bank
preparation mission.
B. Agricultural Sector
1.02      Of Malaysia's total land area of 128,370 sq mi, 50,800 sq mi is in
Peninsular or West Malaysia. Less than 25% of Peninsular Malaysia is culti-
vated. Tropical rain forest covers most of the remainder. Temperatures are
uniformly warm to hot, and rainfall is abundant. The population in 1978 was
estimated at 12.9 million, with a growth rate of about 2.7% per annum. About
85% of the population lives in Peninsular Malaysia, where the highest
densities are on the west coast and the south, and about 53% of the
population is Malay, 36% Chinese, and 11% Indian.
1.03      Malaysia is one of the most prosperous countries in Southeast Asia.
It is the world's leading exporter of tin, rubber and palm oil; it is also a
principal exporter of tropical hardwoods and has significant reserves of oil
and natural gas. By exploiting its rich natural resources, the country
achieved a GNP of about $1,090 per capita in 1978. Moreover, the manufactur-
ing sector, although still small in relation to the rest of the economy, has
registered substantial growth in recent years. The rapid growth of this
sector, and the increased investment by the public sector, have been the main
forces behind the acceleration of the growth rate of GDP from 6% a year during
the 1960s to about 8% in the mid-1970s.



-2-
1.04      Notwithstanding this impressive overall performance, some 37% of the
population in 1978 had annual per capita incomes of less than $270, which is
the estimated income necessary to provide accepted minimum levels of food,
shelter, clothing and other basic needs. Two thirds of those in poverty were
to be found in the agricultural sector, which has developed in a highly
dualistic way, and where the incidence of absolute poverty is almost 50%.
Despite very productive estate agriculture, most households in the sector are
still engaged in low-income, traditional activities on rice and rubber
smallholdings. Another factor which has contributed to this poverty was the
high population growth rate of 3% in the 1960s, which is now reflected in the
current high growth rate of the labor force.
1.05      Malaysian agriculture has a strong comparative advantage in the
cultivation of tropical tree crops which explains the dominance of rubber,
coconut and oil palm. Altogether, 8 million acres have been brought under
cultivation in Peninsular Malaysia, of which almost 6 million are devoted to
rubber and oil palm. Nearly two thirds of this acreage is in smallholdings.
The only other major crop is padi with one million acres. Other crops (each
occupies below 100,000 acres) are pineapple, cocoa, cassava, sugarcane,
tobacco, coffee and groundnuts. Over the past decade and a half, output has
grown strongly - rubber output has expanded by 100% and oil palm by 300%.
Output of rice has expanded by 90% due to improved irrigation and double
cropping, and on average rice imports are now about 10% of domestic
requirements.
1.06      Despite the strong output growth in volume terms, the shift in the
terms of trade has held down the growth in real value added to about 5.5%
p.a., compared with total GDP growth of 7.5%. The agricultural sector has
performed very well by international standards, but it will naturally decline
in relative importance as industrialization proceeds. For the present it
remains extremely important in the overall economy, providing about 29% of
GDP, 44% of employment, and 40% of export earnings in 1978.
C. Government Policy
Problems
1.07      Even though agriculture remains extremely important in the overall
Malaysian economy (and over the past decade its average annual growth rate
of 5.5% in real terms has been among the highest in the world), its dualistic
development has resulted in almost 40% of Malaysia's rural households (25% of
the national population) living in absolute poverty (para. 1.04). As a
consequence, two principal challenges face the Government in the agricultural
sector:



- 3 -
(a) maintaining high growth rates in the sector so that agricultural
incomes can increase in line with those of other sectors of
the economy and thus minimize the number of rural families that will
slip into poverty; and
(b) improving the welfare of the rural poor.
Objectives
1.08      The main objectives of the Government's agricultural policy are:
(a)  to alleviate rural poverty and to redress interregional and
intergroup income disparities;
(b) to increase incomes in agriculture as rapidly as possible;
(c) to maintain a reasonable relationship between agricultural incomes
and incomes earned in other sectors; and
(d) to generate employment opportunities for new entrants to
the rural labor force.
Strategies
1.09      The Government's efforts to pursue these objectives involve the
following five major strategies:
(a) the absorption of surplus and low productivity labor from agri-
culture into more productive jobs in the industrial and service
sectors. To this end, the Government is pursuing a policy of
rapid economic growth and investment in human resources particu-
larly within rural areas;
(b)  new land development in order to generate additional employment
within agriculture at adequate income levels;
(c) increased emphasis on raising productivity and incomes in existing
traditional smallholder agriculture;
(d) increasing transfer payments to rural people if moving them
out of agriculture, or increasing their incomes from agriculture,
is not feasible; and
(e)  increasing export earnings, especially from tree crops, to
finance the industrial and other investments needed to
achieve rapid economic growth.



-4-
Bank Lending Strategy
1.10      Prior to 1975, Bank lending for agriculture was heavily concentrated
in expansion of irrigation and land development as means of expanding output,
raising incomes and creating employment opportunities. To reach more rural
households, greater emphasis has been given since then to programs designed to
raise productivity in existing smallholder areas, such as those for improve-
ment of irrigation and drainage systems, rehabilitation of tree crops,
extension, research and credit. The Bank is directing its current efforts
particularly towards strengthening relevant institutions, such as FELCRA and
Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM), and assisting the Government to prepare and
implement projects that focus on specific areas with a high incidence of
poverty.
2. LAND DEVELOPMENT AND THE ROLE OF FELCRA
A. Background
2.01      Following independence, major emphasis in land policy was placed
on achieving a rapid rate of land development, primarily to create employ-
ment and generate economic growth, and secondarily to settle and develop
major areas unutilized but suitable for agriculture. The Federal Land
Development Authority (FELDA) was established in 1958, taking over a number
of existing State land development schemes. It has concentrated on large-
scale land development and settlement and has been the beneficiary of six
Bank loans. It has, to date, developed about 1.35 million acres of land,
almost entirely to rubber and oil palm. In the early 1970s land development
was the basis of a broader program of regional development focussed on the
eastern States of the Peninsula, and four Regional Development Authorities,
covering a total of 7.5 million acres /1 were established. These statutory
authorities are empowered to plan, coordinate and, in part, execute
development projects in their areas of responsibility, and are under the
general oversight of the Ministry of Land and Regional Development (MLRD).
2.02      Parallel with the establishment of FELDA, in the early 1960s, more
than 500,000 acres of land was alienated by States to groups of individuals
under the Group Land Settlement Act. These schemes usually provided about
3-8 acres of land to local people whose existing land holding was too small
to yield an adequate income. That is, land was provided to supplement
existing income sources. Little assistance was provided to participants and
many schemes were not successful, particularly among Malays who had limited
ability to raise capital. At this time Government was also becoming
increasingly aware of the problems arising from limited holding size and
fragmentation of holdings. Accordingly a Working Committee was established
in 1964 to: "prepare the necessary legislation for the establishment of an
/1 Much of this total is however not suitable for agricultural development.



autonomous agency to carry out the following functions: (a) to
rehabilitate and develop areas embracing fragmented land holdings, fringe
alienation areas, controlled alienation areas and new block planting areas
and/or areas contiguous to or near such areas where uneconomic sized land
holdings predominate; (b) to develop such holdings into efficient producing
units taking into account the need to diversify agriculture, and at the same
time, to give effect thereby to the provision of an adequate income for
farmers; (c) to ensure that the excess population in an area developed by
the Authority is provided with suitable developable or developed land either
through its own efforts in developing adjacent areas or through liaison and
cooperation with FELDA; and (d) to supervise, ad[vise and assist the land
holders after rehabilitation with a view to ensuring that efficient
agricultural practices are followed."
2.03      In this formulation, the proposed new authority would have had land
consolidation as one of its foremost functions. However, the Attorney
General subsequently ruled that such powers, necessary to carry out consoli-
dation might contravene the spirit of the Constitution, and no provision was
made for them in the legislation which established the Federal Land
Consolidation and Rehabilitation Authority (FELCRA). MLRD and the
Attorney General½s office are currently working on revisions to the FELCRA
Act to provide such powers.
2.04      With the expansion of the new land development program in the
early 1970s, emphasis on problems of holding size in existing smallholder
areas was reduced. The employment generated outside agriculture, and by new
land development, has meant a marked slowdown in the growth of numbers of
households primarily dependent upon agriculture in existing smallholder
areas. Definitive data are not available, but in some traditional small-
holder areas these numbers are almost certainly falling. This should be
allowing others to work a larger land holding and thereby increase their
incomes.
2.05      There is, however, increasing evidence that this adjustment process
is not working well. Land abandonment or dereliction is increasingly widely
reported. Data on its extent is not reliable, and estimates of "idle land"
vary from 0.5 to 2 million acres. The problem is not new. Aerial photo-
graphs show it to have started 20 years ago in some areas, but comparisons
with more recent photographs and field surveys show an accelerating trend.
The reasons for this asset rundown appear to be many and varied. They
include, in addition to inadequate economic incentives, traditional
attitudes to land ownership (a desire to hold land even when not utilizing
it), Islamic inheritance customs leading to multiple ownership of
holdings, an overly complex, state-managed land administration system and
administrative and manpower bottlenecks within it, lack of capital by
smallholders with which to improve landed assets or to purchase additional
land, lack of interest because of age, and restrictions on transfer of some
lands. These conditions could encompass about 400,000 households and
1-1.5 million acres of land, i.e., 55-60% of the farm families and 30-40% of



-6-
the smallholder land in Peninsular Malaysia. As a result many padi, rubber
and coconut smallholders continue to operate holdings so small that, even
with the assistance of modern inputs or intensified cultivation, they may
not be able to obtain an income above the poverty line from their holding.
At the same time, as a result of the large land development program which
has been undertaken, significant blocks of land suitable for agricultural
development are becoming scarce and States are increasingly reluctant to
alienate them. There is increasing concern at both Federal and State levels
that development of remaining land, particularly that close to existing
settlements, contributes to improvements in the structure of land holdings.
2.06      Government has become increasingly aware of these problems, although
to date, no clear strategy has been evolved for tackling them. This results
both from their complexity and the multiplicity of ministries and agencies
with potentially overlapping responsibilities in the area. The departments
and agencies of the Ministry of Agriculture are undertaking a range of
programs to expand and strengthen extension services and research support,
improve irrigation facilities, upgrade stands of perennial crops and promote
diversification, e.g., with dairying and cocoa.  The Rubber Industry
Smallholders Development Authority (RISDA) /1 is undertaking similar
programs in rubber.  An attempt is being made to target these efforts in
relatively underdeveloped areas through a series of Integrated Agricultural
Development Projects (IADP). A program of small-scale infrastructural
development, coordinated by the Implementation Coordination Unit (ICU), is
attempting to improve conditions in the nearly 5,000 villages classified by
ICU as having inadequate social and/or physical infrastructure.
2.07      The effectiveness of most of these programs, however, is
constrained by the problems of farm holding size and the poor functioning of
the adjustment mechanism. Tackling land problems in Malaysia is difficult
because land in Malaysia is entirely a State matter, but the Federation has
the right to ensure uniform land legislation and to coordinate land
development. The Constitution provides for the establishment of a National
Land Council (NLC) comprising representatives of the States and of the
Federal Government which can formulate a national policy for the promotion
and control of land use throughout the Federation. However, policies
formulated by NLC cannot be legally enforced, and the Council has not been
active in the past decade.
2.08      Under the Fourth Malaysia Plan (1981-85) Government proposes to
increase the relative emphasis of its land development programs on existing
smallholder agriculture. These programs have three principal objectives;
(a) to create assets (largely in land) for direct benefit of disadvantaged
rural groups; (b) raise the quality and income potential of agricultural
resources; and (c) promote efficient agricultural units. As the only
federal agency which, in principle, has a mandate to engage in land
rehabilitation and development activities in alienated areas, Government
intends to expand FELCRA to enable it to undertake a leading role in this
effort.
/1 A statutory Authority under oversight of the MLRD.



- 7 -
B. FELCRA
Authority
2.09      FELCRA was established under the National Land Rehabilitation and
Consolidation Authority (Incorporation) Act of 1966. It is a statutory
authority under the Ministry of Land and Regional Development. FELCRA's
functions are described in its mandate (FELCRA act 1966 as amended) as:
(a) to rehabilitate or develop state land schemes on its own initiative
and with the approval of the appropriate state authority, or at the
request of the latter; and
(b) to rehabilitate or develop alienated lands, at the request of
the owner(s) and on agreed terms.
Development Models
2.10      Its principal programs to date have been:
(a) Rehabilitation Schemes (40,000 acres). In most instances these
involve rehabilitation of low cost land schemes where State
Government made blocks of land available to groups of individuals.
Typically, each participant obtained a 6-8 acre plot for rubber,
but little or no financial or technical assistance was provided.
When FELCRA is belatedly called in to rehabilitate these schemes,
in most cases it has to clear the secondary jungle or scrub and
replant the area. Each plotholder is charged for the expenditure
incurred. FELCRA now normally operates the rehabilitated scheme
as a group operation. Participants have priority in obtaining
employment on the scheme, in addition to receiving dividends based
on their share of ownership.
(b) Fringe Schemes (72,700 acres). These are aimed at increasing the
basic land resource from which a village derives income and to
supplement the incomes of the participants. A block of land,
normally of 500-1,000 acres and located within 3 miles of low
income villages, is opened up. Participants are selected by the
State Government on the basis of insufficiency of their existing
land resources, family status, age of householder, etc. The
scheme is generally farmed as a group operation under FELCRA
management as above./l
/1 During the Fourth Plan period FELCRA is planning to open up four schemes
of this type for Orang Asli (indigenous tribal groups, generally living
in reserved areas and in a semi-subsistence fashion).



-8-
(c) Youth Schemes (49,000 acres). These are settlement schemes which
cater exclusively to single young male persons selected by State
Governments. It is not planned to initiate any further youth
schemes.
2.11      Based on a group of fringe/rehabilitation schemes in Perak, FELCRA
is now undertaking land development of a large contiguous area, including
development of settlements. Regional development is the principal element
of the Trans-Perak project, to be funded separately by the Bank.
2.12      Because of the limitations of its mandate, FELCRA has not under-
taken formal consolidation programs. However, it is currently initiating a
series of pilot "In situ" Projects, which do address this problem. It is
hoped that these will provide a model which can be applied to a significant
proportion of traditional village agriculture. Under these projects
existing holdings for perennial and mixed crops are pooled and sufficient
additional nearby undeveloped land is cleared and planted with cash crops to
provide a total of at least six acres per household. A new nuclear village
may also be constructed. In addition to standard perennial crops of oil
palm and rubber, a portion of the area is put under crops yielding a quicker
return, e.g., tobacco, pepper, cloves, groundnuts, cocoa. Assistance is
also provided to maintain food cropping, in order to enhance nutritional
levels.
Funding
2.13      FELCRA obtains funds in the form of both grants and loans.  Expen-
ditures directly attributable to its schemes, i.e., for land clearing,
planting, crop maintenance to maturity, and settler housing where necessary,
are funded by loans from the Treasury. A separate loan is obtained for each
scheme, its amount determined by FELCRA's cash flow projection for the scheme.
These loans are repaid by settlers from the income generated by the scheme.
FELCRA's administrative costs for staffing, including capital costs for staff
housing, office facilities, vehicles and equipment are met through Federal
Government grants. It also receives 10% of the net profits of its producing
schemes./l Accumulated expenditure on land development to the end of 1979 was
$74 million ($15 million in 1979). Administrative costs have risen from
$2.2 million in 1974 to $6.8 million in 1979.
Program
2.14      Up to and including its 1980 program, FELCRA will have initiated
development of 163,000 acres, of which 20,000 acres were started in 1979 and
30,000 in 1980. Except for small areas of padi and pepper this development
has been based on oil palm and rubber and has been distributed as follows:



- 9 -
Rubber   Oil palm   Oth,ers      Total
------------- (acres) --------------
Rehabilitation      31,000      6,900      2,100    40,000
Fringe              52,000    17,500       3,200    72,700
Youth               21,500    27,500           -    49,000
In-situ              1,500          -          -     1,500
Total            106,000    51,900      5,300   163,200
A target of about 124,000 acres for land development by FELCRA during the
Fourth Malaysia Plan (1981-85) has been provisionally agreed, distributed as
follows:
Rehabilitation            -   35,400 acres
Fringe                    -   48,800 acres
Regional development /1  -   32,200 acres
Other                     -    7,500 acres
Six in situ pilot projects are included in the 7,500 acres of other projects,
which also includes completion of two youth schemes. In addition to this
program it is anticipated that FELCRA will also undertake a further 17,000
acres of development towards the end of the Plan period, principally in
"'security" areas and possible larger scale replication of the in situ
concept.
Organization, Management and Operations
2.15      Since its inception in 1967, FELCRA has been an effective land
development agency. It has generally achieved established development
targets and resulted in significant improvement in the financial position of
its scheme participants. After a period of slow development in the first
half of the past decade, its pace of activity has increased markedly since
1976. Its rate of land development has averaged nearly 25,000 acres in the
last two years. While it has a good basis for continued growth, an expan-
sion program of the magnitude proposed will strain its resources. A staff
increase of almost 100% would be implied, and strengthening is essential in
areas such as organization and management, training, scheme planning,
technical support and financial and management control.
/1 Principally the Trans-Perak project (para. 2.11).



- 10 -
2.16      Organization.  Supervision of FELCRA operations is in the hands of
a Board of Directors who are appointed by the Minister of Land and Regional
Development. Operations are directed by a Director General, who is also
appointed by the Minister./l Field operations are in the hands of the Dep-
uty Director General, while staff and support functions /2 are the responsi-
bility of Directors of Finance and Administration (see Chart 22021). The
existing structure has resulted in grouping of dissimilar functions, some
maldistribution of workloads, and centralization of decision-making.
FELCRA's development program has now reached the stage at which the case for
structural expansion and a decentralization of qualified technical staff is
strong.
2.17      Management.  FELCRA's current management is lean and stretched
thin. At the senior levels, the Authority is understaffed, with a total
complement of only 9. This provides one senior management person per
18,000 + acres, compared for example to 1 per 9,500 acres for FELDA.
Because of the relative inexperience of junior field staff and the nature of
its schemes, FELCRA has a high rate of staffing at junior levels and its
ratio of senior management/all personnel is extremely unfavorable. Existing
senior management is pressed to carry the expanding and diverse work load,
and an increase of 15 or more in senior management will be required. As a
basis for undertaking this growth, an organizational structure geared to the
expanded operations and an appropriate personnel development program would
be required, supplemented by significant external recruitment of all levels.
Since this kind of staff is also sought by the private sector, FELCRA's
public service salaries have made it difficult to attract and retain high
calibre staff.
2.18      Training.  A training officer, under the direction of the head of
Personnel, is responsible for coordinating FELCRA's training activities. The
training officer is handicapped by his lack of experience in training and the
impossibility of one person organizing meaningful training programs for such a
large number of specialized staff located all over the country. Because of
its current expansion and pressure on staff, there is an understandable
reluctance on the part of management to release key people for training
activities. As a result, structured in-service training has not taken place.
External training arrangements for entry level personnel have not been
satisfactory and a large number have not been formally trained. This latter
problem is most acute among scheme level supervisory staff and will be
intensified as the program of in situ projects, with its emphasis on
agricultural activities other than rubber and oil palm, is expanded. This
will also place considerable additional demands on the agricultural staff
/1 The current Director General is a seconded Malaysian civil service
officer, but this is not mandatory.
(2 F_mc.e,t kudit and Sectetar"'s DemartNenats wh-icAh reort tectIy to the
Director General.



- 11 -
which is already understrength, and whose experience is lar ely limited to
rubber and oil palm. FELCRA's existing operations and staff are adequate to
justify an in-house training and staff development capability, and a compre-
hensive program of training activities. The planned expansion in operations
staff numbers by 1985 makes the case for systematic and quality agency
training all the more compelling.
2.19      Field Operations.  To date reasonably tight supervisory control of
field operations has been maintained through routine and regular written
reporting and staff review meetings. However, the growth and increased range
of operations is making these standards increasingly difficult to maintain.
Further, the existing procedures and staff constraints have not permitted
effective analysis of field experience to be undertakren. A consulting firm
was hired in 1979 to recommend an appropriate managi.,nent information system
for FELCRA's future needs.  A computerized accounti-g and management
information system (MIS) was recommended, which sh ild provide greatly
improved monitoring and budgetary control. FELCRA will require continued
assistance to recruit and train staff, and to install and develop the
proposed system.
2.20      Financial Management.   FELCRA's existi-ng accounting system was
set up in 1973. While it has served FELCRA's needs adequately to date, it
was not designed to provide current and detailed management information.
With the increasing scope and complexity of FELCRA's operations, the need
for such improvement becomes increasingly critical for both financial and
physical information. One area of potential concern is in scheme loan
recovery, where there are reported arrears. These have largely resulted from
unrealistic repayment schedules set up when early schemes were established.
More realistic repaymernt sched-les were adopted in 1975, when the problem
became apparent, but were not made retroactive. Computation of scheme loan
debt is potentially misleading and together with the obsolete repayment
schedules has hindered any meaningful analysis of the loan recovery position.
2.21      Accounts.  The consultant's MIS study did not review the format of
FELCRA's basic accounting statement. This has a number of significant short-
comings as a description of FELCRA's activities and condition. FELCRA's
Income and Expenditure Statement covers only those activities directly fun-
ded by Government's administrative grant. Many other income and expense
items, originating from loan activities, are only included as supporting or
explanatory information in the Balance Sheet, which as a result is somewhat
unconventional in format and content. Neither the accounts nor the budget
classifications are in sufficient detail to permit detailed comparison of
income and expense with budget anticipations. File data are generally
available to permit such analysis, but the time constraints would be substan-
tial under the existing mechanical systems. Improvements in the classifica-
tion and organization of financial statements are needed to make them more
descriptive of the results of FELCRA's operations and more useful as a
management tool.



- 12 -
2.22      Scheme Selection and  Planning.  Understaffing at the professional
level currently restricts FELCRA's capacity to carry out adequate scheme
planning. Potential fringe or rehabilitation projects are proposed to FELCRA
by State Governments. The Planning Section of the Budget and Planning
Department prepares a brief scheme feasibility report which includes data on
soils and crops suitability (supplied by the Department of Agriculture),
statement of clearances from relevant departments, and a brief on-site
inspection by FELCRA staff to assess accessibility, slope and any major
constraints to development. On this basis the choice of crop (rubber or oil
palm) is made, and a cash flow, based largely on standard costs, yields and
prices, is prepared. Scheme feasibility reports fulfill minimum requirements
of the Treasury for obtaining loan funds, but require some elaborations in
providing information required for effective implementation. Problems have
arisen in a number of schemes which could have been avoided or reduced if
more detailed initial investigation could have been undertaken. This need is
especially necessary when subsequent field work is being supervised by
relatively inexperienced field staff. The existing feasibility reports also
provide little information on the economic and social conditions of the area
from which the participants are expected to be drawn.
2.23      Formal monitoring and evaluation of scheme development has been
limited. This problem would be alleviated by the proposed management infor-
mation system, although expertise will be needed to analyze this data if the
system is to be effectively utilized. Several other vital areas of opera-
tional and corporate planning are not currently included in the functions of
the planning section, e.g., long-term planning and projections, special
studies, post-evaluation, and procedural reviews and related activities.
3. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01      The Bank has assisted the Government in financing, under the aus-
pices of FELDA, a series of six land settlement projects based on perennial
crops which, on completion, will have developed a total of about 320,000
acres, principally to rubber and oil palm. FELDA itself has developed a
total of 1.3 million acres over the past two decades, and undertaken almost
one half of all land development in Peninsular Malaysia over this period.
The availability of land for further new large scale settlement in Peninsular
Malaysia is limited, but about half of the households in traditional village
agriculture remain in poverty. Government has indicated that it intends to
strengthen and expand FELCRA to enable it to undertake a principal role in
tackling the problems of limited holding size and underutilization of land in
smallholder agriculture, through rehabilitation of crop land (especially in
Stv>e-s% osore~d lantd schemaes) , contsolidation, and development of fringe land
areas to supplement existing holdings.



- 13 -
3.02      The project would directly increase the incomes of about 12,000
rural households through land rehabilitation and dlevelopment schemes. In
order to carry out this program, the objective of the proposed project is to
strengthen FELCRA's capability to plan and implement smallholder improvement
projects. As a consequence it would assist in the elaboration of alterna-
tive approaches to development of kampong agriculture and sharpen the focus
of FELCRA's program in this area.
B. Brief Description
:3.03     The main features of the project are:
(a)  financing of the fringe and rehabilitation scheme elements of
FELCRA's Fourth Plan Program, covering the development of about
50 proposed fringe schemes and the rehabilitation of about 40 exist-
ing unassisted land development schemes, extending to a total of
about 84,000 acres and including:
(i) development of about 64,000 acres for rubber and 20,000 acres
for oil palm;
(ii)  construction of housing for staff and provision of basic
infrastructure, including about 112 miles of all-weather
access roads;
(iii) procurement of vehicles and equipment for scheme development
and maintenance; and
(iv)  construction of two palm oil mills with a combined capacity
of about 80 tons ffb/hr; and
(b) strengthening of FELCRA's capability to implement this program
through:
(i) rationalization of FELCRA's organization, with decentralization
of operational activities and streamlining of head office
structure;
(ii)  establishment of a Training and Staff Development Unit and
development and implementation of a training program for all
levels of staff;
(iii) establishment of a Program Development and Evaluation
Department;
(iv)  introduction of a computerized management information
system; and



- 14 -
(v) provision of consultancy services for detailed design of
project processing facilities, technical assistance to the
training and evaluation units, implementation of a proposed
management information and accounting system, diversification
activities, evaluation of existing projects, preparation of
future projects, and related studies.
C. Detailed Features
Project Areas
3.04      The rehabilitation and fringe schemes included in the proposed
program are located in all the States of Peninsular Malaysia, except Selangor
and Penang. However, 75% of the area is located in the lower income,
relatively underdeveloped States of Kedah, Kelantan, Trengganu and Pahang
(see Table 3.1). This represents a significant shift in the focus of
FELCRA's activities towards these states, which have accounted for only 41%
of the land developed up to 1980 (see Map 15400). The schemes have been
largely selected at the initiative of the relevant State Governments. The
individual schemes beyond 1981 remain provisional, however, pending a review
of their feasibility by FELCRA (see para. 4.14).
Table 3.1: DISTRIBUTION OF LAND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
BY TYPE OF SCHEME, PROPOSED CROP AND STATE (ACRES)
Type of scheme          Proposed crop
State        Total     Fringe  Rehabilitation    Rubber       Oil palm
Perlis            300        300            _           300            _
Kedah          10,000      9,700          300        10,000             -
Perak          11,300      6,800        4,500         6,500        4,800
Malacca         2,000      2,000            -             -        2,000
N. Sembilan     4,900      4,900            -         4,900            -
Johore          2,100          -        2,100             -        2,100
Pahang         27,900    15,200        12,700        17,000       10,900
Trengganu       9,100      4,400        4,700         9,100            -
Kelantan       16,700      5,600       11,100        16,700            -
TOTAL       84,300    48,900        35,400        64,500       19,800



- 15 -
Land Development
3.05      The phasing of the proposed land development program is shown
in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: PHASING OF LAND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (ACRES)
Year
1981    1982    1983    1984      1985    Total
Type of Scheme
Fringe               9,500   15,600  12,300   6,000   5,500   48,900
Rehabilitation      10,300    4,200   5,000   8,100   7,800   35,400
Subtotal        19,800   19,800  17,300  14,100  13,300   84,300
Type of Crop
Rubber              11,500   16,600  15,300  10,900  10,200   64,500
Oil palm             8,300    3,200   2,000   3,200   3,100   19,800
Subtotal        19,800   19,800  17,300  14,100  13,300   84,300
Historically, FELCRA rubber schemes have had a net planted area of 89% of the
gross area and oil palm schemes have obtained 95% land utilization. These
relationships have proved stable over time and it is therefore estimated that
the net planted area under the project will be about 57,300 acres of rubber
and 17,900 acres of oil palm. Because of the condition of most "rehabilita-
tion" schemes when FELCRA takes over, land clearance and new planting is
assumed to be necessary (see para. 2.10). Initial land clearance, prepara-
tion, planting and maintenance, covering a total of two years would be
carried out by contractors working under FELCRA's supervision at an average
cost of $424 per acre for rubber and $315 per acre for oil palm. Subsequent
maintenance work during the immature period, costing $402 per acre for rubber
and $344 per acre for oil palm, would be carried out by contractors or by use
of casual labor, predominantly scheme participants or their dependents,
employed directly by FELCRA. Planting materials, fertilizers, chemicals and
other supplies to the value of $217 per acre for rubber and $306 per acre for
oil palm would be procured directly by FELCRA.
3.06      Agricultural access tracks totalling 1.2 chains per acre for rubber
schemes and 1.5 chains per acre for oil palm would be initially marked out by
the major clearance contractor. For oil palm, these agricultural tracks would
be upgraded to all weather standard by contractors, with a 4 inch surface of
laterite 8 ft wide. Culverts constructed of concrete and reinforced spun pipe



- 16 -
would be provided as necessary. Total cost is estimated at $116 per acre. On
rubber schemes agricultural tracks would be upgraded in the third year after
planting, with construction of culverts, and provision of a laterite surface
on about 10% of the network which would be most heavily utilized. This work
would be carried out by contractors at an estimated cost of $65 per acre.
Minor road maintenance would be carried out directly by FELCRA utilizing the
agency's own equipment and labor. Small field drains, averaging 1.33 chains
per acre for rubber and 2.0 per acre for oil palm would also be constructed
by contractor at an estimated cost of $14 per chain.
Scheme Infrastructure
3.07      Buildings.  Each scheme would be provided with an office, incor-
porating a small lock-up store and a garage, and with housing for permanent
FELCRA staff. This would comprise a total of 88 scheme offices and 560 staff
houses, which would be of predominantly wooden construction, and built to
standard designs for these types of accommodations in Malaysia. Site pre-
paration and construction would be carried out by contractors under FELCRA
supervision.
3.08      Access Roads.  A total of about 112 miles of all-weather roads,
each averaging 1.25 miles in length, would be provided from the public
highways to the scheme office sites. These would be designed to minimize
bridging and would be graded and rolled to a 28 ft formation width. For
rubber schemes a 6 in laterite surface 14 ft wide with 5 ft compacted
shoulders would be provided at a total estimated cost of $53,000 per mile.
For oil palm schemes, where more frequent truck traffic must be accommodated,
an 18 ft laterite surface would be provided at a cost of $61,000 per mile.
Access road design and supervision of construction would be carried out by
FELCRA in coordination with the Public Works Department (PWD).
3.09      Water Supply.  Each scheme would be provided with a treated water
supply. Where the public water supply (operated in rural areas by the PWD)
is accessible within about three quarters of a mile, direct connection would
be made by PWD, at an average of cost of $14,000 per scheme. An estimated
40% of schemes would be supplied in this way. The remainder would be
supplied by pumping from a stream or well. Water would be treated and
pumped to a small elevated tank for distribution. The estimated cost to
supply a typical scheme of 1,000 acres is $15,500. Design and supervision
of construction of these small systems would be by FELCRA.
3.10      Electricity.  All staff quarters and offices in FELCRA schemes
would be supplied with electricity. About 25% of scheme offices would be
located within about one mile of an accessible grid service, and these would
be directly connected by the National Electricity Board (NEB). On the bal-
ance of schemes FELCRA would install a diesel generator of between 12.5 kVA
($12,500) and 25 kVA ($18,000), depending on size of scheme.
3~ .11    qe3L\IIees and Eqvamx?et. Each sc3eaae wOUcv1 'be l?rovi4e4 with a f our-
wheel drive vehicle. FELCRA will review the utilization of its existing



- 17 -
t:ractor fleet with a view to improving its distribution. It is estimated that
approximately 37 could be released to be available for use on new schemes. A
further 78 tractors, equipped with 3-ton trailers, would be required to meet
t:he total needs of the approximately 90 schemes in the project. A total of 10
t:ractor-mounted road graders for minor road maintenance would be provided,
based on one unit per oil palm scheme of over 1,000 acres and per rubber
scheme of over 2,000 acres. These graders would also be utilized for mainte-
uiance purposes on other schemes in their vicinity. On a similar basis a total
of ten 8-ton trucks would be provided for the larger schemes.
Processing Facilities
3.12      Two palm oil mills would be constructed as follows:
Capacity      Area to be          Completion
Location              tons/hr     serviced (acres'          date
Bukit Kepong, Johore      40           15,000              1983
Nasaruddin, Perak         40           13,330              1983 /a
/a First phase.
The Bukit Kepong mill would be located in North Johore and service existing
FELCRA schemes, predominantly within a 40 mile radius, which are already com-
ing into production. The Nasaruddin mill in Perak would also serve schemes
already under development, including initial production from the Trans-Perak
project, for which a mill is scheduled for completion in 1986. The Nasaruddin
mill would be constructed in two phases, the first of 20 ton/hr capacity to be
completed in 1983, and the second in 1985. The mills would be constructed to
standard specifications which are now well established in Malaysia. They
would be equipped with appropriate effluent treatment, as required by law, and
be located at least 3 km from significant settlements. Mill design and super-
vision of construction would be undertaken by local consultants on a lump sum
contract of about $320,000, or about 3% of project cost.
Institution Building
3.13      Under the proposed project FELCRA would be substantially expanded
and strengthened. Specifically the project would:
(a) replace the existing single Deputy Director General by two
Deputies for Administration and Operations respectively, and
rationalize headquarters structure, and clarify responsibilities,
by creating six additional departments, to provide a total of
nine departmental units;



- 18 -
(b)  create five regional offices,/l headed by Director-level officers.
These would be responsible for technical and managerial super-
vision of field operations and would be provided with qualified
engineers and agriculturalists;
(c)  create a Program Development and Evaluation Department which would
incorporate an expanded Scheme Feasibility Studies Section, and a
new Evaluation and Special Studies Section, supported by an
internationally recruited senior planning adviser and additional
short-term consultancies;
(d)  provide funds to engage consultants to program the proposed
management information and accounting system for computer operation
(incorporating settler accounts), implement this system for a
period of two years, and train FELCRA staff in its operation.
FELCRA's own staff would be augmented with an individual qualified
in data processing;
(e)  establish a Training and Staff Development Unit at headquarters,
supported by an internationally recruited training adviser;
(f)  establish a small engineering design unit within the Engineering
Department;
(g)  upgrade the Agriculture Division to departmental status and provide
consultancy support to cover possible diversification activities.
3.14      Training.  A Training and Staff Development Unit (TSDU) would be
created at FELCRA headquarters. The TSDU would be supported by a Training and
Staff Development Adviser for a period of 36 months to help design, plan and
supervise a dynamic and practical training program and to create an opportu-
nity for the present head of the training unit and his assistant to acquire
advanced training skills. An agency-oriented management training program
would be designed and conducted at the FELDA Institute of Land Development,
Trolak, by two management instructors seconded to the Institute from FELCRA.
This program would place particular emphasis on the needs of supervisory field
staff. Entry level training for Field Assistants (FA) and in-service courses
for staff from a variety of specializations would be conducted at Lekir--a
refurbished youth scheme headquarters in Perak. The training needs of FELCRA
settlers and their dependents would be identified and, in cooperation with the
Settler Development Department, training opportunities offered on a carefully
planned basis.
3.15      In addition to entry level training, the proposed project would
provide for in-service training for FELCRA staff at an estimated cost of $23
11  One serving Mast 'Valaaysia.



- 19 -
per staff member per year. Additional short courses in Malaysia and
overseas would be undertaken. The exact number of trainees is difficult to
estimate but the estimated cost of $210,000 is based on the assumption that
a total of 20 courses per year would be undertaken. Provision would also be
made for teaching aids (including books) and equipment to a total of
$93,000, 25% of which would be to expand or establish small reference
libraries at scheme and regional offices.
3.16      Technical Assistance.  The technical assistance component of the
project is designed to overcome gaps in FELCRA's capacity to manage its rapid
growth. This assistance is expected to require about 155 man-months of pro-
fessional expertise at a total cost of about $1.1 million. The overall aver-
age man-month cost (including individual fees, travel and local allowances) is
expected to be about $7,200. An internationally recruited Senior Planning
Adviser would provide 48 man-months of assistance to the Program Development
and Evaluation Department. He would, with the Director, work to expand the
coverage of the scheme feasibility reports, and establish a program of
evaluation and other studies aimed at sharpening the focus and improving
targetting of FELCRA's future program of activities. The Department would
also be supported by a total of 24 manmonths of assistance in specialist areas
such as sociology, research methodology, and land tenure. The latter would
assist in elaborating alternative models for tackling the problems of
traditional village agriculture and in developing pilot schemes of types which
appeared operationally and legally feasible. A suitably qualified consultant
reporting to the head of the TSDU would be appointed to provide 36 man-months
of expertise in the design and implementation of field and management training
courses, and of an overall personnel development program for FELCRA.  The
estimated cost of these internationally recruited consultants of $8,000 per
man-month is based on individual salary, international travel and allowances.
Assurances were obtained that suitably qualified and experienced individuals
would be employed as Senior Planning Adviser and Training and Staff
Development Adviser by December 31, 1981.
3.17      The project would also fund about 36 man-months of local consultant
services to implement the proposed management information system at an
estimated cost of $130,000. Since FELCRA does not have personnel experienced
in computer systems, it is proposed to engage an experienced computer manage-
ment consultant for about five man-months, spread over two years, to assess
tender proposals for the principal consultancy and to monitor implementation.
Similarly a local oil palm processing specialist would be retained for about
six man-months to review the work of the consultants undertaking the design
and construction of the oil palm mills, and to supervise mill commissioning
and initial operation. The project would also provide for 36 man-months of
consultancy services in finance, management and accounting, and in other
short-term requirements in areas such as diversification activities. These
would be recruited at an estimated cost of $5,300 per man-month including
salary, fees, local travel, and allowances.



- 20 -
3.18      A series of studies are proposed to analyze current settler selec-
tion criteria, evaluate selected schemes in production, and prepare projects
incorporating alternative approaches to holding size enlargement. The project
would provide $600,000 to finance field surveys and specific consultancy
services for this purpose.
D. Implementation Schedule
3.19      The land development and perennial crop planting program which
would be implemented over a 5-year period commencing in the third quarter of
CY1980. The total development period for the schemes included in the
project would be 12 years, reflecting the long gestation period for rubber.
E.  Project Cost
3.20      Total project costs are estimated at $139.1 million (inclusive of
taxes and duties of $6.1 million) of which $37.0 million or 27% is foreign
exchange cost.  Project costs are based on unit prices in Malaysia in third
quarter 1980 and are indexed.to a common level, March 1981.  Physical con-
tingencies have been included amounting to 10% for agricultural development,
vehicles and equipment, oil palm mill construction, management and consul-
tancies, and 20% for civil works, including site works and access roads for
oil palm mills. Overall, physical contingencies represent 12.8% of base
cost. The contingency due to expected price increases over the implementa-
tion period amounts to about 20.8% of base cost plus physical contingencies
assuming cost escalation of 9.0% in 1981, 8.5% in 1982, 7.5% in 1983-85.
3.21      Project cost details are presented in Annex 1, Table 10 and are
summarized in Table 3.3.
F. Financing
3.22      The proposed Bank loan of $37.0 million would finance the full
foreign exchange costs of the project, equivalent to 28% of project costs,
exclusive of taxes and duties. The Government would provide $58.2 million
(42% of project cost) in the form of loans to FELCRA for construction of
processing facilities, and for onlending to schemes to finance field
development, and $43.9 million in the form of budgetary allocations for
funding of infrastructure and project management. A detailed financing plan
is presented in Annex 1, Table 11 and summarized in Table 3.4.



Table 3.3   PROJECT COST
X of   Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total    base   exchange
Component                          -      (Ivi$ million) ----            million) -----    cost         %
A- Agricultural Development
Rubber                        62.48   18.04    80.52   29.06        8.39      37.45    37        22
Oil palm                      25.23    7.76    32.99   11.74        3.61      15.35    15        24
Subtotal                  87.71   25.80   113.51   40.80    12.00         52.80    52        23
B.  Infrastructure                  22.01   11.00    33.01   10.23         5.12      15.35    15       33
C.  Vehicles and equipment            1.49    5.99      7.48    0.69       2.79       3.48      3      80
D.  Processing facilities            10.43   10.44    20.87    4.85        4.86       9.71    10       50
E-  Training                          2.96    1.32      4.28    1.38       0.61       1.99      2      31
F. Management
Salaries and overheads        34.77    2.06    36.83   16.17        0.96      17.13    17         6
Technical assistance and       1.29    1.98       3.27    0.60      0.92       1.52      1       61
consultanci es
Subtotal                  36.06    4.04    40.10   16.77        1.88      18.65    18        10
Total Base Cost          160.68   58.59   219.27   74.72    27.26    101.98   100            27
Physical contingencies          18.43    6.80    25.23    8.56        3.17       11.73    12       27
Price contingencies             40.40   14.15    54.55   18.80        6.57      25.37              26
Total Project Cost       219.51   79.54   299.05  102.08    37.00    139.08                  27



- 22 -
Table 3.4: FINANCING PLAN
Federal Government
Grants          Loan            Bank
Amount         Amount          Amount          Total
Component                           ($ m)    %    ($ m)    %    ($ m)    %    ($ m)
A. Agricultural Development
Rubber                            -      -   24.76    67   12.69    33   37.45
Oil palm                          -      -   11.41    71    3.94    29   15.35
Subtotal                        -      -   36.17    69   16.63    31   52.80
B.  Infrastructure                  10.87    71         _      -    4.48    29   15.35
C.  Vehicles and equipment            1.39    40         -     -    2.09    60    3.48
D.  Processing facilities                -      -    6.31    65    3.40    35    9.71
E.  Training                          1.58    79         -     -    0.41    21    1.99
F. Management
Salaries and overheads        17.13   100         -     -        -      -   17.13
Technical assistance and
consultancies                0.30    20         -     -    1.22    80    1.52
Subtotal                 17.43    93         -      -    1.22       7   18.65
Total base cost          31.27    31   42.48    42   28.23    27  101.98
Physical contingencies           4.17    36    4.69    39    2.87    25   11.73
Price contingencies              8.41    32   11.06    44    5.90    24   25.37
Total financing          43.85    31   58.23    42   37.00    27  139.08



- 23 -
3.23      The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.  The Govern-
ment, in the context of its plans for the next 5--year development period, has
established a concessionary lending policy for the public agencies involved.
Specifically, as of January 1, 1981, the policy is to make available central
government funds to public agencies for poverty eradication efforts without
interest charges, but to charge between 2-4% interest per annum when the funds
are to be used for activities to accelerate the development of indigenous
Malaysians, and to continue to charge market rates for commercial endeavors.
Under the proposed project, funds for scheme development would be provided to
FELCRA interest free and be repayable over 10 years, following a grace period
of 10 years for rubber and 8 years for oil palm. This is acceptable since the
project has a strong anti-poverty bias and allows reasonable levels of cost
recovery (see Chapter 6 below). The level of interest rate subsidy is not
substantial since the rate of inflation has traditionally been low in
Malaysia, averaging below 5% over the past three years, and is expected to
remain near that level. Assurances were obtained that the proceeds of the
loan would be made available to FELCRA under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank.
G. Procurement
3.24      Vehicles (amounting to about $4 million) would be procured under
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
A 15% preference margin, or the prevailing customs duty if lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers of these items. Small items and urgent
requirements, not exceeding $800,000 in aggregate, would be procured by
limited local tendering in accordance with Government procedures. Materials
for agricultural development would be procured by local competitive bidding.
There are numerous suppliers, foreign firms are well represented and
competition is adequate.
3.25      Oil palm mill construction (costing about $12.5 million) would be
subject to international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. Land development ($57 million) and other civil works ($19 mil-
lion) would be relatively small for most of the subprojects, and widely
scattered. The latter would include offices, staff housing, short access
roads and water supply systems. Steps have been taken in recent years to
strengthen local land development and civil works contractors; there is
adequate competition and foreign firms can participate. Therefore, competi-
tive bidding in accordance with local procedures is appropriate for the work
to be executed under contract.
H. Disbursement
3.26      The disbursement of the loan proceeds would be as follows:
(a) land development works (land clearance, planting, and initial
maintenance): 50% of contractual expenditure.



- 24 -
(b)  construction of palm oil mills, scheme access roads and buildings:
35% of contractual expenditure.
(c)  vehicles and equipment: 60% of delivered cost or 100% of foreign
costs against normal documents, or 100% of local expenditures.
(d)  consultant services:  80% of total cost of Bank approved items or
programs, against normal documents.
3.27      Disbursement of the Bank loan would be against import documenta-
tion, and contracts.  It is expected that disbursements would be completed
by December 31, 1986, approximately 12 months after the end of the project
period. The proposed project would provide $3.0 million in retroactive
financing to cover expenditures incurred after October 1, 1980, on
consultancies and on activities required as part of the 1981 planting
program. A semi-annual disbursement schedule is given in Annex 1, Table 12.
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization
4.01      Overall responsibility for the implementation of the proposed
project would rest with FELCRA. Since the project represents a major portion
of FELCRA's land development program for the 1981-85 period, the Director
General of FELCRA would be responsible for day-to-day implementation of the
project, and no specific institutional unit would be established for this
purpose.  FELCRA would be responsible for all land development activities,
construction of scheme access roads and buildings, and construction of the
palm oil mills.  Where water is to be obtained from the public supply,
additional mains would be constructed by the PWD.  Similarly the NEB would
construct supply lines to the grid.  Where individual water supply or
electricity generators are to be installed, FELCRA would carry out design
and supervise construction.
Scheme Operation
4.02      FELCRA would continue its present method of scheme operation.
Land required for schemes is made available to FELCRA for rehabilitation or
development through formal agreements in standard form between FELCRA and
State authorities. The land is vested in FELCRA until such time as it
withdraws from operation of the scheme after development costs have been
recovered from participants, when it is to be revested in the State
Authority. Participants sign individual declarations of consent allowing
FELCRA to "take over" their land and agreeing to abide by all conditions of
the scheme.  Scheme management would be by a scheme waxat    Lc-   g



- 25 -
FELCRA (or a supervisor for schemes of less than 500 acres) supported by a
supervisor per 1,000 acres and a field assistant for each 400 acres. Land
clearance, preparation, planting of the perennial crop and initial mainte-
nance for a year after planting would be undertaken by contractors. FELCRA
normally stipulates that the settlers receive preference in hiring, and an
attempt would be made to have more than half of employment on a scheme be of
settlers or their dependents. FELCRA would purchase, or otherwise supply,
required inputs for agricultural development, e.g., planting material and
fertilizers. Subsequent maintenance, upgrading of field access roads, etc.
would also be undertaken by contractor or for smaller tasks, by casual labor
hired directly by FELCRA. Construction of scheme infrastructure, access
roads, water supply (unless main supply is utilized), office and staff
housing would be carried out by contractors.
4.03      When the scheme comes into production, harvesting would be carried
out by hired labor under the supervision of scheme management. Preference
would again be given to settlers or their dependents in hiring for such work,
and appropriate training would be provided, e.g., for rubber tapping, oil palm
harvesting. Labor hired for work on the scheme, whether or not they were
settlers, would be paid the market wage. Settlers would also receive a
dividend based upon the surplus generated by the scheme, after provision for
repayment of the loan covering field development costs.
B. FELCRA Organization
4.04      FELCRA's existing organizational structure is not yet adequate to
undertake the expanded program of activities proposed for the Fourth Malaysia
Plan period (para. 2.15). Existing senior management has a wide range of
responsibilities and are pressed to carry the expanding and diverse work load.
TJnder the project an expanded organization structure would be established,
which would group functions of similar characteristics and spread senior
management work loads in an equitable manner. The proposed structure is
illustrated in Chart 22423.
4.05      The basis of the organization would be the creation of two divisions
each headed by a Deputy Director General. Firstly, an Operations Division
comprising three Departments: Agricultural Services, Engineering, and Settler
Development.  Secondly, an Administration Division, made up of five Depart-
ments: Management Services, Finance, Personnel and Training, Program Develop-
ment and Evaluation, and Data Processing. In addition, a new Marketing and
Processing Department would report directly to the Director General.
4.06      Operations Division.  Under the proposed organization, Settler
Development and Agricultural Services would be elevated to Departmental status
and each headed by a Director. In addition to its inspectorate and servicing
functions the Agriculture Department would contain a special unit responsible
for the in situ pilot projects. The Department would also maintain agricul-
tural technical staff in the proposed regional offices. Similarly, the



- 26 -
Engineering Department would post engineers to the regions, and at
headquarters the Department would create a Design Unit to be responsible for
engineering and design of all infrastructural works to be carried out by
FELCRA.
4.07      Four regional offices would be established in Peninsular Malaysia,
together with a separate unit to manage the Trans-Perak Project. Each
regional office would be administered by a Regional Controller who would
report to the Director General. The Regional Controller would be supported in
a staff role by an Agricultural Officer, Settler Development Officer, an Audit
Examiner, a Marketing Inspector, an Engineer (supported in turn by Technical
and Survey Assistants). The State FELCRA officer would then report to the
Regional Controller (see Chart 22223). This decentralized structure is
predicated upon two needs arising from FELCRA's activities. By the end of the
FMP it will have about 300,000 acres and 250 schemes under its control,
scattered throughout Peninsular Malaysia. Given the diverse nature of the
areas being developed, and the widening scope of activities being undertaken
by FELCRA, there is increased need for adequate, accessible technical back-up
to field managers. But, the size of field operations in most States and
staffing limititations do not justify decentralization of technical staff to
the state level. However, maintenance of state level offices is desirable
because of the need for close liaison with State Governments on scheme and
settler selection.
4.08      Administration Division.  Three additional departments would be
created under the Deputy Director General: Data Processing, Program Develop-
ment and Evaluation, and Personnel and Training. The existing planning and
budget staff would be split, with the Planning Section forming the nucleus of
the proposed Program Development and Evaluation Department, and the Budget
Section combined with the accounts staff to form an expanded Finance
Department.
4.09      At headquarters a Training and Staff Development Unit (TSDU) would
be established. This would initially report directly to the Director of
Administration, and be separated from the existing Personnel staff. When a
Personnel and Training Department is created, the TSDU would be incorporated
in it. The TSDU, in addition to being responsible for the day-to-day
operation of the training school, would:
(a) systematically define the training needs of both staff and settlers;
(b) design an overall training and staff development program to meet
those training needs;
(c) identify training resource personnel and institutions within
Malaysia and elsewhere who can assist with the program; and
(d) design and implement a system of training evaluation.



- 27 -
In particular the TSDU would focus on the needs of FELCRA settlers and would
assist the Settler Development Department with a wide range of training
opportunities and instructional and educational support. A network of formal
linkages would be established with national and regional training institutes.
In particular, two management instructors would be seconded to the Institute
of Land Development managed by FELDA. They would draw on the staff and
expertise of the institute to develop and conduct management training courses
designed to meet FELCRA's specific needs.
4.10      Planning.  The Program Development and Evaluation Department would
be based on the Planning Section of the present Planning and Budget staff. It
would be made up of two sections: Scheme Feasibility Studies and Evaluation
andl Special Studies. The Feasibility Studies Section would continue to be
responsible for scheme planning and obtaining the clearances necessary for
actual schemes to proceed. However, the section would be expanded to include
an agriculturalist, and the depth and scope of the scheme feasibility reports
would be improved (see paras. 4.14 et seq.). A new Evaluation and Special
Studies Section would be established. The group would be responsible for
evaluation of scheme development, enquiries into special problems such as
settler selection criteria, regularization and enlargement of farm holdings,
and other appropriate socioeconomic studies, and for procedural reviews to
ensure that performance is in accordance with established policies and
procedures (see paras. 4.23 et seq.).
4.11      Processing and Marketing.  As FELCRA's mills come on stream by mid-
1983, and the volume of production to be processed and marketed increases, it
is proposed that the marketing section and a new processing section be moved
from the Finance Department into a new division under a Director of Marketing
and Processing who would report directly to the Director General. It is also
proposed that the Director then take over responsibility for management of
FELCRA's vehicle fleet and transport activities.
4.12      Staffing.  It is estimated that staff requirements would increase by
almost 100% over the 5-year project period (see Annex 1, Table 6). How-
ever, about 83% of the staff growth would be in the lower grades where re-
cruiting potential remains high. Obtaining suitable and available candidates
through recruitment or promotion for the technical and senior postings will be
more difficult. These include surveyors, engineers, accountants, technical
agricultural classifications, group managers, scheme managers and technical
assistants. Competition for comparable jobs among government agencies has
been largely minimized by efforts of the Public Service Department (PSD) to
standardize salary scales. Although the private sector is generally in a
position to pay higher salaries for senior staff, this differential has been
narrowed by the substantial increase in Government salaries announced in July
L980. The adequacy of employment conditions for all grades of staff will
Lrequire periodic review.
4.13      Assurances were obtained that suitably qualified and experienced
individuals would be appointed as Director of Program Development and Evalua-
tion arid as Regional Controllers by December 31, 1982, and as Deputy Director



- 28 -
General (Administration) by June 30, 1983. The staff build-up shown in Annex
1, Table 6 would lead to the creation of the organization structure shown in
Chart 22423 by the end of the project period.  Creation of posts would be
approved on an annual basis, and flexibility in actual timing of the required
staff build up is desirable.  Assurances were also obtained that FELCRA would
forward to the Bank for review by March 31, 1982, an implementation plan for
organizational strengthening and expansion, incorporating the above proposals,
which would be implemented in consultation with the Government and the Bank.
C. Scheme Development
Scheme Selection
4.14      Fringe Schemes.  These are developed on previously unalienated land,
usually forest covered. They are designed to supplement the holdings of
villagers in the vicinity. Areas are identified by local/state government
officers, and proposed by the State to FELCRA. FELCRA carries out an inves-
tigation of the area and a brief feasibility report is prepared by the Plan-
ning Section of the Planning and Budgeting staff (para. 2.22). This covers
the legal status of the land, its accessibility, adequacy of size of area,
status of adjacent land, technical suitability for rubber or oil palm, an
estimate of the cost of land development, and a projected cash flow for a
20-year period. If the results of this analysis are satisfactory, and if
forestry and mining clearances are obtained, a final decision is made by the
FELCRA Planning Committee. Feasibility reports have been prepared for the 11
fringe schemes on which planting is to begin in the latter half of 1981.
4.15      Under the proposed project these scheme feasibility analyses would
be expanded and strengthened. The revised procedure would be as follows:
(a) initial review of identified areas by FELCRA regional office, to
confirm location and extent of area, determine accessibility and
probable suitability for rubber or oil palm (or other crops
if appropriate);
(b) preparation of background report by FELCRA Feasibility Study
Division on area within about seven miles of the proposed scheme,
based on the national village survey, land use and suitability maps
and supplementary sources, indicating:
(i)  status of surrounding villages, e.g., population, age
structure, economic activity, incomes, and level of provision
of public infrastructure and services;
(ii)  land use and suitability, e.g., existing land use and owner-
ship (i.e., smallholders, estates, public schemes), and
availability of other unalienated land suitable for cropping.



- 29 -
(iii) other development projects being undertaken in the area.
Based on this review an assesssment would be made of the degree of
deprivation in the area, the potential scope for selecting the
desired number of participants within a limited catchment area, and
possible recommendations on more specific targetting of participant
selection (e.g., to specific land-poor or disadvantaged villages);
(c)  based on the outcome of (b), and utilizing the soil survey report
of the Department of Agriculture, preparation of preliminary
feasibility report, including cost estimates and economic
analysis, on the basis of which the Director of Program
Development would determine priority schemes and arrange schedules
of field visits by feasibility studies team;
(d)  field visits by staff of Feasibility Studies Section, including an
agriculturalist, on basis of which FELCRA would produce a final
Feasibility Report, incorporating a preliminary scheme development
plan at a scale of 1:25,000 or larger, indicating access, possible
office site and including recommendations on potential source of
settlers;
(e)  review and agreement with State Government on nature of scheme and
participant selection. Submission of Feasibility Report to
Treasury with request for loan funding; and
(f)  following land clearance and burning, follow-up field inspection
by planning team and technical staff from regional office to
confirm cost estimates, soil and other site conditions and
location of office, etc., prepare field road layout and
recommendations on planting materials, etc., and prepare revised
budget.
4.16      Schemes would be selected for inclusion in the project on the basis
of their economic viability. Assurances were obtained that the schemes to be
developed under the project would yield an economic rate of return of 10% or
more and that FELCRA would forward to the Bank full feasibility reports for
individual schemes extending to over 1,500 acres (involving investment in
excess of about $2 million). Reports on other schemes would be available for
inspection by the Bank during supervision.
4.17      Rehabilitation Schemes.  These schemes have been initiated several
years ago by state or other local government units. In most cases they were
intended to provide additional land to existing villagers living in the
vicinity who had minimal land holdings.  Individual plots were allocated and
the allottees were to be responsible for deve!lopment of their plots. Rehab-
ilitation by FELCRA may be considered when the allottees have been unable to
successfully complete development. Following an approach by the allottees, or
the relevant State Government, FELCRA would ascertain the potential viability



- 30 -
of the scheme, determining its technical suitability for an appropriate crop
(usually rubber or oil palm), accessibility, and size adequacy. If the
allottees are willing to assign their land to FELCRA for redevelopment, a
formal written consent is signed by them. The State Government then formally
vests the land in FELCRA for it to develop under the Group Settlement Act
(GSA).
4.18      The Feasibility Studies Section would carry out a feasibility study
of the proposed scheme along the same lines as for fringe schemes. However, a
brief background report on the past history of the scheme, the present
distribution and circumstances of its members, and the potential for effective
development of the group, would be carried out in place of the report on the
potential catchment area. Scheme selection and monitoring by the Bank would
be on the same basis as for fringe schemes (para. 4.15).
Participant Selection
4.19      The participants in Rehabilitation Schemes are fixed by virtue of
their having been awarded titles to their land. Their agreement to FELCRA
assuming control over this allotment is a precondition to the scheme's
rehabilitation.
4.20      Selection of participants for Fringe Schemes is controlled by the
relevant State Government. Normally a Selection Committee is established
comprising the State Director of Lands and Mines, who acts as chairman, a
representative from the State Government, the District Officer or Collector
of Land Revenue, and a FELCRA Settler Development Officer, who acts as
Secretary. Selection is based on a points system. To be considered an
applicant should be a Malaysian citizen, between 21 and 50 years of age,
married, own less than 6 acres of land and not be attached to the government
service. Points are awarded on the basis of the following criteria: age
(maximum score 10), number of children/dependents (10), area of land owned
(5), distance of residence/village from scheme (10), skill and experience in
agriculture (5) and physical fitness (10). Applicants with the highest scores
are selected.
4.21      In order to ensure adequate targetting of support to lower income
groups, these criteria would be reviewed. As a first step, existing data on
scheme participants and unsuccessful applicants would be analyzed to
determine the effect of changing the relative weights of the criteria, or
the scores awarded for different attributes within each criterion, on those
actually chosen to participate in the schemes. This would also assess the
role of the relatively subjective criteria, i.e., fitness and agricultural
experience, on the final selection. Assurances were obtained that FELCRA
would carry out a study of its settler selection criteria by June 30, 1982 and
promptly furnish a report detailing proposals for modifying such criteria to
Government and the Bank for their agreement.



- 31 -
D.  Monitoring and Evaluation
4.22      Since its establishment in 1967 FELCRA has been an effective land
development agency. It has generally achieved established development targets
and significant improvement in the financial position of its scheme
participants. However, in order to increase the efficiency of its operations
and to improve the design and sharpen the focus of its operations, a
significant monitoring and evaluation effort is appropriate.
4.23      Monitoring.  During the project period FELCRA would introduce an
expanded management information system, which would provide reports to
management, on a quarterly or monthly basis, on a wide range of physical and
financial elements of FELCRA-s operations. This extensive reporTnng system
would not be practicable without the use of computers. FELCRA would hire
consultancy services to prepare computer programs for the proposed system and
provide appropriate training to FELCRA staff. Experienced data processing
specialists are currently at a premium in Malaysia. In order to ensure
adequate supervision of the initial programming of the management information
system, FELCRA would engage an expert on a short-term consultancy basis. Data
processing would initially be the responsibility of the Finance Department,
but would ultimately evolve into a separate departmental unit.  Overall super-
vision of the operation of the monitoring system would be the responsibility
of the Program Development and Evaluation Department.
4.24      Evaluation.  Responsibility for evaluation would rest with the
Evaluation and Special Studies Section of the Program Development and
Evaluation Department. This section would, in particular, initiate two types
of evaluation studies. A set of time-series studies of selected schemes
financed under the project would be undertaken in order to improve under-
standing of the dynamic changes generated by FELCRA schemes in participant
households and villages. The scheme catchment area would be surveyed before
development is initiated. This would provide an indication of existing income
levels, occupations, attitudes to the proposed development, etc. Subse-
quently, bi-annual surveys of the same sample of households would be
undertaken. Selected households would only be replaced if they left the
scheme or refused to cooperate. A fixed sample of this type has limitation in
that it can be argued that an increasing bias in the survey develops. The
benefits of a historical pattern of income levels, attitudes, etc. more than
outweigh the drawbacks of such an approach.
4.25      The Section would also undertake in-depth evaluation of a sample
of schemes in production. In addition to reviewing the physical and finan-
cial performance of the scheme, i.e., cost, yields, loan repayment and
incomes earned by participants, the study would focus in particular on its
social development, including the functioning and role of the Settlers-
Committee, the degree of settler participation in the scheme, and its local
impact. The studies would attempt to assess the future prospects of the



- 32 -
scheme, and to identify a course of action for FELCRA to ensure the creation
of a viable entity when the agency withdraws after loan repayment is
completed.
E. Other Studies
4.26      The overall problems of "idle land" and holding size are clearly
beyond the scope of FELCRA to tackle, and would be addressed in the context of
the preparation of the National Strategy for Land Use proposed by t/LRD.
Based on its mandate and existing method of operation, FELCRA would however
play a key role in two areas: the potential role of land consolidation or
forms of land pooling, as means to tackling the rural poverty problem and
increasing the effective utilization of land; and the evolution of group
farming approaches in the Malaysian context, in particular the transfer of
responsibility from the implementing agency to group members. FELCRA would
develop further pilot operations in these areas, and would attempt to ensure,
e.g., through in-depth surveys of selected small subregions, that pilot
schemes which were undertaken were replicable.
4.27      In the absence of any formal mandate to undertake consolidation,
FELCRA has concentrated on assisting rural households by developing small
nearby parcels of land and making them available to those operating
submarginal holdings, or by rehabilitating similar fringe land development
schemes which were not successful on a self-help basis. These have provided
an approach to the problem of inadequately sized holdings, but they have
assisted only selected individuals within disadvantaged areas, and have left
many other households untouched. One approach to broadening the impact of
these investments is being tested in the pilot in situ projects, combining
development of adjacent land and voluntary pooling of village land, which is
then vested in FELCRA. Although definitive data are not available, it is
likely that only a minority of villages could satisfy the conditions
necessary for successful implementation of the in situ approach. Consi-
deration will have to be given to alternative approaches to increasing
holding size, including consolidation of holdings where no additional
adjacent land exists. Some possible approaches are being investigated in
the context of other programs (e.g., the Integrated Agricultural Development
Projects (IADP) under the general leadership of the Ministry of Agriculture).
However, given its background and mandate FELCRA will be expected to take a
lead in tackling land consolidation.
4.28      The Evaluation and Special Studies Section would carry out a series
of studies in this area which would elaborate alternative models involving
some form of consolidation and their implications, e.g.:
(a) voluntary participation of households; no additional
land available; displacement of some households required;
surrender cxie tA'x  Xa'k         i    so'  excess ¶ami)ries to



- 33 -
take up land on settlement schemes, e.g., of FELDA; form of
compensation to be paid to those surrendering holdings;
replanning and reallocation of proprietary units; and
(b) a more formalized form of consolidation for which there
is now no proposed model in the Malaysian context.
4.29      Elaboration of these models would include review of: (a) possible
legislative implications; (b) probable manpower and time requirements for
schemes, including a preliminary investigation to determine local support and
feasibility, the ascertainment of existing rights, the preparation of a
scheme (including legal steps), and its implementation. Based on these
initial feasibility studies the unit would move to undertake pilot schemes
of types which appeared operationally and legally feasible.
4.30      In Malaysia, a large share of post-independence land development
undertaken by "smallholders" has been managed in contiguous schemes by public
sector agencies, in particular FELDA and FELCRA. In principle, agency control
is tied to the period of repayment of the loans made to the settlers. This
approach is highly intensive in its demands upon the public sector agencies.
To date progress in transferring operational responsibility to the settlers,
individually or as a group, has been minimal. If such approaches to enhancing
agricultural productivity in existing villages are to have a significant
impact, less "agency-intensive" management methods will be necessary. This
problem will become more urgent for FELCRA as pressure for expansion of the
in situ and related programs increases. The Evaluation and Special Studies
Section would undertake studies and develop pilot projects in this area, which
would encompass forms of involvement of smallholders in scheme preparation,
legal forms of group operation, obligations of participants during principal
development (investment) phase, cost to be borne by group, compensation and
benefit distribution, management decision-making procedures, means of
developing necessary skills among participants, and strategy for reducing
FELCRA inputs. These investigations would include existing producing schemes
(para. 4.25), as well as new pilot projects.
4.31      The work of the Special Studies Section would be designed to lead to
implementation of operations, in most instances on a pilot basis and would
attempt to ensure, e.g., thorough in-depth surveys of small sub-regions, that
the pilot schemes which were undertaken would be replicable. The program of
work over the project period would have the overall objective of providing a
firm basis for FELCRA's development program for the subsequent Fifth Plan
period, which would clarify FELCRA's role in the national land development
strategy. While the areas for study, including issues of settler selection
and evaluation of existing schemes, are likely to form the major elements of
the program, the program will have to evolve during the life of the project.
The Program Development and Evaluation Department would prepare an annual
program of work which would be forwarded to the Bank for review.



- 34 -
F. Operation and Maintenance
4.32      FELCRA would be responsible for operation and maintenance of the
facilities to be financed under the project. Assurances were obtained from
Government that adequate arrangements would be made for the timely provision
of funds and resources required to maintain all civil works constructed under
the project, and to staff, maintain and operate all other project-supported
activities.
G. Accounts and Audit
4.33      FELCRA would develop separate financial statements for its funds
and a consolidated balance sheet and prepare detailed and comparative state-
ments in loan disbursements and repayments which would permit analysis of the
financial position of individual schemes. Assurances were obtained that
FELCRA would prepare proposals for implementation of a system of financial
reporting acceptable to the Bank by June 30, 1982, and prepare a five-year
financial projection detailing incomes, expenditures and financial position by
December 31, 1982. Assurances were also obtained that FELCRA-s accounts would
be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to the Government and
the Bank.
5. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND INCOMES
A. Production Technology
5.01      Agricultural development would be supervised directly by FELCRA and
is expected to be substantially confined to rubber and oil palm. The agency
does have substantial experience with these crops, now having 150,000 acres
under its supervision. Malaysia is the world½s principal producer of both
these crops and standard practices for their establishment, maintenance, and
harvesting are well established. (Technical standards and practices proposed
for this project are outlined in Annex 2.)
B. Incremental Production
5.02      Rubber areas will commence production in 1988.  Peak incremental
production of 43,000 tons per annum is expected in the year 2000 (see Table
5.1). Oil palm production will commence in 1984 and is expected to peak in
1992 with an ffb output of 161,000 tons (equivalent to 31,000 tons of palm oil
and 6,500 tons of palm kernels). The loss of production as a result of the
project is small. Fringe schemes are developed from land not presently used
for agriculture. Most rehabilitation schemes were supposed to have been
planted with rubber, but production of rubber or other crops on these schemes
is normally minimal. Individual plotholders on schemes with a reasonable



- 35 -
existing stand of rubber are unlikely to agree to rehabilitation by FELCRA,
since they would qualify for full RISDA replanting grants in a few years.
Table 5.1: SUMMARY OF INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION UNDER THE PROJECT
('000 tons) (SELECTED YEARS)
Year                        Total
1981   1985   1990   1995   2000   2010   (30 years)
Rubber
New plantings          -      -      10.1   36.3   43.1   22.3        690.1
Production lost on
rehabilitated
schemes             (0.5)  (1.1)      -       -      -      -        (5.7)
Incremental rubber      (0.5)  (1.1)   10.1   36.3   43.1   22.3        684.4
Oil Palm
ffb                    -     27.6   149.1  153.0  133.7  107.2.   3,241.4
Oil                    -      4.1    27.8   29.1   25.4   20.4        609.1
Kernels                -      1.1     6.0    6.1    5.3    4.3        129.7
C. Marketing
5.03      Rubber.  FELCRANs standard marketing practice is to enter into
a contract with the Malaysian Rubber Development Corporation (MARDEC) which
operates factories processing smallholder rubber. It purchases both
latex and scrap. In the few areas where it is difficult to obtain MARDEC
services, due to poor road accessibility, group processing for sheet rubber
would be undertaken.  This would normally be done using sheeting batteries.
The output would then be sold either through RISDA or local private traders.
The quantity of sheet rubber is expected to be small and would be sold through
local tendering.
5.04      Oil Palm.   Where oil palm schemes are within easy transport
distance of FELCRA's own mills, oil palm fruit would be sold by the scheme
to FELCRA for processing. Where this is not feasible, FELCRA would continue
its present practice of selling fruit to private traders on behalf of the
scheme, by open tender. Contracts are normally for one year and based on
gazetted prices, assumed oil and kernel extraction percentages, and quoted
transport and other charges. While this procedure of fruit sale by tender
can work well, protracted disputes can arise over the weight and quality of
fruit being delivered by a scheme. Cancellation of a contract by a buyer,
particularly during peak harvest months, can cause major losses, because of



- 36 -
the consequent need for distress sale of fruit.  Such potential losses are
difficult to quantify, but may be assumed to be about 5%, in addition to
creating continuing management problems.
D. Product Prices
5.05      Financial prices /1 for rubber and oil palm are estimated on the
basis of Bank projections for world prices adjusted for international
freight, the domestic cost of marketing and the present levels of export
taxation. Details of the estimates and calculated adjustments are given in
Annex 4, Tables 1 and 2. The average scheme level price for rubber is based
on the assumption that, on a dry rubber basis, 35% would be of RSS I quality,
45% RSS III and 20% scrap. For oil palm fruit the ex-scheme price is based
on assumed extraction rates of 19% for palm oil and 4% for palm kernels.
E. Scheme Models
5.06      Because of the nature of the FELCRA schemes, which are operated as
single units, and on which the beneficiaries (shareholders) are not obliged
to work, individual farm models have not been constructed. Models have been
developed for typical 1,000 acre schemes based on rubber or oil palm. On the
basis of FELCRA's past experience, planted areas of 890 acres and 950 acres
have been assumed for rubber and oil palm, respectively.
5.07      The number of participants in rehabilitation schemes is dictated by
the number of plots originally allocated by the particular State Government.
Typically, these were of 4-8 acres and, on that basis, a total of 165
participants has been assumed on a 1,000 acre rehabilitation scheme. On
fringe schemes the plot size is agreed with the State Government, but current
practice is to allocate shares equivalent to six acres planted, except in
special circumstances. In addition, a share equivalent to 10% of the scheme
is held by FELCRA. Therefore, allowing for this reduction in the area to be
alloted, the number of participants in a typical 1,000 acre fringe scheme is
assumed to be 134, where rubber is planted, and 143 for oil palm. However,
the size of allotment and participant incomes would be reviewed in light of
the circumstances of each scheme.
5.08      Participants are entitled to receive all surplus funds after oper-
ating costs, insurance, and loan repayment deductions have been met. On
fringe schemes the FELCRA holding receives 10% of the scheme's net profit
before the individual dividends payable to participants are calculated. There
is no fixed dividend policy, each scheme is assessed individually every six
months and a recommendation on the dividend made to the participants. Reduc-
tions in dividends paid may be made to build up a loan repayment fixed against
future debt servicing requirements, or for establishment of scheme coopera-
tives. No deduction is made from the potential dividend for income smoothing
purposes. In the event of low yields and/or prices reducing income, funds
)_   In March/April 1981 constant currency terms.



- 37 -
from the FELCRA holding are used to cover operating expenditures and loan
repayment. The holding may also be used to provide capital for subsidiary
projects undertaken by the scheme, or to finance special courses on other
activities for participants. FELCRA also retains the right to draw on the
lholding for extraordinary purposes, e.g. to fund possible shortfalls in the
Agricultural Insurance Fund. Since the Fund is used for scheme purposes, and
would not be a 10% levy on the scheme used for other purposes (e.g., a
replanting fund), it has not been itemized in the cash flow, but is included
in the funds available for dividend payments.
5.09      Rubber.  The financial flow for a typical 1,000 acre rubber scheme
is summarized in Table 5.2. Field investment costs are covered by an
interest-free loan to FELCRA from Treasury, repayable over 10 years, beginning
in the ninth year after planting (year 10 of the scheme). The total
Treasury loan is estimated at $1,193,000. In addition a negative cash flow in
years 9 and 10 would be covered by carrying forward funds from year 8, the
first year of tapping, in which a small accounting surplus would be attributed
to the scheme. Projected dividends on fringe schemes would average $1,366
during the loan repayment period (including the 10% FELCRA holding) and $1,550
during the final 11 years of the expected life of the trees.
5.10      Oil Palm.  The financial flow for a typical oil palm scheme is
summarized in Table 5.3. Field investment costs, funded by an interest-free
Treasury loan, are projected at $1,259,000. A positive cash flow is projected
for the third production year (year 6) and a surplus of $155,000 ($1,080 per
participant on fringe schemes) is projected for year 7. Currently Treasury
loans to FELCRA for oil palm schemes, which carry interest at 6.5%, are
repayable beginning in year 10. Years 8 and 9 are projected peak production
years and the cash flow should be adequate to begin loan repayment in year 8.
It is therefore recommended that repayment of interest-free Treasury loans
for oil palm schemes should begin in year 8 and extend over a period of
10 years. Projected dividends per settler would average about $420 over the
development period, rising to $770 during the repayment period and $1,080
thereafter.
5.11      The projected cash flow for one of the two oil palm mills is shown
in Annex 3. The mills would serve FELCRA-s existing oil palm schemes.
Investment cost, to be financed by a Treasury loan at its commercial rate, is
estimated at $5.3 million. Based on existing commercial marketing margins,
the mills would generate a surplus, beginning in the third year, after pro-
viding for loan repayment, averaging $1.3 million per year. Actual charges
levied for processing would be adequate to cover the cost of processing, loan
repayment, and development of a small reserve fund.



Table 5.2: SUMMARY CASH FLOW ANALYSIS OF A 1,000 ACRE RUBBER SCHEME /a
($'000)
Years
1      2       3       4       5      6       7       8       9      10-19  20-30
/b
Receipts
Government loan                         355    149    122    131    114         91    112    119        -         -       -
Sales rubber                                      -          -       -           -       -     49    266        604    480
Total Receipts                  355    149    122    131    114         91    112    168    266          604    480
Payments
Investmens  expenditure                355    149    122    131    114          91    112    119        -         -       -
Operating expenditure                     -      -       -       -       -       -      -       -    245        295    265
Consolidated annual charge                                                                      3       7         7
Loan repayment                            -      -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -       119
Totalj Payments                 355    149    122    131    114         91    112    122    252         421    272
Annual surpiu5/(deficit)                    -       -      -                                     46      14       183    208
Fund Available for Dividend
Fringe scheme (134 participants)
($)                                  -       -      -       -       -       -       -    343    107    1,366  1,552
Rehabilitation scheme (165
participants)($)                     -       -      -       _                            279      87    1,109  1,261
Wage Paymentl                             54      66      63      76      57     47      38      72    198        251    228
Total to participants /c                32      40      38     46      34      28      23      43    120        151    136
Payment Per participant
Fringe schene ($)                      239    295    285    343    254    209    172    321    896    1,127  1,015
Rehabilitation scheme ($)              194    242    230    279    206    170    139    261    727              915    824
/a  890 acres planted.
/b  Loan repgytent period (annual average).
/c 60% of total.



Table 5.3:  SUMIARY CASh FLOW ANALYSIS OF A 1,000 ACRE OIL PALM SCHEMEE /a
(S'OUO)
Years
1      2       3      4       5       6      7      8-17   18-30
/b
_-Qeipts
government loan                       376    128    143    297    217         98       -       -        -
Sales (fresh fruit)                      -      -       -     29    130    250       388    459       347
Total Receipts                 376    128    143    326    347    348         388    459       347
Payments
Investment expenditure                 376    128    143    297    217        98        -      -        -
Operating expenditure                    -      -       -       -      -      98      208    198      170
Consolidated annual charge               -      -       -       4      7       7        7       7       7
Loan repayment                           -      -       -       9     18      18       18      18      18
Replanting fund                          -      -       -       -      -       -        -    126        -
Total Payments                 376    128    143    310    242    221         233    349       195
Allnual surplus (deficit)                  -       -      -      16    105    127       155    110      152
Fqnd Available for Dividend
per Participant
Fringe scheme (143 participants)
($)                                 -       -       -    117    734    888   1,084    769   1,077
Rehabilitation scheme (165
participant)($)                      -      -       -    101    636    770       939    667       933
W~age Payments
Total                                   63     67      92    j34    136    116        127    117       94
Total to participants /c                38     40      55      80     82      70       76      70      56
Payment Per Participant
Fringe schemes ($)                     266    280    385    559    573    492         531    492      396
Rehabilitation schemes ($)             230    242    333    485    497    424         461    424      339
/a 950 acres planted.
/b Loan repayment period (annual average).
7   60% of total.



- 40 -
6. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. General
6.01      FELCRA is the principal federal agency involved in the development
and rehabilitation of small land development schemes. These programs have
three principal objectives: (a) to create assets (largely in land) for the
direct benefit of disadvantaged rural groups; (b) raise the quality and income
potential of agricultural resources; and (c) promote efficient agricultural
units. Government proposes to expand FELCRA rapidly during the coming 5-year
period to maximize its role in the alleviation of poverty in traditional
smallholder agriculture. The principal aim of the proposed project is to
strengthen FELCRA's capability to plan and implement smallholder improvement
projects. As a consequence, the project would assist in the development of
alternative approaches to improvement of smallholder agriculture, and sharpen
the focus of FELCRA's program in this area. The project would finance the
fringe and rehabilitation scheme elements of FELCRA's program for the 1981-85
period covering a total of about 84,000 acres./l It would include land
development and associated costs over the 5-year period, and contain a series
of measures to strengthen FELCRA, including development of an agency-wide
training program. The total cost of the project over the 5-year period
(excluding contingencies) is estimated at $102 million, of which $71 million
would be for scheme development and associated infrastructure and equipment,
$10 million for processing facilities, $2 million for training and $19 million
for overall project management, FELCRA staffing and technical assistance.
B. Project Benefits
6.02      The main quantifiable benefits of the proposed project would result
from the increased production of rubber, palm oil and palm kernels. The
principal beneficiaries would be the approximately 12,000 scheme participants
and their families, who would obtain income from the schemes in the form of
wages for work performed, and dividends. The average development cost of
these schemes per participant household is $13,000. This compares to the
estimated cost per family on larger settlement schemes, e.g., Keratong and
Johore of about $24,000 in 1981 prices, and reflects the smaller size of
holding and the lack of provision of housing and supporting infrastructure
for participants. Based on past experience, about 40% of the labor for the
schemes would be performed by nonparticipants, and this would amount to over
5,000 man-years per year at full development. Production of rubber would rise
to a peak of 43,000 mt in the year 2000 (see Table 5.1), valued at $65 million
in 1981 prices, and palm oil and kernels would reach 31,000 tons and 6,500
tons in 1992, valued at $18 million and $2 million respectively. The total
estimated value of production over the life of the assisted schemes would be
$1,430 million.
/1   The Bank is also financing the Trans-Perak Project, an area
development project covering about 31,000 acres, the land development
component of which would be the responsibility of FELCRA.



- 41 -
C. Beneficiaries
6.03       Scheme participants would be selected by State Governments.  The
broad criteria used in selection are: Malaysian citizen, 21 to 50 years
of age, good health, married with children, living within 10 miles of the
proposed scheme, landless or with an uneconomic size holding, and having
agricultural experience. While these criteria do not specifically include
income, in practice prescreening of schemes has resulted in the majority of
selected beneficiaries having very low incomes. Data collected during project
preparation indicate that the distribution of incomes of participant
households would be of the following order:
Household                       Preproject
Income range        % of       Average income
Group      ($/month)       households        ($/mornth)
A            $0-124           68                80
B          $125-200           25               170
C        over p200              7              250
Total                          100              114
These groups correspond approximately to those with incomes below the Poverty
Level, those between the Poverty Level and the Critical Consumption Level
(CCL),/l and those with incomes above the CCL.
6.04      Benefit Distribution.  The expected cash flows for typical 1,000-
acre rubber and oil palm schemes were outlined in Chapter 5. Dividend
income would be distributed equally among the participants and therefore the
distribution by preproject income group would be as above. As noted, thse
schemes are not intended to provide the sole source of household income, and
the area allocated per participant does not require a full labor input from
the household. When the schemes have been operated on a share basis it has
not been mandatory for participants to undetake a given amount of work on
the schemes. Participants are given preference in hiring but, based on past
experience, it is estimated that only 60% of wage income would be earned by
participants or their immediate families, and the balance provided by
workers not participating in ownership of the scheme.
6.05       Participant households with lowest currenit incomes are considered
most likely to take up the available work. Those few whose current incomes
exceed the CCL may be assumed not to choose to work on the scheme. It is
estimated that 80% of the wages earned by the remaining settler households
would be received -by those with preproject incomes below the poverty level.
On this basis, an estimate has been made of the distribution of incomes
derived from the schemes (see Table 6.1). This indicates that, including
/1 One thiird of per capita GDLP.



- 42 -
Table 6.1: DISTRIBUTION OF BENEFITS BY BENEFICIARY GROUP
AT FULL DEVELOPMENT
Distribution
of benefits
Bene-             Divi-
ficiary            dends  Wages  Total
Crop               group/a           -(%) -
Rubber              A                     68     48      60
B                    25      12     20
C                     7       -      5
Other lb              -      40     15
Total             100    100    100
Oil palm            A                     68     48      56
B                    25      12     18
C                     7       -      3
Other /b              -      40     23
Total             100    100    100
/a See para. 6.03.
7T Workers not participating in ownership of the scheme.
both wage earnings and dividends, close to 60% of the direct benefits of the
project would accrue to participant households currently in the poverty
group, with less than 5% going to those with existing incomes above the CCL.
About 19% of total benefits would go to nonparticipant workers. Survey data
on the income status of these nonparticipant workers employed on the schemes
are not available, but observation suggests that these would predominantly be
drawn from low-income households and that it is probable that at least 75%
would be in the poverty group. Thus, in the aggregate close to 75% of the
benefits would accrue to households currently in poverty.
6.06      Participant Incomes.  Based on the models of 1,000-acre fringe
schemes outlined in Chapter 5, estimates have been made of incomes received by
participant households from these schemes, assuming that 60% of scheme labor
is supplied by participants, or their dependents (see Table 6.2). Average
wage earnings from the scheme per participant household would range from $334
p.a. on rubber schemes during the development period to $1,127 on rubber
schemes in full production (years 10-19). If the income obtained by
participants from the schemes is, in the aggregate, supplementary to their
existing incomes (which average $1,200/year), household casb icm-es wx%\
average- 23zwt %3,5    an increase of more than 1507 above vrepvo ject           .



- 43 -
Table 6.2: PARTICIPANT DIVIDEND AND WAGE INCOMES ON RUBBER
AND OIL PALM FRINGE SCHEMES, BY PHASE OF DEVELOPMENT /a
Rubber                    Oil Palm
(134 participants)       (143 participants)
Participant              Participants
Average    household      Average    household
partici-     working       partici-   working
pant  /b  on scheme /c    pant       on scheme
______________________  ($)    --------------
Development period /d
Dividend                          27            27          403           403
Wages                            334         1,,640         444         1,800
Total                          361         1,667          847        2,203
Loan repayment period /e
Dividend                       1,366         1,366          769           759
Wages                          1,127         1,920          492         2,200
Total                        2,493         3,286        1,261         2,969
Post loan repayment period /f
Dividend                       1,552         1,552        1,077         1,077
Wages                           1,015        1,850          396         2,160
Total                      2,567         3,402        1,473        3,237
/a  Based on a typical 1,000-acre scheme.
/b  Assuming settlers or their dependents supply only 60% of wage labor
hired by scheme.
/c  Household members hired for 400 days work per year.
/d  Rubber years 1-9.  Oil palm years 1-7.
/e  Rubber years 10-19.  Oil palm years 8-17.
/f  Rubber years 20-30.  Oil palm years 18-30.
However, the income of these households would still be below the CCL which
would have increased to the equivalent of $4,300 per household at that period.
6.07      The extent of employment of participants on the schemes would depend
on the amount of work offered and other employment opportunities open to them.
Preproject, available data indicate that the average participant household
obtains about 300 man-days of employment per year. The wage incomes earned by
average participants during the scheme production period represent just under



- 44 -
200 man-days work per year. A typical household with minimal other
commitments could supply about 1.5 labor units p.a., or 400 days, to the
scheme. Thus, participant households would be forced to relinquish some
(about one third) of their preproject activities, and would be fully employed
(if they wished) during the productive period.  Cash incomes for a household
providing 400 days labor to the scheme per year have been estimated, and range
between $3,000 and $3,400 p.a. during the production period (see Table 6.2),
and this may be taken as a minimum cash income level of participants at full
development.  Households would also obtain income in kind from their
separately owned dwellings and houselots.  It cannot be inferred, however,
that nonparticipant households would also be fully employed post-project.
6.08      Schemes of the type included in this program are inevitably somewhat
random in their impact. At existing relative prices of labor and products,
almost one half of the cash income generated during the production period
would be received by participants as dividends. This can mean a significant
income boost to those fortunate enough to be chosen to participate in the
schemes. Given financial and institutional capacity constraints, coverage of
such schemes is limited, and significant numbers of the rural poor are not
assisted directly, especially those not favored by the existing selection
criteria (para. 4.20), e.g., older smallholders and widows, although their
close dependents or relatives may be selected. Under the project a number of
initiatives would be undertaken to explore the potential for broadening the
coverage of small-scale land rehabilitation and development schemes. The
in situ projects, currently in a pilot phase of development, which provide
assistance to a whole village as a unit, are an attempt of this type. Other
alternatives would be explored in the research and project preparation work to
be carried out under the project (see paras. 4.26-4.31), and a review of the
existing selection criteria is to be carried out (para. 4.21). Evaluation of
ongoing schemes would also focus on the degree of involvement by participants
in the schemes and the impact of work on the schemes on other activities of
the participants.
D. Cost Recovery
6.09      Government would receive revenue as a result of the rubber and oil
palm schemes from three sources: repayment of the loans for field development,
export taxes on the commodities produced, and land taxes. Of these charges,
export taxes would amount to 78% and loan repayment 20% (see Table 6.3).
Including taxes, the cost recovery index is 91% for oil palm and 75% for
rubber. The recoveries by Government amount to 106% of the net cash
incomes received by participants for oil palm schemes and 85% for rubber.
While these high recovery levels are largely comprised of sector-wide taxes,
they should be seen in the context of the relatively low levels of income
obtained by scheme participants, since beneficiary incomes are expected to
remain below the CCL at full development (para. 6.06). At the same time the
high level of recovery from relatively low-income beneficiaries is justified
by the fact that the beneficiaries assume little or none of the riask attachA
to t'he project.  The scheme would be managed by FELCRA; the beneficiaries do
not provide any capital or unpaid labor. The principal objective of this
element of the Government s land development program is to create viable
income-earning assets for transfer to disadvantaged rural groups.



- 45 -
Table 6.3: COST RECOVERY /a
Type of scheme
Oil palm       Rubber
----($000)
1.  Gross value of scheme production at scheme /b              2,415         2,196
2.  Less production costs                                      1,043          1,212
3.  Plus wage payments to participants                           601            778
4.  Net cash income to participants                            1,973          1,762
5.  Land taxes                                                    46             30
6.  Product taxes                                              1,651         1,150
7.  Loan repayments                                              397            311
8.  Total public recoveries (5+6+7)                            2,094         1,491
9.  Public sector outlays (capital + O&M)                      2,306         1,992
10.  Cost recovery index (8t9)                                   91%            75%
11.  Ratio of public recoveries to cash
income of participants from scheme (8-4)                106%            85%
/a Based on typical 1,000 acre schemes.
/b  Items 1-9 are present values in 1981 prices (discounted at 10%).
E. Economic Analysis
6.10       Economic analysis of the project was carried out separately for
the land development and processing components. The net present value
(NPV) and economic rate of return (ERR) for the land development component
were determined by comparing incremental rubber and oil palm (ffb)
production with incremental investment and operational cost at economic
prices, discounted over a 30-year period. Benefits from the oil palm
processing facilities consist of crude palm oil and kernel output valued at
border prices, while the principal cost items at economic prices comprised
the initial investment outlays for the facilities, the fresh fruit inputs
and other direct manufacturing charges, all discounted over the assumed
22-year life of the facilities. The discount rate used in the NPV
calculations is the opportunity cost of capital, estimated at 10% for
Malaysia. Details of economic price calculations are given in Annex 4.
6.11       Land Development.  Viability of each of the agricultural
development components was tested by means of a detailed economic analysis
of four scheme models, representative of each type of scheme undertaken by
FELCRA under the project:
(a) a rehabilitation scheme growing rubber;



- 46 -
(b) a rehabilitation scheme growing oil palm;
(c) a rubber fringe scheme; and
(c) an oil palm fringe scheme.
The results of these analyses are summarized in Annex 4, Table 3.
6.12      Processing Facilities.  The two proposed palm oil mills under the
project were appraised separately since they have not been designed
specifically to serve the oil palm planted under the project, but would
cater to existing FELCRA oil palm schemes. The recommended mill locations
are Bukit Kepong and Nasaruddin where FELCKA's oil palm acreage in the
mills' catchment areas would be large enough to guarantee a sufficient and
regular supply of ffb input. The results of the economic analysis for both
mills are summarized in Annex 4, Table 4.
6.13      Net Present Values and Economic Rates of Return.  The aggregated
economic net present value of the project is estimated at $98.5 million and
the overall economic rate of return is approximately 18%. The rates of
return for both the land development component and the processing component
are satisfactory at 17% and 24%, respectively. Rates of return for the
representative scheme models are also acceptable, ranging from 15% for
rehabilitation rubber schemes to 22% for fringe oil palm schemes.
6.14      Sensitivity Analysis.  Sensitivity tests were conducted to
identify the variables that are critical to the viability of the project and
analyze the extent of their influence. Sensitivity analysis for the land
development component was carried out by determination of the switching
values /1 for crucial variables of the four representative scheme models,
summarized below. The results suggest that the land development component
is slightly sensitive to crop yields attained. However, the probability of
30% or 40% lower yields must be considered highly unlikely given the fact
that the agricultural practices for both rubber and oil palm are well proven
in Malaysia.
/1 The switching value indicates the percentage reduction in a benefit
stream (or increas,e in cost) necessary to reduce the internal rate of
return of the project to the opportunity cost of capital (lO%), ie.
to reduce the net present value of thxe proaect to zero.



- 47 -
Land Development Component
Switching Values of Critical Variables
% change over base case
Yield     Field                           FELCRA
per   development  Labor  Infrastruc-  manage-
Scheme model      acre      cost       wages   ture cost    ment
Rehabilitation
Rubber           -28        177       157        289        186
Oil palm         -38        325       359        359        300
Fringe
Rubber           -34       212        188        345        223
Oil palm         -42       362        400        398        334
6.15      In addition an analysis was carried out of the representative
scheme models- sensitivity to other, more complex, conditions. It has been
assumed in the design of the schemes that, at i-ull development, most
participants would be able to find work outside the schemes, if they were
not employed in the scheme. Therefore the impact of a rise in the
opportunity cost of labor to equal the market wage by 1990 was assessed.
This would reduce the rate of return by about one percentage point for
rubber, and 0.7% for oil palm. Game damage can be a severe problem in some
areas, particularly on oil palm, necessitating substantial replanting in the
first year or so after planting. An increase of 10% in development costs
and a one year delay in maturity would reduce the rate of return by about
3 percentage points for oil palm and nearly 2 points for rubber, and would
reduce the net present value by up to 25% for oil palm.
6.16      Switching value analysis for the processing facilities showed that
the critical variable is the oil extraction rate. A reduction in the
rate from 19% to 18% reduces the ERR by almost 10 percentage points. The
oil extraction rate is dependent both on the efficiency of the milling
operations and the quality of the ffb input. This stresses the importance
of a well designed mill and good management both at the mill and at the
scheme level to avoid oil losses due to inefficient operation of the mills
and untimely harvesting of fruit. The world market price for palm oil is
not really crucial to the viability of the processing facilities themselves,
since lower output prices are largely passed on to the ffb producers through
lower ffb prices.
F. Project Risks
6.17      The risks associated with the project are limited.  Rubber and oil
palm production technology is well known in Malaysia. Market prospects for



- 48 -
both crops are favorable. A reduction of 10% in market prices would reduce
the rate of return for the project from 18% to 16%.  The additional produc-
tion from the project would itself have an insignificant impact on market
prices. The major implementation risk associated with the project is that of
delayed agricultural development because of staffing constraints and capa-
bility within FELCRA, but this would not have a substantial impact on the rate
of return. For example, delaying the agricultural development of the project
by one year would reduce the rate of return to 16%. Major emphasis is being
placed in the project on FELCRA's organization, staffing and training, to
avoid such delays.
G. Environmental Impact
6.18      Land development would be carried out within the guidelines of the
Malaysian Conservation Act, which provides adequate safeguards against erosion
and water course pollution. Commercial grade timber is extracted from forest
areas before clearance is given by the Forestry Department. No loss of
habitat critical to endangered species is expected. Palm oil mills would be
located away from population centers in order to minimize the nuisance of
smoke and odors. Mill effluent would be treated by means of a ponding system
to meet the standards set by the Division of Environment (DOE), under the
Ministry of Science, Technology and Environment, which require the biological
oxygen demand (BOD) level of the effluent to be reduced below 500 ppm before
discharge.
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government
on the following points:
(a) lending terms and conditions to FELCRA would be satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 3.23); and
(b) adequate arrangements would be made for the timely provision of
funds and resources required to maintain all civil works construc-
ted under the project, and to staff, maintain and operate all other
project-supported activities (para. 4.32);
7.02      During negotiations assurances were obtained from FELCRA that:
(a) suitably qualified and experienced individuals would be employed
as Senior Planning Adviser and Training and Staff Development
Adviser by December 31, 1981 (para. 3.16);
(b) suitably qualified and experienced individuals would be appointed
as Director of Program Development and Evaluation and as Regional
Controllers by December 31, 1982, and as  e-p'at-y DiSector &enetal
(Administration) by 3une 30, 1933 (para. 4.13);



- 49 -
(c) it would furnish to the Bank for review by March 31, 1982, an
implementation plan for organizational strengthening and
expansion, incorporating the proposals of paras. 4.04 to 4.12,
which would be implemented in consultation with the Government and
the Bank (para. 4.13);
(d) the schemes to be developed under the project would yield an
economic rate of return of 10% or more and FELCRA would forward
to the Bank full feasibility reports for individual schemes extend-
ing to over 1,500 acres (para. 4.16);
(e) it would carry out a study of its settler selection criteria by
June 30, 1982 and promptly furnish a report detailing proposals
for modifying such criteria to Government and the Bank for their
agreement (para. 4.21);
(f) it would prepare proposals for implementation of a system of
financial reporting acceptable to the Bank by June 30, 1982, and
prepare a five-year financial projection detailing incomes,
expenditures and financial position by December 31, 1982 (para.
4.33); and
(g)  it would have its accounts audited annually by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Government and the Bank (para. 4.33).
7.03      It is recommended that the Bank approve retroactive financing of
$3.0 million for expenditure incurred after October 1, 1980, on consultancies
and activities required as part of the 1981 planting program (para. 3.27).
7.04      Subject to the above assurances, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank Loan of $37.0 million, with a 17-year maturity including
a grace period of four years. The Borrower would be the Government of
Malaysia.



-50 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Phasing of Agricultural Development
(acres)
Type of scheme/crop           1981      1982      1983     1984      1985      Total
Fringe
Rubber                        7,000   12,800   10,300    4,000    4,800   38,900
Oil palm                      2,500    2,800    2,000    2,000         700   10,000
Subtotal Fringe            9,500   15,600   12,300    6,000    5,500   48,900
Rehabilitation
Rubber                        4,500    3,800    5,000    6,900    5,400   25,600
Oil palm                      5,800       400         -    1,200    2,400    9,800
Subtotal Rehab.           10,300    4,200    5,000    8,100    7,800   35,400
Total                     19,800   19,800   17,300   14,100   13,300   84,300
Subtotal Rubber           11,500   16,600   15,300   10,900   10,200   64,500
Subtotal Oil Palm          8,300    3,200    2,000    3,200    3,100   19,800



-    -                                 ANNEX 1
Table 2
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Agricultural Development Costs by Year
(M$ 000)
1981      1982     1983      1984      1985      Total
Rubber
Land clearing/planting         7,765   13,536   13,719   10,465    9,088   54,573
Materials                         80       575    1.,400    2,207    2,890    7,152
Agricultural tracks                -       149       330       961    1,270    2,710
Casual labor & sundries          103       573    2,735    5,260    7,418   16,089
Subtotal                   7,948   14,833   18,184   18,893   20,666   80,524
Oil Palm
Land clearing/planting         6,130    3,529    1,920    2,632    2,714   16,925
Materials                          -       459       819    1,249    1,792    4,319
Agricultural tracks                -       117       137    1,690        795    2,763
Casual labor & sundries           83       399    1,762    2,980    3,755    8,979
Subtotal                   6,213    4,504    4,638    8,575    9,056   32,986
Total Base Cost           14,161   19,337   22,822   27,468   29,722  113,510
Physical Contingencies           1,416    1,934    2,282    2,747    2,972   11,351
Total                     15,577   21,271   25,104   30,215   32,694  124,861



MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Scheme Infrastructure Construction Program and Cost by Year
(M$ 000)
1981            1982              1983             1984             1985           Total
Unit    Cost   Unit       Cost   Unit    Cost   Unit    Cost   Unit           Cost      Cost
Access roads (miles)            13    1,546    26       3,055    23    2,659    24    2,791         26     3,073      13,124
Buildings (units)
Housing                      63    1,058   124        2,068   131    2,207   131    2,184   112          1,825       9,342
Offices                       12      480    21         806    21        827    18       697    16          625     3,435
Furniture/equipment                   148               280              295             284                238      1,245
Site Preparation                       52                91               91              78                70         382
Subtotal                        14738            3,245            3,420            3,243             2,758    14,404
Water supply (schemes)          12      370    21         644    21        644    18       557    16          487      2,702
Electricity (schemes)          12       374    21         665    21        665    18       557    16          522      2,783
Subtotal                          744            1,309            1,309            1,114             1,009      5,485
Total _ase Cost                4,028             7,609            7,388            7,148             6,840    33,013
Physical contingencies                  791             1,494           1,448            1,401             1,344      6,478
Total                          4,819             9,103            8,836           8,549             8,184    39,491



MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Vehicles and Equipment Numbers and Cost by Year
(M$  000)
I                                   1981             1982              1983            1984             1985              Total
Number  Cost   Number   Cost   Number  Cost   Number  Cost   Number   Cost   Number   Cost
4'wheel drive vehicle            23       759    21        693    15        495    14        462    16         528      89    2,937
Ttactor                          25       825    16         528    14       462    11        363    12         396      78    2,574
Trailer                          25       100    16          64    14        56    11         44    12          48      78       312
Rotovaters                       10        44    10          44    12        53      8        35      3         13      43       189
HIOughs                          10        33    10          33    12        40      8        26      3         16      43       142
TTactor-grader                              -      -          -      8      400      2       100      -           -     10       500
Truck                             -         -      -          -      8      480      2       120      -          -      10       600
M4bile training unit              -         -      2         88      -         -     -          -     -           -       2        88  W
Bi4s                              -         -      1        100-    -         -      -         -      -           -       1      100
PiCk-up                           -         -      -          -      3        50     -          -     -           -       1        50
Subtotal                        1,761             1,550           2 036            1,150                995             7,492
Physical contingencies (10%)             176               155             204              115               100                750
Total                           1,937             1,705            2,240           1,265              1,095             8,242



-54 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Palm Oil Processing Facilities Costs by Year
(M$ 000)
1981      1982      1983      1984      1985     Total
Bukit Kepong
Design and supervision           175        82        50         -         -       307
Access road (2 miles)            600         -         -         -         -       600
Mill construction & equip.  2,000    4,500    2,055              -         -    8,555
Staff quarters                     -       650       260         -         -       910
Subtotal                   2,775    5,232    2,365            -         -   10,372
Nasaruddin
Design and supervision           160        75        45         -        40       320
Access road (2 miles)            600         -         -         -         -       600
Mill construction & equip.  1,400    2,900    1,485              -    2,860    8,645
Staff quarters                     -       500       230         -       205       935
Subtotal                   2,160    3,475    1,760            -    3,105   10,500
Total
Design and supervision           335       157        95        15        25       627
Access road (4 miles)          1,200         -         -         -         -    1,200
Mill construction & equip.  3,400    7,400    3,540            953    1,907   17,200
Staff quarters                     -    1,150        490        68       137    1,845
Base Cost                  4,935    8,707    4,125    1,036    2,069   20,872
Physical contingencies             613       871       413       104       207    2,208
Total                      5,548    9,578    4,538    1,140    2,276   23,080



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Table 6
Page 1
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Projected FELCRA Staff Positions, 1980-85
1980                                    1985
Autho-  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985    Total
rized   -- Incremental positions ---  positions
Head Office
Director General                             1            -     -      -              1
Deputy Director-General (Operations)         1                                        1
Deputy Director-General (Administration)    -         -   1     -     -      -        1
Directors - Engineering                      1      -     -     -      -     -        1
Management Services              1      -     -     -     -     -         1
Finance                          1      -     -     -     -     -         1
Agriculture                     -                                         I -  -  -  -  1
Program Development             -       -     1    -      -     -         1
Settler Development             -       -     -     1    -      -         1
Operations                      -       1     -     -     -     -         1
EDP                             -       -     -     -     -      1        1
Personnel and Training          -       -     -     -     1     -         1
Marketing and Processing         -      -     -     I    -      -         1
Subtotal (Director and above)             5      2     2     2      1     1       13
Department Heads
Budget and Planning                        1      -    -1     -     -      -        -
Budget                                     -      -     -     1     -      -        1
Planning                                   -      -     -      1     -     -        1
Finance                                    1      -    -1     -      -     -        -
Financial Controller                       -      -     1     -      -     -        1
Settler Development (commercial)           1      -     -     -     _      _        1
Settler Development (home economics)       -      -     -     1    - I              1
Procurement                              .1       -     -     -      -     -        1
Personnel                                  1      -     -     -      -     -        1
Training                                   -      1     -     -      -     -        1
General Administration                     -      1     -     -      -     -        1
Land                                       -      1     -     -      -     -        1
Audit                                      I      -     -     -      -     -        1
Marketing                                  I      -     -     -      -     -        1
Processing                                 -      1     -     -     -      -        1
Agriculture                                1      -     -     -     -      -        I
EDP                                        -      1     -     -     -    -1         -
Subtotal (Department Heads)               8      5    -1     3     -    -1        14



56-                                          ANNEX 1
Table 6
Page 2
1980   1981  1982  1983  1984  1985    1985
Autho-  -- Incremental positions ---    Total
rized                                    position
Other Senior Staff
Senior engineer                              -      -      1     1      -     -         2
Senior surveyor                              -      -      1     -      -     -         I
Senior administrative officer                1      3      2     2      -     -         8
Senior agricultural officer                  1      1      -     -      -     -         2
Accountant                                   2      -      -     -      -     -         2
Surveyor                                     2      -      -     -      -     -         2
Engineer                                     3      -.   -       -      -     -         3
Systems analyst                              -      1      -     -      -     -         1
Administrative officer                      19      5      6     -      2     3        35
Accounting officer                           3      4      -     1      -     2        10
Agricultural officer                         9     -4                -                  5
Senior accountant                            1      1      -     -      -     -         2
Transport mananager                          -      -      -     1      -     -         1
Subtotal (Other senior staff)              41     11    10      5      2     5        74
Grade B                                     51     24      -     3      7     2        87
Grade C                                    152     53    14    31.   5    18          273
Grade D                                     67     16      2     2      5     8       100
Total Head Office                         323    113    26    45    19    34         560
Regional and State Offices
Regional controller                            1       3     1     -      -     -         5
State officer                                  8     -2      5     1      1     1        14
Engineer                                       3      2      -     -      3     2        10
Agricultural officer                           1      -      4     -      -     -         5
Administrative officer                         I      -      4     -      -     -         5
Subtotal (Regional and State Offices)   14         3    14      1     4      3        39
Grade B                                   .24      16    48    13       3     8       122
Grade C                                     52     32    42    52    21    17         214
Grade D                                   106      20    24    18    23       7      194
Total Regional/State Offices             196    171   122    84    51    35         559
Schemes
Grade B                                    108     26    23    23    22    27        229
Grade C                                   803    110   139   133   126   123    1,434
Grade D                                   337      85    72    60    70    70        694
-1, 249    2271   2214   11EA  2'1-   2-203 1-A



-57-                                 ANNEX 1
Table 7
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Project Staff Requirements
Position/Grade                             1981     1982      1983      1984     1985
Head Office
Grade A
Directors and above                       1        2         3        3         4
Department heads                          3        3         3         3        3
Administrative                            5       10        12        14       16
Professional                             2         3         5        5         6
Subtotal                            11        18       23        25        29
Grade B
Administrative                           -         -         -         1        1
Technical/professional                  12        12        13       16        17
Grade C
Clerical/stenographic                   23        25        36       38        49
Technical                                2         2         2        2         2
Trainee field assistants                 6        12        18       18        18
Grade D
Clerical/stenographic                    5         6         9        9        13
Technical                                4         4         4        4         4
Drivers, office boys, etc.                9       10        15       16        21
Subtotal Main Office                63        79      107       116       137
Regional/State Offices
Grade A
Regional controller/State officers        2        6         7        7         8
Administrative                            -        2         2         2        2
Professional                              1        3         3        5         6
Grade B
Group managers                            6       12        18       18        21
Administrative                            -        2         2         2        2
Technical/professional                    4       23        25        27       29
Group C
Clerical/stenographic                   18        36        63       72        81
Technical                                 2        7        11        15       16
Subtotal                            20        43       74        87        97
Grade D
Clerical/stenographic                     8        8         9       20        11
Drivers, office boys, etc.                5       15        22        29       32
Subtotal Regional/State Offices   63          79      107       116       137
Schemes
Grade B:  Managers                         21       39        53        65       78
Grade C:  Supervisors                      10       22        37        69       55
Field assistants                57       119      168       208       246
Clerks                          15        30       48        66       87
Subtotal                            82       171      253       323       388
Grade D:  Clerical/stenographic             9       16        28        36       39
Drivers etc.                    53        95      128       158       190
Subtotal Schemes                   165       321      462       582       695
Total                              274       514      731       885    1,040



- 58 -
ANNEX 1
Table 8
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Project Management Cost by Year
(M$ 000)
Item                        1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      Total
Staff Salaries
Head Office
Grade A                        285       456       592       649       782    2,764
Grade B                        136       138       149       206       221       850
Grade C                        232       281       417       440       546    1,916
Grade D                         61        66        89       101       126       443
Subtotal                     714       941    1,247    1,396    1,675    5,973
Regional/State Offices
Grade A                         75       212       230       273       314    1,104
Grade B                        170       512       659       699       801    2,841
Grade C                        134       304       508       607       689    2,242
Grade D                         50        86       115       147       164       562
Subtotal                     429    1,114    1,512    1,726    1,968    6,749
Schemes
Grade B                        248       466       643       812       995    3,164
Grade C                        482    1,024    1,544    2,024    2,483    7,557
Grade D                        243       440       628       801       955    3,067
Subtotal                     973    1,930    2,815    3,637    4,433   13,788
Total Salaries             2,116    3,985    5,574    6,759    8,076   26,510
Overhead /a                        752    1,504    2,161    2,697    3,202   10,316
Technical Assistance
Agric. Planning Adviser          138       206       206       206        69       825
Land Consolidation                34        86        86        69        34       309
Short-term Consultancies         313       214       109        99       104       839
Consultant Studies               100       300       300       300       300    1,300
Subtotal                     585       806       701       674       507    3,273
Total Base Cost            3,453    6,295    8,436   lO l32 1,710              .
Physical Contingencies             345       630       844    1,013    1,178    4,010
Total                      3,798    6,925    9,280   11,143   12,963   44,109
/a  $38 per acre under FELCRA management.



- 59 -
ANNEX 1
Table 9
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Training Costs by Year
(M$O000)
Item                             1981      1982      1983      1984      1985     Total
Materials
Teaching Equipment               10        15        10        10        10       55
Books & materials (staff)        10        10        10        10        10        50
Books & materials (settlers)  10           15        15        15        15        70
Teaching materials                6         7         7         7         7        34
Subtotal                   36        47        42        42        42       209
Training
Trainee subsistence             105       140      140       141       141       667
In-servize training              58       135       152      163        174      682
Short courses                    50       100       100      100       100       450
Subtotal                  213       375       392       404       415    1,799
Management
Staff salaries                  192       241      241       241       241    1,156
Overhead /a                      77        96        96        96        96      461
Technical assistance            155       206       206        51         -      618
Consultancy                       -         -         -         -        40        40
Subtotal                  424       543       543       388       377    2,275
Total                     673       965       977       834       834    4,283
Physical Contingencies             67        97        98        83        83       428
Total                     740    1,062    1,075         917       917    4,711
/a 40% of salaries.



- 60 -
ANNEX 1
Table 10
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Total Costs by Year
(M$ 000)
Item                        1981     1982      1983      1984     1985      Total
Agricultural Development
Land clearance/planting    13,895   17,065   15,639   13,097   11,802   71,498
Materials                        80    1,034    2,219    3,456    4,682   11,471
Agricultural tracks               -       266      467    2,675    2,065    5,473
Casual labor & sundries         186      972    4,497    8,240   11,173   25,068
Subtotal               14,161   19,337   22,822   27,468   29,722  113,510
Infrastructure
Roads                         1,546    3,055    2,659    2,791    3,073   13,124
Buildings                     1,738    3,245    3,420    3,243    2,758   14,404
Water                           370       644      644       557       487    2,702
Electricity                     374       665      665       557       522    2,783
Subtotal                4,028    7,609    7,388    7,148    6,840   33,013
Vehicles & Equipment            1,761    1,550    2,036    1,150         995    7,492
Processing Facilities           4,935    8,707    4,125    1,036    2,069   20,872
Training
Materials                        36        47       42        42        42      209
In-service training             163      275       292       304      315    1,349
External courses                 50       100      100       100       100      450
Salaries & overhead             269      337       337       337      337    1,617
Technical assistance            155      206       206        51       40       658
Subtotal                  673       965       977      834       834    4,283
Management
Salaries                     2,116    3,985    5,574    6,759    8,076   26,510
Overhead                        752    1,504    2,161    2,697    3,202   10,316
Technical assistance            172      292       292       275      103    1,134
Short-term consultancies
& studies                    413       514       409      399       404    2,139
Subtotal                3,453    6,295    8,436   10,130   11,785   40,099
Total Base Cost        29, A   6,4,46    45,1t4   4-7 ,?66   52,245  219,269
Physical Contingencies          3,408    5,181    5,289    5,463    5,884   25,225
Price Contingencies               729    5,555   10,255   15,479   22,531   54,549
Total                  33,148   55,199   61,328   68,708   80,660  299,043



- 61, -
ANNEX 1
Table 11
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Project Financing Plan
(M$°000)
Federal government
Grant            Loan.             IBRD
Amount      %    Amount       %    Amount      %    Total
Agricultural Development
Land clearing/planting           -      -   35,749       50   35,749    50   71,498
Materials                        -      -   11,471    100           -      -   11,471
Agricultural tracks              -      -    5,473    100           -      -    5,473
Casual labor & sundries          -      -   25,068    100           -      -   25,068
Subtotal                     -       -   77,761       69   35,749    31  113,510
Infrastructure
Roads                       8,531      65         -       -    4,593    35   13,124
Buildings                   9,363      65         -       -    5,041    35   14,404
Water                       2,702    100          -       -         -      -    2,702
Electricity                 2,783    100          -       -         -      -    2,783
Subtotal                 23,379      71         -       -    9,634    29   33,013
Vehicles & Equipment           2,977      40         -      -    4,495    60    7,492
Processing Facilities              -       -   13,567      65    7,305    35   20,872
Training
Materials                      209    100         -       -         -      -      209
In-service training         1,349    100          -       -         -      -    1,349
External courses                90      20        -       -       360    80       450
Salaries & overhead         1,617    100          -       -         -      -    1,617
Technical assistance           132     20         -       -       526    80       658
Subtotal                  3,397      79         -       -       886    21    4,283
Management
Salaries                   26,510    100          -       -         -      -   26,510
Overhead                   10,316    100          -       -         -      -   10,316
Technical assistance           227     20         -       -       907    80    1,134
Consultancies & studies        428     20         -       -    1,711    80    2,139
Subtotal                 37,481      93         -       -    2,618      7   40,099
Total Base Cost          67,254      31   91,328       42   60,687    27  219,269
Physical contingencies         8,976      36   10,078      39    6,171    25   25,225
Price contingencies           18,035      32   23,829      44   12,685    24   54,549
Total                    94,265      31  125,235       42   79,543    27  299,043



-62 -                             ANNEX 1
Table 12
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
IBRD fiscal year                                       Accumulated disbursements
and semester                                         (US$ million equivalent)
FY82 - 2nd                                                       3.0
FY83 - 1st                                                       5.5
2nd                                                       9.1
FY84 - 1st                                                      13.5
2nd                                                      18.1
FY85 - 1st                                                      22.6
- 2nd                                                      25.8
FY86 - 1st                                                      29.0
- 2nd                                                      32.7
FY87 - 1st                                                      37.0



- 63 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 1
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Technology and Production Specifications
A. Rubber
1.        Land Preparation.  Standard practices for land preparation would
be followed by contractors, who would work under FELCRA supervision. Land
clearing and burning would be carried out manually between October and
April/May. Because of the nature of the terrain, terracing would be
necessary over about 40% of the plantable area, and would be carried out
mechanically, unless slopes are such that machine operation is dangerous, in
which case manual terracing would be done. For erosion and weed control a
cover crop of Pueraria phaseoloides (4 lb/acre) or Centrosema Pubescens (2
lb/acre), with Calopogonium mucunoides (6 lb/acre) would be planted.
2.        Planting.  A high planting density of 207 trees per acre would be
used to create a closed canopy at an early stage, to shade out weeds and
reduce maintenance. The seed-at-stake planting method would be used. Clonal
budwood for scions would be purchased from RISDA, RRIM or private nurseries.
FELCRA would establish small polybag nurseries to provide replacement
material. Clonal choice for particular schemes would be based upon RRIM
recommendations, which take into account principal conditions and proposed
practices for each scheme, i.e., soil properties, slope, disease incidence,
the likelihood of strong winds, and expected tapping regime, and be based on
the characteristics of individual clones. Given the rather difficult
conditions in which many schemes are located, i.e., relatively steep terrain
and shallow soils, it is anticipated that GTI would be the most extensively
used clone.
3.        Maintenance.  The major land development contractor would be
responsible for land preparation, planting and maintenance for a total of
two years. Following planting, monthly weeding would be carried out for the
balance of this period. Subsequent weeding would be undertaken by local
contractors or by casual labor (principally participants) hired directly by
FELCRA. Fertilizer application would be based on soil and foliar analyses
carried out by RRIM. Based on past experience, applications are expected to
peak in the fifth and sixth year after planting, when about 300 lb/ac of
Sulphate of Ammonia (or equivalent), 125 lb of Rock Phosphate, 65 lbs of
Muriate of Potash and 50 lbs of Kieserite per acre would be applied.
4.        Tapping.  Tapping would be carried out by labor employed directly
by the scheme. Scheme participants would be encouraged to undertake this
work, and given appropriate training. Normal market wages for the areas
would be paid.  This method allows better control of tapping intensity
and standards than allocating individual lots, and requiring lot holders to
undertake tapping. An alternate daily tapping regime would be followed, /1
/1 In schemes where labor shortages were experienced, a shift to third day
tapping together with ethrel stimulation would be expected. This would
not increase per acre tapping cost, but has not been assumed here
because of uncertainties involved.



- 64 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
and particular attention would be paid to the angle of the slope of the
cut, bark consumption and depth of tapping to prevent wounding.
5.        Yield.  Because of varied conditions experienced, yields are not
expected to match those on private estates.  An overall average peak yield
of 1,700 lb/ac is projected with an average yield of 1,320 lb/ac over the
whole tapping life of 23 years (see Table 2)./l Many schemes being rehabil-
itated have small areas of poor quality producing rubber which are usually
cleared and replanted. It has been estimated that this would amount to 15%
of the area to be rehabilitated, and that the yield curve for this old rubber
would have had a peak yield of 900 lb/ac and a tapping life of 14 years,
in the absence of the project.
B. Oil Palm
6.        Land Preparation and Planting-  Land preparation for oil palm
would be carried out by contractor, as for rubber. Areas selected for oil
palm would be predominantly flat or gently sloped, and it is assumed that
full terracing would not be required. Over about 20% of the area, tree
platforms would be constructed to assist in erosion control. A cover crop
would also be planted of similar composition to that used for rubber.
Areas selected for oil palm would not be isolated. Satisfactory planting
material is available in Malaysia from conmmercial suppliers (principally
estate companies) and this source would be used by FELCRA. A planting
density of 60 palms per acre would be used.
7.        Maintenance.  The major land development contractor would be
responsible for land preparation, planting and maintenance for a total of
two years. Following planting, monthly weeding would be carried out for the
balance of this period. Subsequent maintenance would be carried out by
local contractors or by casual labor (predominantly settlers), hired
directly by FELCRA. Castration would be carried out monthly during the
period between the 14th and 24th months after planting. Assisted
pollination would also be undertaken starting in the 24th month after
planting. Fertilizer application would be based on the results of annual
soil and foliar analyses. Based on past experience, application is expected
to increase to about 220 lbs of Sulphate of Ammonia, 150 lb/ac of Rock
Phosphate, 300 lbs of Muriate of Potash and 90 lbs of Kieserite, in the
fourth year after planting.
8.        Yield.  Harvesting would be carried out by labor hired directly
by the scheme. Settlers would be encouraged to undertake this work and
provided with appropriate training. Because of its limited tolerance of
adverse growing conditions, oil palm would be restricted to areas of better
soil and terrain, with adequate soil moisture. As a result it is expected
that only about 25% of the total area to be developed under the project
wouia bie planted to the crop.  Yields are expected to peak in the seventh
year of production at just below 9 tons f.f.b. per ac, (see Table 4).
/1 Adoption of third day tapping and ethrel stimulation would not signifi-
cantly alter the yield curve, under good management.



- 65 -                                      ANNEX 2
Table 1
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Rubber - Field Development Costs per Acre (M$) /a
----------------------- Year -----------------------
Activity                      0      1     2      3      4     5      6,     7     8    Total
(3 mths)
Felling & burning               160   149                                                    309
Land preparation                       233                                                   233
Establishment of
cover crop                            69                                                    69
Planting seed at stake                  34                                                    34
Budgrafting                                   70                                               70
Maintenance of crop area                36   162   167   152   156   103    76    76    928
Supplying                                     19      9                                       28
Manuring - labor                         1      5     7      7      7     8      8      8     51
- materials                    9    47    62    60    66    67    67    67    445
Pest: and disease control
- labor                                      3      3      3     3      3      3     3      21
- materials                                  3      3      3     3      3      3     3      21
Agricultural roads
and bridges                          33    15    11    58    11    11    11    11    161
Drains                                  45      2     2      2      2     2      2      2     59
Tools and supplies                                                              72      5     77
Tapping (second half
year 8)                                                                             78      78
Latex collection (second
half year 8)                                                                          5      5
Other                                   10      3     3      3      3     3      3      3      31
Total Base Cost           160   619   329   267   288   251   200   245   261  2,620
Physical contin-
gencies (10%)                  16    62    33    27    29    25    20    25    26    263
Total Cost                176   681   362   294   317   276   220   270   287  2,883
/a Cost per acre planted.



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
Table2
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Projected Yield: Rubber
Without project /a               With project
S/2.d/1.20dj/30.10m/
12.111% /b              S/2.d/2.10m/12.83% /b
Years                       No. of                         No. of
from        Year of       tappable         Yield         tappable         Yield
planting      tapping       trees/ac       lb DRCIac       trees/ac       lb DRC/ac
8            1/c             -             -                75           130
9            2             140           310              160            700
10            3             148           510              180          1,000
11            4             148           660              180          1,250
12            5             144           780              180          1,350
13            6             140           850              176          1,400
14            7             134           900              172          1,450
15            8             128           825              168          1,500
16            9             120           750              164          1,550
17           10             112           675              160          1,700/d
18           11             104           600              156          1,700
19           12              94           520              152         1,700
20           13              84           440              148          1,600
21           14              72           360              144          1,550
22           15              60           350/e            140          1,450
23           16                -            -              136          1,350
24           17               -             -              132          1,250
25           18               -             -               128         1,150
26           19                -            -               124         1,000
27           20               -             -              120            900
28           21               -             -              115            800
29           22               -             -              110            700
30           23               -             -              105          1,000/e
/a  Applies to existing State land development schemes scheduled for reha-
bilitation, of which typically only about 15% of the area is developed
and under tapping.
/b  Tapping system.
/c  First trees reach maturity in the middle of year 8.
T7   Starting ethrel stimulation.
/e  Slaughter tapping before felling.



-67 -                                            ANNEX 2
Table 3
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Oil Palm - Field Development Costs per Acre (M$) /a
-    --------------- Year ----------------------
Activity                          0       1       2      3       4       5      6       Total
(3 mths)                                     (6 mths)
Felling & burning                   142    140                                              282
Land preparation                             92                                               92
Planting material                           153      19      6                              178
PlanLting                                    42       6      2                                50
Establishment of cover crop                  65                                               65
Maintenance of crop area                     38    147    147    157    123         30       642
Manuring - labor                                      9       9     15      12       6        51
- materials                                58     82    112    142        71      465
Pest: and disease and sanitation
- labor                                            3       3       9      11      5        31
- materials                                         3      3       3       3       2       14
Castration, pollination                                     25      56      56      28      165
Agr:Lcultural roads and bridges              39      15      12    209      12       6       293
Drains                                       63       3       3      3       3       2        77
Harvesting                                                          30      81      53       164
Oth,er                                       10       3       3     10       6       3        35
Total Base Cost                142    642    266    295    604    449    206    2,604
Physical contingencies (10%)         14      64      27      30     60      45      21       261
Total Cost                     156    706    293    325    664    494    227    2,865
/a Cost per acre planted.



_68_                                 ANNEX  2
Table 4
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Projected Yield: Oil Palm
Years                        Yield          Years                          Yield
from         Year of         tons          from           Year of          tons
planting    harvesting         FFB/ac       planting      harvesting        FFB/ac
4             1            1.0             18             15             7.2
5             2            3.1             19             16             7.0
6             3            5.0             20             17             6.8
7             4            7.2             21             18             6.6
8             5            8.5             22             19             6.5
9             6            8.5             23             20             6.4
10             7            8.9             24             21             6.3
11             8            8.9             25             22             6.1
12             9            8.4             26             23             6.0
13            10            8.4             27             24             5.9
14            11            8.0             28             25             5.8
15            12            7.7             29             26             5.6
16            13            7.6             30             27             5.5
17            14            7.4



- 69 -
ANNEX 3
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Projected Cashflow, Bukit Kepong Oil Mill
(M$ '000)
Item                       1981      1982      1983     1984      1985      1986      1987   1988/89   1990-94
Receipts
(Government loan            3,113    5,755    3,702           -        -         -          -         -          -
'ales - Palm oil                 -        -    7,302   13,916   17,328   18,541    19,927    20,794    20,201
- Palm kernel             -         -    1,232    2,218    2,952    3,159        3,395      3,542     3,442
Total Receipts        3413    5,755   12,236   16,134   20,80   21,700    23,322    24,336    23,643
Payments
Capital expenditure         3,113    5,755    3,702          -         -         -         -          -          -
FFB purchases /a                 -        -    6,800   12,240   15,100   16,157    17,365    18,120    18,951
Processing cos7ttb               -        -       728    1,399    1,450    1,485       1,526      1,551      1,551
Loan repayment /c                -        -         -         -    2,108    2,108      2,108      2,108      2,108
Total Payments        3,113    5,755   11,230   13,639   18,658   19,750    20,999    21,779    21,059
Annual surplus/deficit ( )         -         -    1,006    2,495    1,622    1,950       2,323      2,557      2,584
1995     1996      1997      1998     1999      2000      2001       2002
Receipts
Government loan                  -        -         -         -        -         -          -         -
Sales - Palm oil           20,201   19,864   19,359   19,022   18,181   17,507    17,002    16,329
- Palm kernel         3,442    3,384    3,298    3,241    3,097    2,983         2,897      2,782
Total Receipts       23,643   23,248   22,657   22,263   21,278   20,490    19,899    19,111
Payments
Capital expenditure              -        -         -         -        -         -          -         -
FFB purchases /a           17,400   17,110   16,675   16,385   15,660   15,080    14,645    14,065
Processing cost /b           1,551    1,541    1,526    1,516    1,490    1,470         1,455     1,435
Loan repayment |c                -         -        -         -         -        -          -         -
Total Payments       18,951   18,651   18,201   17,901   17,150   16,550    16,100    15,500
Annual surplus/deficit ( )   4,692    4,597    4,456    4,362    4,128    3,940           3,799     3,611
la  Using ex-scheme FFB prices as derived in Annex 4, Table 2, adjusted for transport cost scheme-mill (M$20).
/b  Direct and indirect manufacturing costs, i.e. labor, factory management, fuel, maintenance, packaging,
insurance, interest on working capital, and miscellaneous. Excludes interest on long-term loans and
depreciation of assets.
/c  Assumed loan conditions:  four-year grace period with interest (6-1/2%) capitalization, and repayment of
principal and interest in 10 equal annual installments.



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Derivation of Economic Prices
1.        Project output prices for rubber and palm oil and kernels are
based on the Bank's commodity price projections for 1985 and 1990 expressed
in constant first quarter 1981 dollars, adjusted for international freight,
local marketing costs and quality differentials. Details of these calcula-
tions are given in Tables 1 and 2. Other prices, with the exception of
labor, are based on present financial levels, inflated through to March/April
1981 constant currency values and adjusted by standard conversion factors,
which take account of the distortions between Malaysian internal and
external price levels. These are summarized in Table 5.
2.        Labor was divided into two categories in calculating its economic
cost. The economic wages of FELCRA staff were taken to be equal to their
financial wages since skilled manpower and middle-level staff are in
relatively short supply and it is sometimes difficult to fill positions,
particularly in technical fields, or posts in outlying areas. The local
economic conditions and labor market characteristics for field labor will
vary widely among individual schemes which would be used. The majority
are expected to be in relatively remote or inaccessible locations. As a
result, at least at the inception of the project, a considerable degree of
local underemployment will be the norm, although the circumstances of
individual households will vary. In carrying out the economic analysis of
the project an economic wage of 0.70 times the financial wage rate was
assumed. Given the overall rapid growth rate of the Malaysian economy it is
possible that local labor market conditions will tighten. As one variant of
the sensitivity analysis the economic wage was assumed to increase steadily
as a proportion of the financial wage, equality being reached in 1990.
Cost and Benefit Streams
3.        Benefits were considered as the total value of the incremental
agricultural production of the schemes, i.e., the incremental quantities
multiplied by the economic prices derived from border prices. For fringe
schemes there is no loss in production since the land to be developed is
not currently in agricultural use. On rehabilitation schemes preproject
production is usually small. It was assumed that 15% of the area
rehabilitated was under low yielding but productive rubber preproject, and
that production would have continued for eight years if redevelopment was not
un(lertbm
4.        Costs attributed to the land development schemes in addition
to field development and operating costs were the construction and
maintenance of access roads to the scheme, housing for essential scheme



- 71 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
staff, scheme offices and provision of water and electricity to these
buildings, the provision and operation of vehicles and equipment, salaries of
staff assigned to the scheme, and FELCRA overhead staff and support costs
attributed to the scheme. Included in the cost streams were physical
contingencies of 20% on construction of civil works and 10% on other items.
5.        The results of the economic analyses of the four types of schemes
in the project are summarized in Table 3./1 A sensitivity analysis was not
carried out for the land development component as a whole. The rate of
return to the component was estimated by aggregating the net benefit streams
from the tentative programs for four types of schemes. This aggregate rate
of return was 17%.
6.        The two proposed palm oil mills under the project were appraised
separately since they have not been designed specifically to serve the oil
palm planted under the project, but would cater to FELCRA's existing oil
palm schemes. Results of the analyses are summarized in Table 4.11
7.        Benefits were estimated as the value of palm oil and kernels ex-mill
valued at border prices. Costs attributable to the mill were construction
cost, delivered cost of oil palm fruit, and mill operating and staffing
costs (including fuel, maintenance, packaging, insurance and miscellaneous
costs).
/1   Detailed calculations are presented in Working Paper C.l4 in the
Project File.



-72                                                ANNEX 4
Table 1
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Economic and Financial Price Calculations - Rubber
(March 1981 prices)
1981               1982               1985          -    1990
Econ-   Finan-    Econ-   Finan-    Econ-   Finan-    Econ-   Finan-
omic     cial      omic     cial      omic      cial     omic      cial
RSS I Spot NY USc/kg /a        166.0    166.0    167.0    167.0    171.0    171.0    187.0    187.0
Less ocean freight and
insurance                     15.0      15.0      15.0     15.0      15.0     15.0      15.0      15.0
FOB Malaysian port USc/kg       151.0    151.0    152.0    152.0    156.0    156.0    172.0    172.0
FOB Malaysian port M¢/lb        147.4    147.4    148.4    148.4    152.3    152.3    167.9    167.9
Weighted FOB value scheme
produce M¢/lb /b             144.5    144.5    145.5    145.5    149.3    149.3    164.6    164.6
Less weighted export duty /c              37.0               37.5                39.4               47.1
Less research cess                         1.0                 1.0                1.0                1.0
Less replanting cess                       4.5                4.5                 4.5                4.5
Less weighted marketing,
processing, transport
cost Id, /e                    8.0      12.0       8.0     12.0       8.0     12.0       8.0     12.0
Weighted ex-scheme price          137       90       138        91      141        92      157       100
/a  World Bank commodity price forecast in 1977 constant US$, adjusted to March 1981 prices.
/b  Scheme output consists of 35% RSS I, 45% RSS III and 20% scrap.  On the basis of DRC, RSS III
value is 97% of RSS I. Scrap is normally processed into SMR 20 before exportation. For
purpose of export duty calculation, value of SMR 20 was taken equivalent to RSS III.
/c  Export duty schedule based on gazetted FOB prices for different grades in M¢/lb: on first 60C- 0%;
on next 5c - 20%; on next 5¢ - 25%; on next 5c - 30%; on next 5¢ - 35%; on next 5¢ - 40%; on next
5¢ - 45%; on balance - 50%.
/d  Based on all inclusive Mardec fee of lOc/lb for RSS I and RSS III, and 20¢/lb for scrap.
Ie  Economic cost figure derived by using trade conversion factor of 0.67.



-73-                                                     ANNEX 4
Table 2
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Economic and Financial Price Calculations - Oil Palm
(March 1981 constant prices per metric ton)
1981           1982            1985           1990
Econ-  Finan-  Econ-  Finan-  Econ-  Finan-  Econ-  Finan-
omic    cial   omic    cial   omic    cial   omic    cial
Palti Oil
C.i.f. NW European port /a                634    634      642    642     691    691      667    667
Less ocean freight                         45      45      45     45       45     45      45     45
Less insurance and normal losses            3       3       3      3        3      3       3       3
F.o.b. Malaysian port                     586    586      594    594     643    643      619    619
K$/MT
F.o.b. Malaysian port                   1,260  1,260   1,277  1,277   1,382  1,382   1,331  1,331
Less port charges /b                        2       2       2      2        2      2       2       2
Less handling, storage and transport
to port /b                               32     48       32     48      32      48      32     48
Less export duty /c                         -    359        -    368        -    420       -    395
Ex-mill price                           1,226    851   1,243    859   1,348    912   1,297    886
Palm Kernel
US$/MT
Nigerian c.if. NW European port /a        373    373      415    415      528    528     509    509
Less ocean freight                         45      45      45     45       45     45      45     45
Less insurance and normal losses            2       2       2      2        2      2       2      2
F.o.b. Malaysian port                     326    326      368    368      481    481     462    462
-M$/MT
F.o.b. Malaysian port                     701    701      791    791   1,034  1,034      993    993
Less port charges /b                        2       2       2      2        2      2       2      2
Less handling, storage and transport
to port /b                               32     48       32     48      32      48      32     48
Less export duty /c                          -     80       -    125        -    246       -    226
Ex-mill price                             667    571      657    616   1,000    738      959    717
Fresh Fruit Bunches
M$/MT
Value of oil equivalent (19%)/d           233    162      236    163      256    173     246    168
Value of kernel equivalent (4%)             27     23      26     25       40     30      38      29
Ex-mill equivalent price                  260    185      262    188      296    203     284    197
Less processing cost /b                    28      32      28     32       28     32      28      32
Less overheads /b                           18     20      18     20       18     20      18      20
Less transport to mill /b                   13     20      13     20       13     20      13     20
Ex-scheme price                            201    113     203    116      237    131     225    125
/s  World Bank commodity price forecast in 1977 constant US$ adjusted to March 1981 prices.
/b  Economic cost figures derived by using standard conversion factors:  port charges - 0.80; hand-
ling, storage and transport (combined) - 0.67; processing - 0.89; overheads - 0.89; transport -
0.66.
/c  Export duty formula palm oil and kernel for P >  689: 0.50 P - 271, where P = f.o.b. price in M$.
/d  Oil extraction rate at full development; actual extraction rates in first three to four produc-
tion years of oil palm trees somewhat lower due to immaturity of fruits.



MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Representative Scheme Models
Rehabilitation-                            Fringe
Rubber             Oil palm           Rubber              Oil palm
Rate of            Rate of            Rate of             Rate of
Case                  return    NPV      return    NPV       return    NPV      return    NPV
(%)   (M$ 000)    (%)   (M$ 000)    (%)   (M$'000)    (%)   (M$ 000)
Base case                             14.6    2,074      20.1    3,544       15.9    2,480      22.2    3,949
Crop value 10% down                   13.1    1,334      17.8    2,602       14.4    1,739      19.9    3,008
Crop value 10% up                     15.8    2,815      22.2    4,486       17.2    3,220      24.4    4,891
All cost 10% uP                       13.3    1,542      18.1    2,957       14.6    1,987      20.1    3,403
Physical contingencies excluded       15.8    2,549      22.2    4,089       17.3    2,954      24.7    4,494
FELCRA management input 50% down    16.0    2,631        22.1    4,135       17.5    3,037      24.5    4,540
Crop production delayed 1 year        13.2    1,474      17.3    2,783       14.4    1,880      19.1    3,189
Land development cost 10% up,
production cost delayed 1 year
and crop production delayed 1
year                                12.8    1,357      16.9    2,674      14.0    1,763       18.5    3,080
Shadow wage rate gradually
increasiqg to reach unity by
1990                                13.6    1,556      19.4    3,246      14.8    1,951       21.5    3,641
Real wage rates 10% up                14.3    1,942      19.8    3,445      15.6    2,348       21.9    3,851
L o
(D>



- 75 -
ANNEX 4
Table 4
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Economic Analysis Oil Mills
Bukit Kepong Mill          Nasaruddin Mill
Rate of                  Rate of
Case                                  return       NPV         return       NPV
(%)     (M$ 000)         (%)     (M$ 000)
Base case                               26.1      16,677         21.2       8,992
Output value, 10% down                  12.5       2,208         -5.7      -7,400
Output value, 10% up                    37.3      314146         37.0      25,383
All cost, 10% up                        13.9       3,,876        -1.1      -6,501
Investment cost, 20% up                 22.4      14,604         18.4       7,520
Factory labor cost, 20% up              25.5      15,967         20.5       8,339
Physical contingencies excluded         28.5      16,050         23.9      10,519
Mill commissioning date delayed
1 year                                25.5      14,370         18.3       7,153
Oil extraction rate, 5% down            16.3       5,252          12.7      1,910
Ffb purchase price, 5% up                16.4      5,437          12.9      2,064



- 76 -
ANNEX 4
Table 5
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
National Parameters
Conversion Factors
General                                                             0.89
Construction                                                        0.77
Construction materials                                              0.88
Furniture and household equipment                                   0.75
Transport equipment and parts                                       0.76
Investment goods                                                    0.85
Intermediate goods - consumer goods industries                      0.84
Other intermediate goods and miscellaneous                          0.90
Petroleum - diesel and oils                                         0.86
Agricultural inputs                                                 0.86
Government and other social services                                0.80
Trade                                                               0.67
Public utilities (water, communication)                             0.89
Transport                                                           0.66
Consumption conversion factor                                         0.80
Opportunity cost capital                                              0.10
Opportunity cost farm labor                                           0.70
Absolute poverty level income per capita (1981) /a                    $320 /c
Critical consumption level per capita (estimated 1995) /b             $860 7T
/a $300 in 1980.
/b One third of per capita GNP.
/c In 1981 prices.
Source: M.D. Veitch, National Parameters for Project Appraisal in Malaysia,
Volume III.



- 77 -                            ANNEX 5
MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Agriculture Sector
A.1   S. Selvadurai "Agriculture in Peninsular Malaysia" Ministry
of Agriculture, April 1978.
A.2   IBRD, "Malaysia - Agriculture and Rural Development",
Draft Country Sector Memorandum, June 1980.
A.3   IBRD, "Malaysia - Selected Issues in Rural Poverty," Report No.
2685-MA, January 1980.
A.4   K. Young, W.C.F. Bussink and P. Hasan, "Malaysia - Growth and
Equity in a Multiracial Society," IBRD, 1980.
B. General Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.1   FELCRA "FELCRA to the Year 2000" April 1979.
B.2   FELCRA "Proposed World Bank Package Loan - Project Information
Brief" undated.
B.3   FELCRA - Preappraisal on FELCRA Package I M4alaysia Plan. 1981-85".
3 Volumes. April 1980.
B.4   FELCRA "Socio-Economic Survey of Schemes" May 1980.
B.5   FELCRA "Report on FELCRA I Program.  Fourth Malaysia Plan
1981-85". 2 Volumes. July 1980.
B.6   Konsultant Proses Sdn Bhd.  "Feasibility Study for a Palm Oil Mill
at Bukit Kepong." July 1980.
B.7   Konsultant Proses Sdn Bhd.  "Feasibility Study for a Palm Oil Mill
at Nasaruddin." July 1980.
B.8   Veitch, MD, "National Parameters for Project Appraisal in
Malaysia," State & Rural Development Project, EPU, 1978.
C. Project Staff Working Papers
C.1   Organization
C.2   Management
C.3   Planning Capability
C.4   Staffing
C.5   Training
C.6   Financial Systems and Reporting
C.7   Consultant Management Information System Study
C.8   Agriculture Planning, Field Organization and Training Needs
C.9   Land Development Standards, Costs and Yield Assumptions
C.10  Infrastructure
C.11  Loan Recovery
C.12  Technical Assistance Terms of Reference
C.13  Land Issues
C.14  Economic and Financial Analysis



MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
PRESENT ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE
DE T  ABOARD         l
ACS PRSNNL POCREENT A NLND  _IN E  LA I  M T  FINANCEACOMMITTE        E
SECTIONS                                                                       SURV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~~~ESING BMECHAENICA  COMIVILE
DIRECTOR GENERAL
AU TO                                                                      DEPUTY
- -    DIRIECTOR GENERAL
I    DIRECTOR    |                      l   ~~~~~~~~DIRECTOR    l   lDRCO 
DEPARTMENTS                       |AMNSTRATION                                                   FINANC
BRANCHE[S                                       ADMINISTA |-
SECTIONS                                                                                                                                                              IN SIT
REGIONALOPPICES                                      JOHORE         JOHORE                     SEMBILAN                      PERLIS        MALACCA        A              PERAK
SCHEMES
World BMank - 22021



MlALAYSIA
FE LC RA I PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE
oard                ||Finance Committee |
i irector
_Generral    _Establishment Connmittee
Secretaiat
*   |Deputy Director General  ||Deputy Director General|
Administration                                                                                         Operations Division
Division
Diretor               Dietor                 Director                Director               Director                                      Director          *     Drco                     ietrDrco
Mangement Serices          Personnel               FnceE. D. P.                           Program Developmentl                              Settler Develop-          Dnineetrin             Agrcutura              M irectinoan
Departmq  ~     an Trainingand Evaluation                                                                                               mentAr
Departmvnt           <Deparme                 Departmen              Departme               DePartment                                     Department             Department              Department              Processing
Generl                                        ELCRA1                                       Feasibility 1
Adt                 Pertonnel               Account                Sems                    Studnies                                    Development                SurveY               InSectorate             Processing
Stcti                 S                       Seci                   Section                 Secin                 i                      Sectio                 Sci                     Setin nSaection
T,aiingandSetlerEvaluation                                                                       I                     Home
Training and     ~                        Programming             a                                                c      sC                                    Agriculture
taff Development  Accounts   and Special                                     E    nmirs                Civ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ServcesMarketing
H i                                                                                                                              Section~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U - ISeie
DvoeASecti              on|          i       Section           StudiesSection                                      Section  4                   o                                        SeReionn
Latid                   Staff              BudgetingI li
AdS Training                               and Control             Operations
|mlion  Section  Sectei FELCRA  ectionrsl  t FL Afcs   |StFC           Ofe| |ae               CR    fen|Section  Stion                 SectionfSection
Settler
Training
S'ection
Region 1                   Region 2                    Region 3                    Region 4                    Region 5
LER                         Regional Controller         Regional Controller         Regional Controller         Regional Controller         Regional Controller
T ra.iKning
School
State FELCRA Officers      State FELCRA Officers       State F-ELCRA Officers      State FELCRA Officam       State FELCRA Officer
| Kedah              |     J| lohore             {   | Pahang                      Kelantan                     East Malaysia                    Trans-Perak
[Ppe-rlis           j    |Malacca                |   |llNegeri Sembilan            Trengganu                                                   Project Manager
World Bank 22423



MALAYSIA
FELCRA I PROJECT
PLANNED REGIONAL STRUCTURE
| Regional Controller (5)  l
Engineer and Technical and Survey Assistants
Agricultural Officer
Settler Development Officer
Audit Examiner
Marketing Inspector
State FELCRA Officers
(1/20,000 Acres)
I
co
Group Managers
(1-3/State FELCRA Officer)
(W1 /Regional or 1/7,000 Acres)
Sen'ior Manager                                    |       Manager                                                 ie  nCag
|(Over 3,000 Acres)  ||(500-3,000 Acres)  |                                                                      Up to 500 Acres)|
World Bank -22223



IBRD 15400
100°   \  1020                                         1040     NOVEMBER 1980
MALAYSIA
DISTRIBUTION OF FELCRA LAND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
BY STATE
T-AILAN  D                                                     EXISTING SCHEMES,            PROPOSED F.M.P. SCHEMES(1981-1985)
THAILAN D                                   (1967-1980)              ~~~~~~~~~~~~FELCRA /  84,200Acres
\  >   -.  \\   1 fAn-Cm  S TRANS PERAK 32,200Acres
t \  <   (I                                                                          '.-.. OTHER 24,500 Acres
Total 304,856 Acres
PERLIS:           N                             \                               -   - STATE BOUNDARIES
L-N~        (                                        4--    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
If'S   N                                             0        40        8~ ~~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~0 120  160
S  23,056 Acres                              KILOMILETERS        125       50       75        100
...1KEDAH)
P. PI NAN  
~~] ,r~    PERAK        /16,700                 ,6    o
t       9 .                   A28e82Acress
\'                         l SLANOR                               PAANKELANTAN
TRANS PERAK   \1\\            ~          -     -227ce
~~ 2\                              -                ;53   C.                        -
32200   ~~~   ~~      ~                 ~~y~?   ~~-'-* ,TRENGGANU
F              ~~SOUTH
-40                                                                                                                                              40
72I531 Ac                               27E'0                         SlA
51,076 Acres
SELANGOR                           PA HANG
c-v
boundaries                         24,n o  thsmpd noim/yon ptt oftheWord n5,38  Acres
NEG                                        2,1000~ 
30                                               ~~~~~~~~~~MALAt~C
actepreadcersof tuhbne repor tn anc \t is' atahd Th(ee,aiosue nh
_   107°                                           T~~~~~~~~~~020   / J7u 040



