Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14718
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
CLARENDON ALUMINA PRODUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 3062-JM)
JUNE 26, 1995
Public Sector Modernization and
Private Sector Development Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currencv Unit = Jamaican Dollar (1$)
US$1.00 = J$33.0 May 1995
GLOSSARY
CAP           Clarendon Alumina Production Ltd.
EEC           European Economic Community
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
FRR           Financial Rate of Return
LME           London Metal Exchange
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
CLARENDON ALUMINA PRODUCTION PROJECT
(Loan 3062-3M)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  ......................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ....................                                              ii
Part 1 - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Background and Objectives .1
B.    Achievement of Objectives                         .2
C.        Major Factors Affecting the Project              .3
D.   Project Sustainability                          .5
E.  Bank Performance                                .5
F.   Borrower Performance                             .6
G.   Assessment of Outcome                            .7
H.  Future Operations                               .7
I.  Key Lessons Learned                              .7
Part H - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1  - Summary of Assessments                        .9
Table 2  - Related Bank Loans/Credits .10
Table 3 - Project Timetabi .10
Table 4  - Loan/Credit Disbursements .10
Table 5    -  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .11
Table 6    -  Key Indicators for Project Operation .12
Table 6A   -  Key Financial Indicators ....................................  13
Table 7    -  Studies Included in Project .................................... 14
Table 8A   -  Project Costs .....................................            15
Table 8B - Project Financing .16
Table 9 - Rate of Return.                                                    17
Table 10 - Status of Legal Covenants .18
Table 11   -  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .20
Table 12 - Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .20
Table 13 - Bank Resources: Missions .21
ANNEX A:    Project Completion Mission Aide Memoire ...........................................     22
ANNEX B:    Borrowers Contribution to the Report ...........................................  40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Dank authorization.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
CLARENDON ALUMINA PRODUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 3062-JM)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Clarendon
Alumina Production (CAP) Project, for which Loan 3062-JM in the amount of US$ 15
million was approved on May 6, 1989 and made effective on May 31, 1990.
The Loan was closed on December 31, 1994, to be compared with the
original closing date of December 31, 1993. Final disbursement took place on May 9,
1995. US$9.2 million was disbursed and a balance of US$ 5.8 was canceled. The project
was to be cofinanced by the European Economic Community (EEC); however, the EEC
money was not used because of eligibility difficulties.
The ICR was prepared by John Strongman, Task Manager, Industry and
Mining Division, Industry and Energy Department and reviewed by Peter van der Veen,
Krishna Challa and Constance Bernard. The borrower provided comments that were used
in finalizing the report. The Borrower also provided its own contribution to the report
which is annexed to the report.  In addition, the Borrower's views on Project
Implementation and Operation, the beneficiary's views on Project Implementation and
Operation and a Summary Operating Plan for 1995-99 prepared by the beneficiary are
included in the Project Completion Mission Aide Memoire which is also annexed to the
report.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission,
which visited Jamaica in January 1995. It is based on material in the project file and
discussions with representatives of the Borrowers staff and the beneficiary.






-ii-
JAMAICA
CLARENDON ALUMINA PRODUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 3062-JM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction.
In March 1985, the Government of Jamaica requested the Bank's advice
when two of the four alumina plants in the country closed due to the recession in the
world aluminum industry. The Government had a small 6% holding in the Clarendon
Alumina plant and, according to agreements with the majority shareholder ALCOA, could
keep the plant operating on its own account. The Government was considering re-opening
the Clarendon plant. At the request of the Government, a Bank mission reviewed the
Clarendon operations and found them competitive. The Government requested assistance
to finance re-opening on a sustainable basis and the project was initially appraised in July
1987. However, as world aluminum market conditions improved, ALCOA approached
the Government to re-negotiate the agreement and the proposed Bank project was put on
hold. A new 50/50 joint venture was established between the Government and ALCOA.
The Government then requested the Bank to help fund its share of the plant's five year
investment program. The Bank agreed and the project was re-appraised in March 1988
and a loan of US$15 million was approved in May 1989.
Project Objectives.
The objectives of the project were: (i) to sustain production and increase
efficiency at the Clarendon plant; (ii) to improve environmental conditions related to its
operations; (iii) to help establish the holding company (CAP) as an effective joint venture
partner; and (iv) to support sound sectoral policy. The objectives, unmodified during the
project, were clear, important for both the country and the sector, and realistic. With
hindsight, it appears that the project lacked explicit financial objectives.  CAP has
experienced financial difficulties in the early 1990's and, while it is not evident that
financial objectives would have caused a different outcome, they would have provided a
better context in which to examine and to improve CAP's performance.
Implementation Experience and Results.
The outcome of the project is considered satisfactory.
Achievement of Objectives. The project has substantially achieved its
objectives. (i) Production has been sustained, production costs have been reduced and
efficiency increased. Physical progress has been satisfactory although the timetable has
been stretched out due to difficult world alumina market conditions The project



iiiF
implementation period was five and one half years rather than four years as originally
planned which has slowed the build up of alumina production towards a targeted 900,000
tpy capacity (of which CAP's share is 50%). All project components are substantially
completed with the exception of a red mud lake for waste disposal which has been
postponed since it is not yet needed and cheaper waste disposal methods are presently
being studied. Since this was one of the largest components to be financed by the Bank,
and little other expenditures were eligible for Bank financing, US$5.8 million of the Bank
loan was cancelled. (ii) Emissions and pollution have been reduced, and the plant is in
compliance with Jamaica's standards for SO2 emission, suspended particulates and ground
water quality. The project included the resettlement of about 200 families which was
undertaken in a satisfactory manner. (iii) CAP has established itself as an effective joint
venture partner. (iv) The Government maintains a sound sectoral policy in terms of
encouraging private sector operation and ownership in the mining sector, with sound
regulatory and fiscal arrangements.
Project Financial Performance and Sustainability. The project costs,
which consist of the capital expenditure program for the plant, totalled US$98 million for
the five and one half years period compared with a plan of US$90 million for the four year
period. Thus, capital expenditures averaged US$17.8 million per year compared with a
plan of US$22.5 million per year. A shortfall in financing occured due to the project being
ineligible for funds expected from the European Economic Community. Additional
financing was mobilized by CAP from its main customer and from its shareholder through
additional equity funds. CAP was very profitable in the 1980's but experienced losses
during FY91-94, due to much lower product prices than expected. At the time of
appraisal, the Rate of Return for the Government was estimated at 54%. It has been re-
estimated as 26%, which is lower than initially expected but is still very good, confirming
that the re-opening decision was well warranted. The outlook for sustainability is very
positive.  The Government has established sound sectoral policies and satisfactory
institutional arrangements that are working to the benefit of the major stakeholders in the
sector.  The project has maintained its position as one of the lowest-cost alumina
operations in the world and is operated in a fully satisfactory manner by CAP's partner
ALCOA. Projections indicate that CAP's financial situation should steadily improve.
Key Factors Affecting the Project. Project performance was satisfactory in
terms of factors subject to Government control and in terms of factors subject to
implementing agency control. Project performance was substantially affected by the world
aluminum price which has been much lower than estimated at the time of appraisal. It
reached record lows during the 1992-94 period (but has recovered to much higher levels
since) and put CAP in financial difficulties in 1992-93. CAP's situation was improved by
an increase in Government equity and by amendments to the sales contract. In addition,
the plant operator has successfully placed emphasis on holding down and reducing cash
operating costs.
Bank Performance. The Bank's performance in project preparation and
design was highly satisfactory. The Bank worked closely with the Government in the



iv-
initial project, and was supportive and flexible in the subsequent re-design. The Bank's
performance in appraisal was highly satisfactory. The project has proved to be well-
designed, and the major stakeholders have remained strongly committed.   The
performance indicators were well selected although not all were well quantified. The
Bank also assisted in ensuring sound policy for the sector. The Bank's supervision
performance has been satisfactory.  Extensive discussions between CAP and Bank
missions were held at the time of the depressed alumina prices on how to improve CAP's
performance. The Bank was flexible in terms of extending the loan closing date to
complete the financing of major project components. There were no significant deviations
from Bank procurement and disbursement policy.
Borrower Performance.   The borrower's performance in project
preparation was highly satisfactory. The only area of questionable design was the alumina
sales arrangements, although it is a matter of speculation as to whether a better contract
could have been obtained. The Borrower's performance has been satisfactory in terms of
sectoral and financial policies, institutional development, physical and social objectives,
and overall implementation and operation. Compliance with loan covenants has been
highly satisfactory. CAP has been soundly managed, with administrative expenses well
controlled and a positive working relationship with its joint venture partner ALCOA.
While CAP has remained viable even during the very low price period, it is possible that
transfers to Government could have been improved by selling part of CAP's shareholding
to ALCOA or another investor: the new shareholder would have been released from the
obligations under CAP's sales contract and would have been able to sell alumina at a
better price. However, the management were reluctant to pursue this option because they
felt that it would be disadvantageous to sell part of the Government's share in a depressed
market.
Findings and Key Lessons Learned. (i) While private sector-driven
mineral development is generally most efficient, a situation can arise in which the interests
of investors conflict with the best interests of the economy.  Specifically, while the
ALCOA decision to close Clarendon was logical from a corporate standpoint, it would
have been sub-optimal and costly for the economy. In the same context, the time frames
in which governments and private investors have to react are different (long vs. medium-
short term), and the World Bank may prove to be a useful link between the two. (ii) A
joint-venture between Government and a private investor can be an effective vehicle for
industry or mining operation, in the case where the Government acts as a responsible,
commercial shareholder.  (iii) Financial objectives are very important for industrial
projects.  Even though initial objectives may prove to be unsustainable, financial
parameters would have been relevant tools to examine the project's performance and
examine measures to improve it. (iv) This project again demonstrates the importance of
being a low-cost producer in view of the price risks involved for projects producing
mineral commodities.
No future operation is required or anticipated.






PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Background and Objectives
Request for Assistance. In March 1985, the Government of Jamaica
requested the Bank's advice when two (namely the Clarendon and Alpart plants) of the
four alumina plants in Jamaica closed due to a severe recession in the world
aluminum/alumina industry. At the request of the Government, the Bank sent a mission to
examine the market position, competitiveness and prospects.for the Clarendon Plant in
which the Government had a small holding, (6%), with the balance of 94% being owned
by the ALCOA company. According to the shareholders agreement the Government
could keep the plant operating on its own account if it so desired. The Government was
seriously considering re-opening the Clarendon plant, which was a relatively low-cost
plant with the potential to operate viably. (The other plant, Alpart, was a higher cost plant
which did not warrant re-opening under the prevailing aluminum market conditions at that
time).
Bank Response.  The findings of the Bank mission endorsed the
Government's view that the Clarendon Plant was worth re-opening and, with the backing
of the Bank, the Government negotiated an agreement with ALCOA the majority
shareholder to keep the plant operating. The Government requested assistance from the
Bank to finance investments required to keep the plant operating on a sustainable basis
and, following project identification and preparation work, the project was initially
appraised in July 1987.  Subsequently, as world market conditions improved, ALCOA
approached the Government to re-negotiate the agreement and the proposed Bank project
was put on hold. The outcome of the discussions was to establish a new 50/50
unincorporated joint venture between the Government and ALCOA. The Government
then requested the Bank to consider helping to fund the government's share of the plant's
five year capital expenditure program. The Bank agreed to do this and the project was
subsequently re-appraised in March 1988.
Statement of Objectives. The objectives of the project were to: (i) sustain
production and increase efficiency and productivity at the Clarendon plant; (ii) to improve
environmental conditions related to the plant operations; (iii) to help establish the holding
company (Clarendon Alumina Production - CAP) as an effective Joint Venture partner;
and (iv) to support sound sectoral policy.
Evaluation of Objectives The objectives were clear, important for both the
country and the sector, and realistic. They were not modified during the project. The
design of the project required negotiation of complex legal agreements with ALCOA
regarding plant ownership and operating arrangements as well as new alumina sales
agreements with third parties.  These tasks were within the capabilities of the
implementing agencies. The project involved certain financial risks for the Government



- 2 -
but these were considered acceptable since the Clarendon plant was a very low cost
producer by world standards.
Lack of Financial Objectives. In considering the above, it must be noted
that the objectives did not specifically include financial viability or performance. With
hindsight, this appears an omission, since CAP experienced significant financial difficulties.
Financial objectives and performance data were approached indirectly because the project
was subject to a secrecy agreement whereby certain information, in particular cost
information, was held confidential to protect the competitive position of the plant and its
owners. While it is not immediately evident that financial objectives would have caused a
different outcome, they would have provided a more explicit context in which to examine
CAP's performance and devise measures to improve it.
B.    Achievement of Objectives
The project has substantially achieved the four objectives outlined above.
(i) Production has been sustained, unit production costs have been
reduced and efficiency increased. From FY92-94, cash operating costs per ton of
aluminum were 10% below budgeted projection and well within the lowest quartile of the
world cost curve. From FY90-94, CAP's share of production averaged 360,000 tpy about
10% below the target of 410,000 tpy. Physical progress has been largely satisfactory
although the timetable has been stretched out in view of the difficult world alumina market
conditions. All project components are substantially completed with the exception of a
red mud lake for waste disposal which has been postponed since existing waste disposal
capacity is not yet fully utilized and potentially cheaper alternative waste disposal methods
are presently being examined. Since this was one of the largest components to be financed
by the Bank, the delay in constructing the facility has significantly reduced the requirement
for Bank financing. Since there were no other large components eligible for Bank
financing, a significant portion US$5.8 million out of US$15 million (about 39%) of the
Bank loan was canceled.'
(ii) Emissions and pollution at the plant have been reduced through
various measures including the introduction of electrostatic precipitators and
environmental control equipment financed with the Bank loan proceeds so that in 1994 the
project was in compliance with Jamaica's SO2 emission, suspended particulates (with one
exception which is not serious and is being remedied) and ground water quality standards.
The project included the resettlement of about 200 families which was undertaken in a
highly responsible and satisfactory manner. The resettled community now has much better
living conditions than before resettlement took place although some problems are arising
due to a lack of employment and income-generating opportunities to improve the
situation of unemployed people in the community.
I     It should be noted that the final loan cancellation amount was higher than estimated in the
Project Completion Aide Memoire.



- 3 -
(iii) CAP has established itself as an effective joint venture partner and
has a sound, professional relationship with the plant operator and its joint venture partner.
(iv) The Government maintains a sound sectoral policy in terms of
encouraging private sector operation and ownership in the mining sector, with sound
regulatory and fiscal arrangements.
Financial Performance. CAP was very profitable in the 1980's. From
FY1986-90 CAP made an after-tax profit of US$41 million after paying bauxite levies and
royalties of US$62 million and income taxes of US$14 million. According to financial
projections in the Staff Appraisal Report, CAP was expected to make a before-tax profit
of US$48 million for the five years FY1991-94. However, CAP's actual performance was
a loss of US$33 million. The primary reason for the difference between expected profits
and actual losses for the period FY1991-94 is much lower product prices than expected.
The SAR projected an average price for the four year period of US$177 per ton of
alumina, whereas CAP's actual price was US$124 per ton.
Financial and Economic Rates of Return. At the time of appraisal, the
Economic Rate of Retum and the Financial Rate of Return for the Government were each
estimated at 54%. They have been re-estimated as [ 27% ] (Table 9, Annex A). While the
project has a much lower rate of return than expected at the time of appraisal, it still has
achieved a very healthy rate of return, confirming that the Government's decision to re-
open the plant was well warranted.
The lower rates of return are primarily due to lower than expected product
prices. At the time that the Government decided to re-open the plant, a ten year sales
contract was signed by the Government with Marc Rich Ltd. a metals trading company.
According to the contract, the sales price for CAP's alumina was set a fixed percentage of
the London Metal Exchange (LME) Aluminum price. As noted in the next section the
LME Aluminum price was well below the projection. In addition, the percentage agreed
was about 25% below typical contract terms - reflecting the fact that the contract was
signed at a time of very soft world alumina and aluminum markets and that it also
contained significant pre-financing concessions from the purchaser to the seller.
C.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Not Subject to Government Control. Project performance was
substantially affected by one factor not generally subject to Government control, namely:
World Aluminum price which has been much lower than estimated at the time of appraisal
as shown below.



-4 -
London Metal Exchange Aluminum Price
(US$ ton)
1990/91 a/   1991/2      1992/3       1993/4       1994/5
Appraisal           1,840       1,810        1,900        1,900       2,100
Actual              1,637       1,236        1,241        1,153        1,648
a/    Fiscal year April 1 - March 31
The LME aluminum price, (which as noted above is the basis for setting
the price of the alumina sold by CAP), reached record lows in real terms for a three year
period from 1992-1994 but has recovered to much higher levels since. The LME
aluminum price has averaged US$1,927 per ton for the first three months of 1995 .
Factors subject to Government control.  Project performance was
generally satisfactory in terms of factors subject to Government control such as
macroeconomic and sector policies, Government commitment, appointment of key staff,
provision of counterpart funds and administrative procedures.
Factors subject to Implementing Agency control. Project performance was
also generally satisfactory in terms of factors subject to implementing agency control such
as management effectiveness, staffing, cost changes, etc.  World Bank supervision
missions held extensive discussion with CAP management regarding strategic options to
CAP's position when CAP faced major financial difficulties in 1992/93. CAP's financial
situation was improved (a) by an increase in Government equity in CAP by US$12.1
million and a corresponding reduction in CAP's unpaid bauxite levy; and (b) by
amendments to the sales contract including advance payments to improve the cash flow to
CAP during periods of extremely low LME aluminum prices.
Cost changes. Capital expenditures during the project implementation
period were significantly reduced by the postponement of construction of a red mud
disposal lake. In the face of low product prices, the plant operator has successfully placed
emphasis on holding down and reducing cash operating costs.
Implementation Delays. In addition to postponing the red mud lake, some
other modest implementation delays have also occurred as a result of delaying capital
expenditures including a two year slippage in completing the electrostatic precipitator
which was the largest component being financed by the Bank.. The implementation delays
have slowed the build up of alumina production to a targeted 900,000 tpy capacity for the
plant. CAP's share of production is 50%.



-5 -
D.   Project Sustainability
Sustainability. The outlook for sustainability is very positive at both the
sectoral and project levels. The Government has established sound sectoral policies and
satisfactory institutional arrangements that are working to the benefit of the major
stakeholders in the sector - i.e., the Government, foreign investors, the workforce
employed by the industry and the local communities. The project has maintained its
position as one of the lowest-cost alumina operations in the world and is operated in a
fully professional and commercial manner with a high degree of competence by CAP's
joint venture partner ALCOA, which is one of the leading world aluminum and alumina
producers.
Financial and Economic Outlook. Financial and Economic projections
indicate that CAP's financial situation should steadily improve on account of (a) improved
world aluminum and alumina prices and (b) modifications to the alumina sales agreement
agreed in 1994. CAP should achieve a significant profit in FY96 (year ending March 31,
1996) and financial projections presented in the operating plan indicate that CAP should
be increasingly profitable each year. Based on conservative assumptions, CAP estimates
that retained earnings will increase from US$6 million at present to US$78 million by
1999.
Environmental and Social Impacts.   Environmental performance is
satisfactory and should be maintained since the plant has state of the art technology and
fully competent operational management.  The plant's workforce has good living
standards and ALCOA and CAP are examining ways to improve the economic
opportunities for the poorest groups in the resettled community that lack regular
employment and income earning opportunities.
E.   Bank Performance
Preparation. The Bank's performance in project preparation and design
was highly satisfactory. The Bank worked closely with the Government in the initial
assessment of the viability of re-opening the plant and provided strong support to the
government in its dealings with ALCOA. The Bank was also flexible in terms of delaying,
modifying and re-appraising the project after ALCOA announced its interest in developing
the 50/50 joint-venture with the Government.
Appraisal. The Bank's performance in appraisal was highly satisfactory.
The project has proved to be well-designed, it was not overly complex and there are
strong incentives to sustain project performance. The Government and the implementing
agency have remained strongly committed to the project. The risk section noted that
adverse aluminum price development was one of the principal risks facing the project but
that the project should be able to survive even in the most adverse market circumstances.
In fact, the project did face extremely adverse market circumstances and was able to
weather the storm. The size of the loan and selection of the lending instrument was



- 6 -
appropriate for the project. The project was designed with support from the European
Economic Community (EEC) who were to be co-financiers of the project. Subsequently
the EEC money was not provided due to eligibility difficulties. Additional financing was
provided by CAP's main customer and from the Government in the form of additional
equity fuinds. The implementation plan has been satisfactory. The performance indicators
were well selected but not all were well quantified. The Bank assisted in ensuring sound
policy for the sector and satisfactory project arrangements for the Clarendon plant. The
outcome was a project that has proved to be well designed and completed in terms of its
technical characteristics and its operational, managerial and legal arrangements.
Supervision. The Bank's supervision performance has been satisfactory.
The project has been supervised on a regular basis. Extensive discussions were held
around the time of the very low alumina prices and the Bank staff supervising the project
took the initiative in examining with CAP management the various strategic options for
improving CAP's financial performance and the transfers to Government. The Bank was
responsive to the Government's request to extend the loan closing date by one year so that
the Bank could complete the financing of the electrostatic precipitator and the Bank staff
also helped ensure that all eligible packages were financed by the Bank prior to loan
closing. There were no significant deviations from Bank procurement and disbursement
policy.
F.   Borrower Performance
Preparation. The borrower's performance is considered highly satisfactory
in terms of project preparation. The project was well prepared and soundly designed by
the borrower in terms of its technical, financial, economic, institutional, environmental and
sociological factors. The only area of questionable design were the alumina sales
arrangements. The sales contract was negotiated in a confidential manner by the then
Minister of Mines and, with hindsight, greater attempts to obtain better sales terms would
have been warranted. However, it is a matter of speculation as to whether a better
contract could have been obtained.
Project Implementation. The borrower's performance has been satisfactory
in terms of sector policies, financial policies, institutional development, physical objectives,
social objectives and overall implementation and operation. Sector policies have been
sound supporting private sector operations. Financial policies have been sound, with
initiatives to strengthen CAP's balance sheet in the face of financial difficulties.
Institutional development has been satisfactory. CAP has been soundly managed and with
administrative expenses well controlled and a positive working relationship with its joint
venture partner. Physical progress has been satisfactory given budget constraints and
social and environmental impacts have been managed responsibly.
Compliance with loan covenants. Compliance with loan covenants has
been highly satisfactory. Audits were undertaken with internationally qualified auditors,
although some delays occurred in receiving audits in a timely fashion. Faced by financial



- 7 -
difficulties, CAP management worked closely with Bank supervision missions to examine
different approaches to improving CAP's financial performance.
Financial Performance.   As noted previously, CAP's management
improved CAP's financial situation by delaying bauxite levy payments, arranging with the
shareholder ( the Government) to convert the unpaid levy into equity, and negotiating
certain concessions and sales advances . While CAP has remained viable, it is possible
that the overall transfers to Government could have been improved by selling part of
CAP's shareholding to ALCOA or another investor acceptable to ALCOA.. In the event
of such a sale, the new shareholder would have been released from the obligations under
CAP's sales contract and would have been able to sell alumina at a higher price than CAP.
However, CAP management were reluctant to investigate this option more fully because
they felt that it would be disadvantageous trying to sell part of the Government's share of
the joint-venture in a depressed market. Nevertheless, as part of their decision-making
process CAP's management could have usefully obtained the services of independent
advisers to more carefully investigate the possible benefits.
G.   Assessment of Outcome
The outcome of the project is considered satisfactory.  The project
achieved most of its objectives, and the ex-post economic and financial rates of return are
very attractive even if they re much lower than anticipated.
H.   Future Operations
No future operation is required or anticipated.
1.    Key Lessons Learned
The most significant lessons learned are as follows:
(i)    While private sector-driven mineral development is generally most efficient,
a situation can arise in which the strategic interests of investors conflict
with the best interests of the economy. Specifically, while the ALCOA
decision to close Clarendon was logical from a corporate standpoint,
it would have been sub-optimal and costly for the economy if
the Govermnent had not re-opened the plant. In the same context, the
time frames in which governments (long term) and private investors
(medium-short term) have to react are different, and the World Bank may
prove to be a useful link between the two.
(ii)   A joint-venture between Government and a strategic private investor
can be a highly effective vehicle for industry or mining operation, at least
in the case where the Government acts as a responsible, commercial
shareholder.



- 8 -
(iii)   Financial objectives are very important for industrial projects. Even
though initial projections and objectives may prove to be unsustainable,
financial parameters would have been relevant tools to examine the
project's performance and examine measures to improve it.
(iv)    This project again demonstrates the importance of being a low-cost
producer in view of the price risks involved for projects producing
mineral commodities.



- 9 -
JAMAICA
CLARENDON ALUMINA PROJECT
LOAN 3062-JM
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.  Achievement of Objectives        Substantial    Partial     Negligible   Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies
Sector policies
Financial objectives                             I
Institutional development           I
Physical objectives                              I
Poverty reduction                                                             /
Gender concerns                                                               /
Other social objectives             /
Environmental objectives            /
Public sector management            /
Private sector development          /
Other (specify)
B.  Project sustainability                Likely            Unlikely          Uncertain
Highly
satisfactory      Satisfactory        Deficient
C.  Bank performance
Identification                         I
Preparation assistance                 I
Appraisal                              I
Supervision                            I
Highly
D.  Borrower performance                satisfactory      Satisfactory        Deficient
Preparation                            I
Implementation                         I
Covenant compliance                    I
Operation (if applicable               /
Highly                                     Highly
E.  Assessment of outcome            satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
v"



- 10 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title         Purpose           Year of approval            Status
Preceding operations
None
Following operations
None
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle             Date planned        latest esimateu
Identification                                                          12/86
Preparation                                 _                          03/87
Appraisal                                                          07/87 and 03/88
Negotiations                                                          04/04/89
Letter of development policy (if applicable)
Board presentation                                                    05/06/89
Signing                                                               08/08/89
Effectiveness                                                         05/31/90
First tranche release (if applicable)       _
Mdterm review (if applicable)
Second (and third) tranche release
(if applicable)
Project completion                                06/30/93            12/31/94
Loan closing                                      12/31/93            12/31/94
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95
Appraisal Estimate              2.0      10.0    14.0    15.0
Actual                          0         3.4      3.4     3.4      3.4       9.2
Actual as % of estimate          0       34%      24%      23%     23%       61%
Date of final disbursement       -        -        -        -        -     05/09/95



- 11 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key implementation
indicators in
SAR/President's Report             Estimated                       Actual
1. JAMALCO Capital            FY89   US$28.9 million               US$25.2 million
Expenditure                FY90   US$40.5 million                US$25.4 million
FY91    US$20.8 million              US$15.6 million
2. Physical Program of Capital
Expenditure Program                  Not specified                  Ongoing
3. Program of Roof
Replacement Program                  Not specified                 Completed
4. Progress of Resettlement
Program                              Not specified                 Completed
II. Modified indicators (if
applicable)
None
III. Other indicators (if
applicable)
None



- 12 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
L Key operating indicators
in SAR/President's
Report                            Estimated                      Actual
1.    Cost of Sales/ton
(US$ per ton alumina)
FY90                           116                          171
FY91                           111                          124
FY92                           115                           93
FY93                           118                          106
FY94                           115                          108
2.   CAP's Share (50%) of
Alumina Production
(tons)
FY90                         425,000                      351,565
FY91                         362,000                      348,801
FY92                         400,000                      388,468
FY93                         425,000                      345,258
FY94                         450,000                      368,309
3.    Aluminum Sales
FY91                     US$60.3 million               US$43.2 million
FY92                     US$68.1 million               US$36.0 million
FY93                     US$74.7 million               US$36.7 million
FY94                     US$87.4 million               US$39.9 million
4. Key Financial Indicators          See Table 6A
IL Modified indicators (if
applicable)
None.
mL Modified indicators for
future operation (if
applicable)
None



- 13 -
Table 6A: Key Financial Indicators
Indicators as per SAR
FYs
Indicator                   1989                1990/92              1993/95
Debt/Capitalization                  16.1%                11.3%                 12.2%
Op. Profit/Net Fixed Assets         174.2%                44.7%                39.9%
Net Income/Net Fixed Assets          84.5%                17.1%                 17.2%
Op. Profit/Sales                     42.8%                28.4%                33.9%
Net Income/Sales                     20.8%                10.5%                 14.5%
Op. Profit/Debt Service             430.0%               301.5%               879.8%
Note: Operating profit excludes levy and royalties. High return in net assets in FY89 reflects
price peak. It is assumed that all after-tax income is retained.
Actual Performance
1990        1991         1992         1993        1994
|Indicator              %            %           %            %            %
Debt/Capitalization                 6          20           41           47          46
Op. Profit/Net Fixed Assets        32           5            8           (7)          (1)
Net Income/Net Fixed Assets         3         (10)         (21)         (11)          (2)
Op. Profit/Sales                   18           5            8           (9)          (1)
Net Income/Sales                    2          (9)         (22)         (14)          (3)
Op. Profit/Debt Service           100          79          174         (140)        (32)
Note: Operating profit excludes levy and royalties.
It is assumed that all after tax income is retained.



- 14 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                   at                Status         Impact of study
appraisal/redefined
Evaluation of dry stacking   Examine technical    Study is presently   When available,
technology for disposal of   and economic     being undertaken   result will be used to
red mud.                 feasibility of       by a JAMALCO    determine if waste
alternative waste   team in            disposal methods can
disposal method.    conjunction with   be improved.
an ALCOA
taskforce taking
into account
ALCOA's
worldwide
experience.



- 15 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)         Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Local      Foreign                  Local      Foreign
Item          Costs       Costs       Total       Costs       Costs       Total
Complete
Mudlake #3            2,150       2,150       4,300      12,662       1,407      14,069
Prepare Mudlake
#4                     800        1,300       2,100          0         803          803
Bowens
Resettlement          4,600       4,300       8,900       3,484       8,128      11,612
Mining
Development           3,315      11,882      15,197       4,538      10,588      15,126
Spare Parts
Plant                             6,900       6,900       3,598       8,395      11,993
Debottlenecking
and Upgrade                      29,000      29,000       7,539      17,590      25,129
Environmental
Control                           4,295       4,295       3,000       7,000      10,000
Other                 1,303       9,415      10,718       2,852       6,656       9,508
Total                12,168      69,242      81,410      37,673      60,567      98,240
Physical
Contingencies          946        3,785       4,731           -           -           -
Price
Contingencies          550        3,539       4,089           -           -           -
Total                13,664      76,566      90,230      37,673      60,567      98,240
Source: Appraisal - World Bank; actuals - CAP.



- 16 -
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)         Actual/Latest Estimate (USSM)
Local      Foreign                 Local      Foreign
Source         Costs       Costs       Total       Costs       Costs       Total
EBRD/IDA                  0      15,027      15,027           0       9,200       9,200
EEC                   4,600       4,300       8,900           0           0           0
ALCOA                     0      34,338      34,338         n.a         n.a      49,120
CAP                   9,064      22,901      31,965         n.a         n.a      39,920
Total Project Cost   13,664      76,566      90,230      37,673      60,567      98,240
Note: n.a = not available.



- 17 -
Table 9: Rate of Return
According to Staff Appraisal Report, the estimated financial rate of return for the project
to the Government, as the owner of the joint venture partner, was 54%; the economic rate of return (ERR)
was the same. The calculations took into account the capital expenditure required to re-open and operate
the plant, CAP's net after-tax profit, the income taxes paid and other transfers to Government by CAP and
ALCOA. The Staff Appraisal Report stated that no adjustments were needed to calculate the ERR for the
following main reasons: (i) there are no taxes on intermediate and investment goods imported by alumina
companies; (ii) fuel is imported directly by JAMALCO and not affected by domestic pricing; and (iii) the
U.S. dollar/Jamaican dollar exchange rate is assumed to be at equilibrium.
The economic and financial rates of return were re-estimated using actual data for the
period 1989-94 and updated estimates for 1995-2005. The re-estimated FRR and ERR are 26%. Details
are not provided due to the confidentiality agreement.



- 18 -
Table 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original     Revised
Agreement       Section    Covenant    Present        fulfillment   fulfillment    Description of        Comments
Type        Status        date          date          covenant
Loan            2.02 (b)        3            C                                   Government to             Fulfilled
maintain
a special account
in Central Bank
Loan            3.01 (a)        5            C                                   Govt, CAP, ALCOA and      Fulfilled
IBM to enter into an
Implementation
Agreement approved by
the Bank
Loan            3.01 (d)        3            C                                   Subsidiary loan           Fulfilled
Agreement between
Government and CAP
Loan            4.01 (d)        12           C                                   Amendment to the             In
Mining Legislation that  compliance
materially and adversely
affects the ability of
Government, CAP or
ALCOA to comply with
agreements
Loan            4.01 (e)        4            C                                   Availability of EEC loan  Fulfilled
or alternative funding
Loan            4.01 (1)        12           C                                   Substantial change in   In compliance
Government's bauxite
and alumina policy that
materially and adversely
affects the project's
viability
5.01 (a)        3           C                                   Subsidiary loan is         Fulfilled
effective between
Government and
CAP
5.01 (b)        5           C                                   Implementation agree-     Fulfilled
ment executed between
Government and CAP
5.01 (c)       5            C                                   Operating manual          Fulfilled
adopted by CAP
5.01 (d)       4            C                                   EEC loan approved or      Fulfilled
alternative financing in
place



- 19 -
5.01 (e)        6            C                                   CAP to furnish air         Fulfilled
quality test data
satisfactory
5.02 (a)        5            C                                   Project Agreement          Fulfilled
ratified by CAP
5.02 (b)        5            C                                   Subsidiary loan            Fulfilled
agreement ratified by
Government and CAP
5.02 (c)        5            C                                   Implementation             Fulfilled
agreement authorized by
Goverrunent, CAP,
ALCOA and JAM



- 20 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title              Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No known lack of compliance
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
State of              Planned                Revised                 Actual
project cycle      Weeks        US$       Weeks        US$       Weeks        US$
Through appraisal                                                      49
Appraisal-Board                                                         12
Board-effectiveness                                                     7
Supervision                                                            21
Completion                                                              6
TOTAL                                                                  95         n.a.
Note: n.a. not available.



- 21 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of            Number  Days  Specialized   Implemen-    Develop-
project   Month/      of      in    staff skills    tation       ment        Types of
cycle     year    persons  field  represented      status      impact      problems
Through      12/86      2       10    Econ. Eng                                  -
appraisal    03/87      2       10    Econ. Eng
06/87      2        4      Eng..
07/87      2       10
Appraisal
through
Board        03/88      2       10    Econ. Eng.       _                         _
approval
Board
approval
through      05/90      1        4       Eng.           1            1
effective-
ness
Super-       04/91      1        5       Eng.          2             1        Financial
vision       09/91      1        3       Proc.          -            -
03/92      1        5       Eng.          2             1        Financial
06/93      2       10    Econ. Eng.       3            2         Financial
12/94      2       6   Resettlement
Econ.          -
Comple-
tion      -01/95        1   -5  - Econ.                2             2



22 -                           ANNEX A
Page 1 of 18
Aide Memoire
JAMAICA - Clarendon Alumina Project (Loan 3062-JA)
Final Supervision and Project Completion Mission
January 20, 1995
This Aide Memoire presents the findings of a World Bank Final Supervision and
Completion Mission conducted by Mr. John Strongman, who visited Jamaica from January 17-20,
1995. The findings of the Mission are subject to subsequent confirmation by World Bank
Management in Washington, DC. The Mission thanks the representatives of Clarendon Alumina
Production Ltd. (CAP), in particular CAP's Financial Manager, Mr. Winston Hayden, Jamaica
Bauxite Institute (JBI), the Planning Institute of Jamaica (PIOJ) and JAMALCO for excellent
cooperation and constructive discussions during the Mission. A list of senior persons met is
attached as Annex 1.
PROJECT STATUS
The project was approved by the World Bank Board on April 27, 1989 for a Loan
amount of US$15 million equivalent. The original closing date was December 31, 1993. The
Loan closing date was extended to December 31, 1994 to facilitate completion of the electrostatic
precipitators which will improve the environmental performance at the JAMALCO  plant.
Following a request from the borrower on April 7, 1994, US$3.75 million of the Loan was
cancelled. Thus, the present Loan amount is US$1 1.25 million of which S$8.2 million has been
disbursed as of January 20, 1995. Further disbursement applications are expected before the end
of April 1995.
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AND SUPERVISION
The world aluminum industry has faced an extremely difficult situation in the past
few years with aluminum prices reaching the lowest levels ever in real terms. The London Metal
Exchange (LME) Aluminum price averaged US$1,139 per ton in 1993 compared with US$1,254
per ton in 1992. In FY94 (ending March 31, 1994), CAP had a trading loss of US$8.883 million
and a net loss after exceptional items, bauxite levy and taxes of US$8.536 million. In order to
strengthen its financial position, CAP obtained commitment for a US$16.5 Loan from the
Caribbean Development Bank and the Government contributed an additional US$12. 100 million
equity to CAP and CAP's unpaid bauxite levy.was reduced accordingly. For FY95 (ending
March 31, 1995) CAP is expected to make a profit as a result of higher sales prices, improved
plant performance and higher sales volumes. CAP's improved performance reflects higher world
aluminum prices, lower real production costs and improved sales contract terms. In 1994 LME



-23 -                           ANNEX A
Page 2 of 18
aluminum prices increased to average US$1,477 per ton and as of January 17, 1995 had increased
to US$2,050 per ton. CAP's agent, BATCO, had entered into a ten-year Alumina Supply
Agreement with Marc Rich Limited in 1986.  The agreement was amended in 1994 and
guarantees alumina prices to December 3 1, 1996 and provides CAP with considerably higher
income than previously. CAP should achieve a significant profit in FY96 (ending March 31,
1996).
During the past year, considerable progress has been made regarding completion
of the three electrostatic precipitators. The new smokestack was completed and Unit #2 was
brought on-line in December 1993 and the other two Units (#1 and #3) were brought on-line in
1994. The three Units are operating in a satisfactory manner and have been given preliminary
certification. However, a problem has been identified regarding deterioration in the dampers of all
of the Units due to inadequate design specification. The contractor has been notified but the plant
operation JAMALCO reports that the contractor is presently unwilling to rectify the problem
under the terms of the construction contract and instead requires an additional payment (of
US$0.3 million) in order to make the necessary repairs. The repairs are required as a matter of
urgency and the plant operator is presently working to try and resolve the matter with the
contractor although the timeframe and mechanism for the resolution of the matter remain
uncertain.
The status of the resettlement of the Bowens Community was reviewed by World
Bank specialists in December 1994. The Mission informed JAMALCO and CAP that the
preliminary findings of the specialists were that the resettlement has been undertaken in a
responsible and satisfactory manner and that after more than two years, the community is in good
shape and has overall better living standards than before resettlement took place. The specialists
noted that some of the families in the community face problems associated with lack of
employment opportunities and JAMALCO could consider using some local specialists to assist
the community to develop an income recovery plan aimed at enabling the community to achieve
greater independence from the plant. A follow-up letter will shortly be sent from the World Bank
in Washington, DC, regarding the findings of the specialists and Ms. Patricia Shako of the World
Bank Kingston Office can help provide any follow-up assistance as appropriate.
Since late 1994, environmental performance at the Project is being monitored by
the JBI Environmental Unit. The Project is meeting Jamaica's interim compliance standards
regarding S02 emissions (readings of averaging 0.008-0.012 ppm compared with a standard of
0.3 ppm), total suspended particulates except for one exceedence at the bauxite loading area in
1994 (standard of 60 ug/m3 maximum annual geometric mean); and ground water quality (meeting
compliance standards for drinking water quality). With the exception of some exceedences at the
bauxite loading area, the Project is also in compliance with World Health Organization dust-fall
standards (performance of 0.5-4 gIm2/mth compared with a standard of 5 g/m2/mth) which are
being used until Jamaica develops its own intewtm standards. None of the exceedences are
considered serious since there are no neighboring communities nearby. ALCOA also conducted
its own intemal environmental audits of the Clarendon Plant in 1992 and 1994 and an internal
environmental improvement program is being implemented in order to bring the plant in line with
ALCOA's own internal standards which in some cases go beyond both local standards and USA



-24 -                             ANNEX A
Page 3 of 18
EPA standards. The plant has established procedures for dealing with hazardous wastes for
exarnple asbestos and is presently seeking approval from the Jamaica Natural Resources
Conservation Authority regarding procedures for disposal of polychlorinated biphenyls.
PROJECT COMPLETION AND PREPARATION OF THE IMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT
In line with the requirements of the World Bank operational guidelines for
preparing Implementation Completion Reports, this Aide Memoire is required to:
(i)   record the views of the Bank, borrower and implementing agencies on project
implementation and operation; (although the EEC was originally included in the
Project documents as an expected co-financier, the EEC financing was not
subsequently realized, thus there is no co-financier of the Project); and
(ii)   confirm that the mission has provided support and advice to the borrower for
preparing its own contribution to the ICR and to include a copy of the
Operational Plan as an attachment.
The views of the various parties are recorded in the context of the Project
Objectives and Components which are summarized below from the Loan Agreement.
The Project Objectives were:
(a)   to sustain production and increase efficiency and productivity of the
operation of the Joint Venture;
(b)   to improve the environmental conditions related to the plant's operations;
(c)   to help establish CAP as an effective Joint Venture partner; and
(d)   to support sound sectoral policy.
The Project Components included:
(a)   alumina plant improvements including the acquisition and utilization of
cost reduction equipment, environmental control equipment and process
control instrumentation;
(b)   development of mining infrastructure to gain access to new mining areas
as well as acquisition and utilizatiofof equipment for loading and
transporting bauxite;
(c)   acquisition and utilization of spare parts for maintenance;



- 25 -                        ANNEX A
Page 4 of }.8
(d)   construction of a conventional wet-type mud lake including earth-moving,
installation of a new pump station and pipes to recover caustic soda
solutions;
(e)   evaluation of the economic and technical feasibility of using dry-stacking
technology for the disposal of red mud; and
(f)   resettlement of about 200 families residing in the community of Bowens
including replacement of houses, churches, a school and a community
centre, installation of infrastructure including roads, supply of water,
sewerage and power services, as well as replacement of agricultural land,
fruit-bearing trees and cemeteries.
World Bank View of Project implementation and Operation
In the view of the Mission, the Project has substantiallv achieved its objectives.
Production has been sustained, unit production costs have been reduced and efficiency increased.
Emissions and pollution have been reduced through various measures including the introduction
of the electrostatic precipitators and environmental control equipment. CAP has established itself
as an effective Joint Venture partner and the Government maintains a sound sectoral policy. The
Project components have been substantially completed with some modest slippage compared with
the original timetable (for example the electrostatic precipitators).  The alumina plant
improvements have been made, access has been developed to new mnining areas, new bauxdte
loading and transportation equipment has been introduced, spare parts were acquired and used for
maintenance, and the resettlement of 200 families has been satisfactorily achieved and the
settlement of New Bowens established. There is one part of the Project which is not yet
complete, which is the evaluation of the dry-stacking technology for disposal of red mud waste.
The time by which a decision is needed has been put back to 1997/8 because modifications are
increasing the capacitv of the existing disposal facilities and because production has been lower
than previously projected. The situation now is that JAMALCO have established an in-house
team to undertake the evaluation. The JAMALCO team is working in conjunction with an
ALCOA corporate task force that is addressing the question from an overall corporate standpoint.
The JAMALCO team will benefit from the experience at other ALCOA plants presently using dry
stacking methods including Point Comfort in the USA and plants in Australia.
While physical progress has been satisfactory, the benefits from the Project will be
much lower than expected at the time of appraisal due to lower world aluminum and alumina
prices than projected. For example, financial and econormic projections in the SAR indicated a net
foreign exchange benefit to Jamaica in FY94 of US$73 million based on an LME aluminum price
of US$2,100 per ton for the period. The actual price was about US$1,160 per ton and actual
benefits about US$30 million consisting of wages and salaries and payments of income tax, levy
and royalty by ALCOA and CAP. CAP faced major financial difficulties in 1992/3 at which time
there were extensive discussions between CAP and World Bank supervision mission regarding
CAP's strategic options, and the Bank subsequently agreed to extend the completion date of the
Project so that Bank financing would be available to cover the electrostatic precipitators. This



ANNEX A
-26 -                           Page 5 of 18
assisted CAP's cash flow in 1994. CAP has delayed levy payments, converted levy obligations
into additional equity and taken on additional loans and sales advances in order to remain viable in
recent years. For the future, financial projections presented in the Operational Plan for 1995-1999
indicate that CAP should be increasingly profitable each year and that the Project should be
sustainable.
CAP's Views on Project Implementation and Operation
CAP is of the view that the Project was an overall success. Resettlement was
effected with general success. There are on-going citizens issues, but these are in general outside
of the terms of reference of the Project. The ESP Units have comfortably surpassed the minimnum
performance standards required by the plant and the Units are regarded as a showpiece of the
operation. CAP has survived the difficult period following the Project's commencement by
working with its Joint Venture partner to identify major problem areas, and to seize opportunities
for avoiding performance variations. Plant performance improved considerably in 1994, and the
final product was substantially compliant with target specifications. Due to improved world
aluminum prices as well as strategic price fixing initiatives on CAP's part, the medium- to long-
term viability of the operation seems assured. Even while using conservative assumptions, CAP is
convinced that its retained earnings will improve from approximately US$6 million at present to
some US$78 million by 1999.
Borrowers Views on Project Implementation and Operation
The Planning Institute of Jamaica is satisfied with the overall implementation of the
Project. Project objectives have largely been achieved and components significantly completed.
The extension of the Closing Date of the Project does not reflect a weakness on the part of the
Project's management, but cognizance had to be taken of the wider external conditions that
impacted upon CAP's resources and its expansion plan. The Institute notes the responsible
manner in which the relocation of the Bowens Community was undertaken and hopes that the
findings of the resettlement specialists will be adequately addressed.
The Institute notes the successful implementation of the electrostatic precipitators
and is confident that the outstanding issue of damper corrosion in the Units will be resolved. The
Institute requests that environmental problems within the sphere of influence of the plant's
operational zone be given priority treatment whenever they occur. With regards to resource
flows, the Institute notes the cancellation of US$3.75 million which represents 25% of the
original Loan amount, following a request from the Borrower. This was unavoidable in light of
modifications to the expansion plan, namely, a rescheduling of the timing of the mud lakes to be
constructed. The GoJ is committed to the development of CAP and is of the position that
prospects for the operational phase and Project sustainability are positive.
OPERATIONAL PLAN AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
CAP have prepared a Summary Operational Plan for 1995-1999 and Performance
Indicators which is attached as Annex 2.



- 27 -                           ANNEX A
Page 6 of 18
PREPARATION OF BORROWERS CONTREBUTION TO ICR
CAP has confirmed that it will prepare a draft of the Borrowers Evaluation Report
to be included in the ICR and submit it to PIOJ for finalization and submission to the World Bank.
CAP and PIOJ have indicated that the document should be available by the end of March. The
Mission have provided advice as requested regarding the document which should provide the
Borrower's evaluation of:
-     the Project's execution and initial operation including an assessment of the Project
objectives, design, implementation and operation experience;
-     the Project's costs and benefits, and the extent to which the purposes of the Loan
were achieved;
-     the Borrower's own performance during the evolution and implementation of the
Project including the Borrower's obligations under the Loan Agreement; special
emphasis should be given to lessons learned that may be relevant in the future; and
-     the performance of the Bank during the evolution and implementation of the
Project including the Bank's obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
effectiveness of the relationship between the Borrower and the Bank; special
emphasis should be given to lessons learned that may be relevant in the future.
The Borrower's Evaluation Report will be attached unedited to the ICR unless it is
over ten pages long, in which case a summary should be prepared which will instead be included
in the ICR. To assist in the preparation of the document, CAP have previously been provided
with a copy of World Bank Operational Policies OP 13.55 and Bank Procedures BP 13.55, and
the Mission also provided CAP with a copy of Good Practices GP 13.55. PIOJ have also been
provided with OP 13.55, BP 13.55 and GP 13.55. The content of the Borrowers Report is
outlined in Good Practices GP 13.55 page 2, para. 5 (a) and in Operational Policies OP
13.55 page 1, para. 3.
CAP also confirmed that they would provide information requested by the Mission
to prepare certain cost, financial and implementation progress tables required in the ICR. Such
information should be available by the end of January. In addition, the JBI Environmental Unit
provided the Mission with environmental data regarding compliance standards and project
performance for JAMALCO's operations.
A draft of the Bank's ICR will be provided to CAP and PIOJ by mid-April for
comment which should be provided if possible btfrthe end of May, so that the document can be
finalized and issued by the end of June.



-28-                        ANNEX A
Page 7 of 18
Clarendon Alumina Project - Project Completion Mission Aide Memoire
Signed
Dr Carlton E. Davis    Mr Winston An  rson                John Strongman
Chairman               Director                           World Bank Mlission
CAP                    Technical Cooperation Division
PIOJ
January 20, 1995



- 29 -                         ANNEX A
Page 8 of 18
LIST OF SENIOR PERSONS MET
Clarendon Alumina Production Ltd.
Dr. Carlton E. Davis          Chairman
Mr. Winston Hayden            Financial Manager
Planning Institute of Jamaica
Mr. Winston Anderson          Director, Technical Cooperation Division
Jamaica Bauxite Institute
Ms. Claudette Hall             Environmental Officer
JAMALCO
Mr. Don Fint                  Financial Vice President



-30-                  ANNEX A
Page 9 of 18
CLARENDON ALUMINA PRODUCTION LIMITED
SUMMARY OPERATING PLAN
1995 - 1999
January 20, 1995



-31 -                        ANNEX A
Page 10 of 18
CLARENDON ALUMINA RODUOCTION LIMrLED
SUMMARY OFERATTNG PLAN
ThSe OJperational Flan i-s based on operational plan  that are prepared as a matter
of regular practice both by JAMALCCO the Project Manager and by CAR Such plans
cannot be made public because they are subject to secrecy ageenents with CAP's
Joint venture xartner ALCOA. 7he Opezational Flan has therefore been prepared
on a surmnzy basis in or.der to comply wi thi confidentiality agreents. Detailed
sup.rnrtizg inforrmtion which cannot be inacluded in the Aide-Men,ire  s  been
provided separately to the mission.
AssumGtio
In preparing the Operating Plan, the following assumptions were used:
Sales Fri=e
It is assumed that the following percentages of the projected average L.M.E.
prices would be earned:
9g5      1996     1997     1998
L.M.E. Price Projected              1,700    1,600    1,600    1,600    1,600
Projected Earnings (Alumina
Prices) Percentage of L.M.E.         8.59    12.18    11.81    12.19    12.69
Capital Programme-
The following annual levels are assuned for capital expenditures:
A26 57                   1998 
$18.OM       $42.9M      $45.8M      $40.2M      $26.5M
These are seen as 'outside' long range projections.  A list of projects is
provided in a subsequent section of this plan.
A major project that will impact on production is the Precipitation ExPansion
Programme.  When it is completed in mid 1998, the plant's capacity will be
increased to 1 million tonnes.
The benefits to be derived from other major projects are set out in the listing
of Capital Projects Exceeding $1 Mill4on in Cast.



3-ANNEX A
- 32 -                    Page 11 of 18
CLARENDON ALUMINA PRODUCTION LTD.
PROJECTED FIVE-YEAR BALANCE SHEET
(IN $ 000)
1995      1996       1997      1998      1999
Current Assets
______________
Cash                              15,400    23,896    20,812    10,555    11,429
Accounts Receivable              10,236    10,833    11,893    13,930    16,018
Inventories                      15,439    16,983    18,002    18,020    18,038
Total Current Assets           41,075    51,712    50,707    42,504    45,485
Less: Current Liabilities
Current portion:
long-term debt                  7,194      7,004     7,622      7,621     7,621
Accounts Payable                  8,355      8,856      9,388     9,951    10,548
Levy and Royalty Payable           1,149     1,144      1,139     1,149      1,153
.ncome taxes payable              8,246      8,246    13,777    12,277    12,277
Total Current Liabilities      24,944    25,251    31,926    30,998    31,599
'3et Current Assets               16,131    26,462    18,781    11,507    13,887
Investment                          140        140        140       140       140
Fixed Assets
____________
Plant in Service                104,894   126,363   149,262   169,378   182,653
Less: Accumulated Depre.         47,175    52,267    58,401    65,496    72,874
Set Plant in Service             57,719    74,096    90,861   103,882   109,779
TOTAL ASSETS                     73,990   100,698   109,782   115,528   123,806
FINANCED BY
Long-term Debt                   29,266    33,057    29,425    21,799    14,173
Equity
Paid in Capital                  31,507    31,507    31,507    31,507    31,507
Retained Earnings & Reserves    13,217    36,134    48,850    62,222    78,126
TOTAL DEBT AND EQUITY            73,990   100,698   109,782   115,528   123,806
)ebt as a % of total
capitalization                      49        40         34        25         18
Current Ratio                        1.6       2.0        1.6       1.4        1.4
Quick Ratio                          1.2       1.6        1.2       0.9        0.9



33                       ANNEX A
Page 12 of 18
CLARENDON ALUMINbA PRODUCTION LTD.
FIVE-YEAR CASH FLOW PROJECTION
(IN USSO000)
1995       1996       1997       1998      1999
INFLOWS:
From Sales                         59,951    80,025    77,585    86,470    92,619
World Bank Loan                     3,012           0          0         0          0
CDB Loan                            1,705     10,800      3,995          0          0
From Net Investments                1,500      2,600      3,240      2,300      2,200
66,158    93,425    84,820    88,770    94,819
OUTFLOWS:
?roduction Costs                   41,432     46,039    47,846    50,494    52,565
Capital Projects                    9,000    21,469    22,899    20,116    13,275
Loan Repayments                     5-474     10,139    10,263    10,889    10,724
'oyalty                              504         493        493       522        544
Levy                                6,938      6,'65      5,754      6,652      6,844
Income Tax                                      -          -         9,679     9,291
Other                                 600        624        649        675        701
63,^^48    84,929    87,904    99,028    93,944
Surplus                             2,520      8,496     (3,084)  (10,258)        875
Opening Balance                    12,880     15,400    23,896    20,812    10,555
Closing Balance                    15,400     23,896    20,812    10,555    11,429
NOTE: These projections are based on calendar year.



-                    - 34                       ANNEX A
Page 13 of 18
CLARENDON ALUMINA PRODUCTION LTD.
PROJECTED FIVE-YEAR OPERATING STATEMENT
(IN $O000)
1995       1996       1997       1998      1999
Income from sale of alumina       59,951    80,025    77,585    86,470    92,619
Cash Cost of Production            40,619    44,384    46,392    48,911    50,917
Gross Operating Margin             19,332    35,641    31,193    37,559    41,702
EXPENSES:
Ro"alty                               493        493        493        532        548
Bank Charges & Interest             1,608      2,945      3,259      3,267      3,103
Commissions                           300        400        388        432        463
Depreciation                        4,673      5,092      6,135      7,095      7,378
Ither Charges                         600        624        649        675        701
7,674      9,554    10,924    12,001    12,193
Operating Profit                   11,658    26,087    20,269    25,558    29,509
Other Income                        1,725      2,990      3,726      2,645      2,530
Net Profit before Tax              13,383    29,077    23,995    28,203    32,039
Taxation - Income Tax                -          -        (5,531)   (8,179)   (9,291
Levy                   (6,160)    (6,160)    (5,749)   (6,652)   (6,844
Net Profit after Tax                7,223    22,917      12,715    13,372    15,904
NOTE: These projections are based on calendar year.



- 35 -                        ANNEX A
Page 14 of 18
Pert orinoe Inicators
The performance of the project will be monitored according to the following six
categories of performance indicators:
a.    Financial
1995      1996        1997      19938     Liui
Cash Cost of Alumina            -----------------  CONFIDENTIAL  -------
Caustic Soda/Tonne al.         $19.80    $26.90      $31.80    $32.10    $32.30
Fuel Cost/Tonne al.            $21.52    $21.52      $22.38    $22.38    $23.29
Mininmm Average Monthly
Cash Balance                   $10 M     $15 M       $13 M     $9 M       $9 M
Current Ratio                    1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0       1.0
Debt/Equity Ratio (Maximum)    60:40      60:40       60:40     60:40      60:40
Retained Earnings              $13.2M    $36.1M      $48:8M    $62.2M    $78.1M
b.     fiienc
195-       199         1997     im3        122
Bauxite/Alumina DMT/fF          2.50        2.50       2.50      2.50       2.50
Caustic Soda/Alumina af/TbMT)   0. 10       0. 10      0. 10     0. 10      0.10
Fuel Oil Gj/HI'                12.20       12.20      12.20     12.20      12.20
Permanent Employees            1,060       1,030      1,030     1,045      1,045
c.    Safet
For each year, a maximm of two disabling accidents, which is equivalent to 0.2
per million manhours.
d.    Pnoductiog
Production f igures reveal competitive iuformation- and are therefore conf idential.



- 36-                          ANNEX A
Page 15 of 18
e.    Erv.onrrient
Standards used:
1.    Dustfall    -     sg/b/nmth. (W.H.O. standard)
2.    TSP         -     60 ug/Ru  - meximum annual geometric mean (National
Interim Air Quality Standard)
3.    SO,         -     .03 ppm - maxiam annual geometric mean (National Interim
Air Quality Standard).
f.    Qality
Percentage +325 mesh fraction in SGA:  91.5
Percentage -20 micron in SGA: 2.0



-37 -                      ANNEX A
Page 16 of 18
CAPITAL PROJBDTh EXESEDING $1 MILLION IN COST
Hine
Ms                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~$
Develop Denbigh CrawL/Phase II                          1,693,000
Develop Sheckles Sub-division                             965,000
Develop Whitney Sub-division                            1,450,000
-     Resettlement for land acquired in mines.
Construct Haulroad to E-2                               3,556,000
Construct Haulroad to D-20                              3,807,000
-     Mining roads to bauxite deposit.
Mining railhead and Plant Manchester                   39,500,000
-     Relocation of railhead offices etc. after
present reserves are depleted
Replace 3 D9-H Dbzers                                    1,500,000
Replace 7 Haultrucks                                    3,750,000
Useful life exhausted.
-     Uneconomical to keep in operation.  Benefit
will be known on preparation of RFA.
Residue Disposal Lake #4                               28,750,000
-     Future disposal area construction.  The
project will become necessary to sustain
operation.
-     Increase production will bring forward the
need.
Upgrade Sand Classifier Throughput                       1,000,000
-     Sand Removal and classifi6ation unit.
Sand used in filters will be layered'
by size. RFA will quantify benefits.



-38 -                        ANNEX A
Page 17 of 18
Agglomerate ESP Dust in Precipitators                   2,250,000
Recycle ESP dust to precipitators to
increase particle size.
This is a 'quality' requirement that
will reduce variation from the +325 mesh
specification.
Upgrade Turbine Generators                             15,000,000
-     Rotors of existing generators have
deteriorated to the point where
rebuilding is necessary. This presents
the opportunity to upgrade the generating
capacity of the existing units. This will
ensure enough power at 1M MT per year
alumina production, minimize the reliance
on JFS during overhaul, and produce power
for the national grid. The minimum benefit
projected at $5.6 million per annum.
Raise Dykes of $3 Residue Lake                          7,700,000
-     Extend life of Lake #3 by 2 - 3 years to
nnximize mnd-storage capacity/acre. The
benefit is approximtely $1 million per
(cost of capacity) plus a 2 - 3 year delay
in incurring the $29 million cost of
constructing lake $4.
Convert Washer/Thickener Rake Drives                     1,100,000
-     Replacement of drives to reduce/minimize
failures which result from higher
viscosities as the mud thickens. The
cost/benefit results will emerge with
the RFA.
Major Boiler Refurbishment/Upgrade                     13,500,000
-     Refurbish the three field erected boilers
to reduce tube failures and upgrade from
250,000 lb/hr each to 340,000 lb/hr each.
Steam supplied at 2400 MTPD alumina is
marginal.
Additional capacity required for IM MTFY.
(2740 MT/day average 2950 '1PD maximum)
Plant Upgrade Miscellaneous                             4,745,000
-     Debottlenecking projects - include pumps
and piping in the plant.



-39-                       ANNEX A
Page 18 of 18
The RFA will 'pin point' the specific
areas of the process needing attention
and will quantify benefits from the
resulting reduction in flow cuts.
Increase Capacity JPS Tie                              1,200,000
Increase power transferred to and from JPS.
It will enable the plant to receive more
power from the JPS, and will facilitate
the benefits from the turbine upgrade.
Precipitation Upgrade                                 13,750,000
An additional row of precipitators,
classifiers and associated equipment.
This is required for 1! MTPY alumina.
This is the last major project in the
upgrade to 1 million tonnes. Specific
benefits await publication of the RFA.



-40 -                                ANNEX B
Page 1lof 3
CLARPENDON ALUMINA PRODUCTION LIITED
JAMAICA - CLARDON ALUINA PROJECT (LOAN #3062JA)
BORROWERS CONTRBUTION TO DII2MENTATION COMPLETION 1REPORT
The project objectives were to:
i.   To facilitate and sustain the desired level of plant production while improving the
efficiency of the joint ventre operation;
fi.   To improve the environmental conditions as affected by the plants opeation;
iii.   To assist with the establishment of CAP as an effeciive joint venture; and
iv.   To support and complement a sound sectoraL bauxte/aiumina policy.
The project components designed to achieve the objectves included:
i-   The acquisition of equipment to enhance plant performance including process coLrol
environmental control and cost effective operational equiipmen;
ii.   Development and implementation of minin infastructure to faciitate exploitation of new
miining areas;
iiL    Acquisition of spare parts;
iv.   Constuction of mud lake facilities;
v-  Technical evaluation of the dry-stacking approach to red mud disposal; and
vi.   Resettlement of 200 families from the community of Bowens, installing imrved
inftustuctm-e and social facilities
The four project objectives were distinctly identifiable. Measurable performance results adbieved
ove the life of the project point to the overall attainment of these objectves.
Plant pedomance, though below the established producdon targets, has been good and the
operafion has remained competitive when compared to other operations world wide. The non-
attainment of volume production targets has been largely as a result of slower than planned plant
eapnsion.



- 41 -                             ANNEX B
Page 2 of 3
This has been due largely to considerations arising from wider external conditions affecting the
world aluminium industy and consequently affecting the strategic posture of the patners. CAP
has worked with its partner to institute measures to reduce performance variations.  This
accounts substantialy for the production improvement which was acbieved in 1994 and which
contmned into 1995.
The major financial targets established were not achieved. This was largely due to the much
lower than expected prices achieved on the London Metal Exchange (the basic component
influencing prices to CAP) between 1990 and 1994. Inspite of this factor which was outside the
company's control CAP was able, through strategic price fixng and cash flow planning
initiatives, to meet its finacial obligations over the difficult period and the company's position
as a joint venture parter has been effectively preservedL Strategic price fixing initiatives and
improved world aluminium prices have, in recent months, combined to asswe the fiture medium
to long-term strength of the company. In this context it is projected that retained eamings wil
increase to US$78 million by 1999.
The country's sectoral policy affecting the bauxite alumina industy has been productive, fostering
corporatc responsibility among the companies, reflected in a sound environmental policy and
community relations, while allowing the enities the operating freedom to optimise the
technological, natural, financial and human resources at their disposal.
The environmental conditions relating to the plant's operaions have been substantially improved-
JAMALCO's environmental management team has been strengthened, thereby facilitating
improved perfoimance monitoring- The plant's own standards for monitoring evironment
perfonnance often surpass those established for North America, and the Electostatic Precipitator
(ESP) units have become a showpiece of the operatioiL At the same time, a model community
was established to accommodate 200 families affected by the mining operations.
CAP's role as an effective, fully compliant joint venture parmer is not in doubt- Over the years,
complex and adequate agreements have been. crafted with respect to fufiiTment of the joint
venture and plant management roles. In its role as partner, the company has, where necessary,
used its position to ensure that the plant's focus has been appropriately directed at the targets
estabLished for production, quality, efficiency, corporate responsibility and environmeal
management
The borrower's performance in preparing, designing and monitoring the project has been
satisfctory.   The established debt servicing and reporting requirements have been met
Implementation of certain plant de-bottlenec:king project components has been delayed, in keeping
with the realities of the marketplace and the timeframe for the new mud lake defered. In the
case of the latter, a cost-effective method has been found to extend the life of the exiting, lake
and the time gained is being used to explore altemnative methods of storage.



- 42 -                              ANNEX B
Page 3 of 3
CanceIlation of approximately $5.8 million of the oniginal loan amount was a disappointng
development  This wa in part due to modifications to the plant's expansion plans ($3;73
million) and nou-qualification of certain sub-contracts affecting expenditure on the ESP units
during 1994. The former contributing factor was, as has been noted clsewhere, due to wider
world economic conditions beyond the borrower's control.
The major lesson leamed from the project demonstrates tha Govenmment and the Private Sector
can combine stengths, in the frmnework of a sound sectoral policy, to operate a successful joint
ventare. This particular venture has been able tD respond to both the demds ofthe international
environment and to local expectations in the areas of environmental mainagrement and social
development
The borrower found the Bank's performance to be satisfactory during all phases of the projecL
Bank pesonnel worked closely with the borrower during the evoluionary phases. Dring
implementation, the Bank cooperated with the borrower, sharing informaion which facilitated the
ongoing evaluation of the project's long-term viability, thereby alowing for the cross-checking
of conclusions discerned from CAP's ntrnal price, cost and cash flow projection models. CAP's
request to extend the loan period was favourably considered and Bank personnel provided
ongoing guidance regarding the reportng requirements.  Disburement requesms were
expeditiously processed, and the borrower found the lender to be generally helpfdl and
cooperative.
The general lesson learned from the borrower's perspective is considered to be potenially
ius=ctive and relevant to the lender.






IMAGING
Report No:         14718
Type: I(R."



