Doiunmnt or
The World Bank
FMa OFFCIAL USE ONLY
CoA/ Zo 6z- '.--
bspwt No. 7195-JM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
JAMAICA
CLARENDON ALUMIA PROW CTION PROJECT
APRIL 27, 1989
Trade, Finance and Industry Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This docunent has a restricted distbution and may be ued by repints only in the performane of
thek official dutes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriadon.



US$1.00 - J$5.50
JS1.00 - V$W.Isis
ulm,  AID 1usui
1 mtric ton (t) -  2,204 pounds (lbs)
1 kilieter (ka) -  0.62137 mile Imi)
1 mile (mi) - 1.609 kilomters (kms)
Government of Jamicas April 1 - March 31
Clarendon Alumina Cmpany: April 1 - March 31-
ACROM   AID   I     IOS
Alpart     -     Aluminum Partners of Jamica, Inc.
CAP        -     Clarendon Alumina Production Company
EEC        -     European Economic Community
ERR        -     Economic Rate of Return
FOB        -     Free-on-Board
FRR        -     Financial Rate of Return
GOJ        -     Government of Jamaics
ICB        -     International Competitive Bidding
Jamalcan   -     Jamaica Alcan Alumina Production Co.
Jamelco    -     Jamaica Alcoa Alumina Production Co.
JBM        -     Jamaica Bauxite Mining Co.
RJBC       -     Kaiser of Jamaica
LIB        -     Limited International Bidding
MME        -     Ministry of Mining, Energy, and Tourism
MrD        -    Ministry of Finance and Planning
SYSMIN     -    Mineral Systems of the EEC
tpa        -    Metric Tons per Annum



FOR OCIAKL ~U3 0t41V
c~ou ALMUGA PMOVITOUO PIOJUCT
STAll APRAISL RumOt
Tabl of Contentc
LOAN AND PROJECT SIOIARY  .............  *...... 
S.  THE BAUXITEALUIINA SECTOR ...............................   1
BDckground                       ...................     1
Governnent Policy in the Sector                          5
Government Institutions in the Sector   .    .
2. CLARENDON ALUMINA PRODUCTION, LIMITED AND THE JOINT
VElNTURE AGREESENT     ........................            8
3. THE PROJECT .. ... 11
Project Origin .......                  .     .         11
K                      Project Objectives and Description.                     11
Rationale for Bank Involvement          .               11
Investment Program ............. * ............... .....    12
4.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ............. ..............    15
Project Cost .................. .........................    15
Financing Plan        ....................    16
Procurement ....................................... ....    17
Disbursement ....... i8
5.  PROJECT IMPL4EMETATION ................................    i8
Project Management ...       ........................ ..8.....    i
Monitoring and Reporting ............... .............    19
Accounts and Auditing ...............................    19
6.  PRICES, PRODUCTION, AND MARKETING ARRANGEMENTS ........    19
Prices        ........................................    19
Production      ..........................................    20
Marketing Arrangements ................. ..............    20
The report is based on a July 1987 appraisal mission, comprising Constance
Bernard, Economist; Peter van der Veen, Mining Engineer; Roger Batstone,
Environmental Specialist; and Henrique Carneiro, Legal Department, as well
as a re-appraisal mission in March 1988 and a post-appraisal mission in
June 1988, both consisting of Ms. Bernard and Mr. van der Veen. The report
also draws on 'Price Prospects for Major Primary Comodities' (IBRD No.
814/88) and Bank work undertaken in 1983 and 1985 on sector
competitiveness.
I This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by eipients only In the perfomance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authoizion.



- ii -
Table of Contents (coutizued)                                        Pase No.
7.   FINRNCIL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .......................    21
Past Performance and Present Financial Situation ....    21
Future Financial Performa-e  ......................    21
Benefits and Justification.                                 22
Sensitivity Analysis ........ .. . . . .. . . . .  ........ .... .    23
Project Risks ................................................    24
8.   SUr ARY OF CONDITIONS AND AGIE&ENTS REACHED ..........    24
TABLS IN TsT:
1       Contribution of Sector to Economy, 1970-86 .............        1
2       Estimated Project Costs ... .............. ... . .. ...  .. .    16
3       Projected Financing Plan . ............................ .    16
4       Summary of Procurement Arrangements . ..................    17
5       Historical and Projected Prices of Aluminum ......... ....    20
6       CAP - Key Financial Indicators ........................    22
7       JAMALCO's Projected Contribution to the Economy .......    23
A*NNMS
1.    Jamaican Bauxite/Alumina Exports, 1980-1988 ...........    27
2.    Jamaica's Bauxite/Alumina Sector          ......................    29
3.    Sector Policy Statement  ..........      ................. .    33
4.    JAMALCO Ownership and Organizational Chart ............    37
5.    Environmental Action Plan ........................... ..    39
6.    Detailed Project Cost Estimates ....................           43
7.    DetailedProject FinancingPlan .......................    45
8.    Est.imated Schedule of Disbursements ..D................       47
9.    Suggested Key Indicators for Monitoring ...............    49
10.    CAP: Income Statement, 1586-93 ................... ate.    51
11.    CAPt Sources and Uses of Funds, 1986-93.......                 53
12.    CAP: Balance Sheet, 1986-93      ....       ............       55
13.    Economic and Sensitivity Analysis    .        ..........    57
14.    List of Documents Available in Project File ...........    59
IBRD Map 19950 Jamaica



±1.1 -
iuwc
~L&DOUALUGIK  110WC?I0  PIOJULCT
STAFF APPIAISAL RPOt?
LoDm and Project semarv
torrowcrs      Government of Jamaica
JeneficUnvs   Clarendon Alumina Production Company, Ltd. (CAP)
(501 -o-owner with Alcoa of the Jamalco Joint Venture (JAXALCO)
A ounts        US$15 million equivalent
v r st         Repayable in 17 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 5 years grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
On-lending     The Ministry of Finance would onlend the proceeds of the loan
Terms     :    in U.S. dollars at an interest rate of 1152 of the Bank's
standard variable interest rate and with the same grace and
amortization periods. The Government would bear the cross-
currency foreign exchange risk, although the onlending rate
includes a premium to compensate for this risk.
Project        The proposed project, vhich constitutes JAMALCO's 1989-91
Descriotiomt   investment program, has as major objectives toe  (i) sustain
production and increase the joint venture's operational effi-
ciency and productivity; (ii) improve environmental conditions
related to the plant's operations; (iii) help establish CAP as
an effective joint venture partner; and (iv) support sound
sectoral policy. The investment program includess a) comple-
tion of a third mud lake (for disposal of waste product from
alumina processing); b) preparation work for a fourth mud lake,
or alternative technology; c) relocation of 200 families;
d) spare parts; and e) investment in plant replacement and
upgrading, including equipment for improved environmental
control.
Benefits:      The proposed project will enable the plant to sustain and
increase production and improve efficiency. The plant is
projected to contribute about US$53 million annually in foreign
exchange to the economy, includinp taxation revenues of about
US$28 million annually over the       five years.  The project
also supports establishment of a ei policy that will
encourage expanded production in  ,  sector and improve
Jamaica's competitive position itL- .e industry, and
strengthened monitoring and contro. of the plant's
environmental effects.



j- lv-
Maske:         The principal risks facing the project *res  I) adverse devel-
opments in aluminum or fuel prices; and ii) possible lack of
sustained Government commitment to appropriate sectoral poli-
cies, including good management of the Government-owned joint
venture partner. These risks are manageable. The operating
costs of the plant are such that its output vill have a place
in almost any market. In particular, the plant is highly ener-
gy-efficient, and, in the event of fuel price increases, the
plant is likely to remain relatively competitive. The only
marketing situation which JAMALCO might not be able to survive
would be one in which the entire industry was at risk, such as
the advent of a lower-cost substitute for aluminum.
The degree of the Government's commitment to appropriate sector
policies and sound management practices has already been demon-
strated in adoption of a profitability-oriented taxation system
for the joint venture, the continuation of Alcoa management in
the plant, and the recruitment of qualified staff for CAP.
Estimated Costs:                        Local      Foreian        Total
-------nUS$ millions ---------
Complete Mud Lake #3                     2.1         2.2           4.3
Preparation of Mud Lake #4               0.8         1.3           2.1
Bowens Resettlement                      4.6         4.3           8.9
Mining Development                       3.3        11.9          15.2
Spare Parts (Refining)                               6.9           6.9
Plant Debottlenecking                               29.0          29.0
Environmental Control                                4.3           4.3
Other Improvement & Replacement          1.3         9.4          10.7
Total Base Costs                    12.2        69.2         81.4
Physical Contingencies                   0.9         3.8           4.7
Price Contingencies                      0.6         3.5           4.1
TOTAL COST                          13.7        76.6          90.2
Pinancint Plant                         Local      Poreian        Total
--------  S Millions --------
IBRD                                        15.0         15.0
EEC                              4.6         4.3          8.9
CAP                              9.1        22.9         32.0
ALCOA                                       34.3          34.3
Total                          13.7        76.6         90.2



Is&timt  Dtsbursmats 
'90    '91    '91    '93
Annual    2.0    8.0    4.0    1.0
Cumulative    2.0   10.0   14.0   15.0
Fizia   late of lRturn:  54S
Kcoumic Rate of Returnt   542
I~~



1.1      Aluminum is made in four production stagess bauxite mining, reflning
to produce alumina, smtling of alumina to obtain primary aluminum, and semi-
fabrication. Only the first two stages occur in Jamaica. Production of
bauxite, *alumina, and aluminum are natural resource-based (bauzite and low
cost electric power) and global industries.  Semi-fabricatio 'and the second-
ary alumin-u industry are regionally organized to serve local markets.
Backgrourd on the aluminum industry is provided in Annex 2.
lackaround
1.2      Resource Base.  Jamaica's proven bauxite reserves are estimated at
about 2 billion tons, or the equivalent of about 100 years at the present rate
of production. The bauxite is mainly trihydrate bauxite, which utilizes a
low-energy production process. The bauxite quality is a shade below average,
when compared with other trihydrate bauxite, in terms of alumina content, but
is economically superior to monohydrate ore, for which high-temperature
(energy-intensive) plants are necessary. Jamaican bauxite has a high iron
content, which contributes to a poor settling quality in the red mud residue
from the alumina processing (the solid particles remain suspended in solution,
making disposal difficult). Major advantages of Jamaican bauxite include its
fineness, which eliminates the need for crushing, relatively shallow over-
burden averaging about 18 inches, location close to a port, and proximity to
major markets in the U.S. and Canada. Before-tax mining costs compare very
favorably with the rest of the world.
1.3      During most of the post-var period, bauxitelalumina production has
been a central economic activity in Jamaica, in terms of its contribution to
foreign exchange gereration and, to a lesser extent, employment. Since the
middle 1970s, it has been the single most Important source of Government reve-
nue as well (ses Table 1 below). Although reduced production rates and clo-
sures have decreased the contribution of the industry in recent years, it
continues to be economically significant, particularly with regard to foreign
exchange generation.
Table 1: aO TfIBUTIR OF SEOR TO ECONQCY, 1970-86
1970-3     1974-81     1982-6
Average Annual Bauxite
Production (mm tpa)                 12.6        11.9         7.8
2 of GDP                            12.2?       11.02        5.8Z
Z of Gross Exports                  40.12       52.82       35.22
S of Government Revenues             9.9S      21.42        12.0Z
1.4      2-nlo,ment.  The industry is capital-intensive and generates rela-
tively modest employment. Direct employment frnm bauxite/alumina exceeded



-2-
6,000 in the early 1970., but has since dropped to about 3,000. Labor rela-
tions for the industry were poor in the 1970s, with frequent strikes inter-
rupting production. In recent years, however, relations between management
and labor have improved substantially, and work stoppages have ceased to we a
major problem. The most recent round of compensation negotiations took ploce
at the end of 1986.
1.5      Th  CogDgnles.  Bauxite/alumina producers in 1984 included two
bauxite mines producing for export and three integrated bauxitelalumina opera-
tions. The major operators are as follows:
Kais2r Jamaic  Bauxite ConDanT (LThC).  Since the 19409, KJBC has
been mining bauxite in Jamaica for processing into alumina in its
U.S. Gulf Coast refineries, which were specially designed for
Jamaican bauxite. Jamaica has in the past supplied about 60-702 of
the company's total bauxite requirements. In the late 19709, the
Government entered into a partnership arrangement with Kaiser.
Under the terms of this arrangement, the Government holding company
(Jamaica Bauxite Mining Company) shares 51? of capital expenditures
and is reimbursed an annual fee equivalent to 14.68? of the value of
owned assets. Kaiser retains sole ownership of the mineral lease
and production; a portion of the latter is sold to the Government at
a negotiated price. KJBC has a capacity of about 4.4 mn tpa of
bauxite, and is currently producing at a level of about 3.8 mn tpa,
in accordance with available export markets. About 2 million tons
of this amount is being processed at Kaiser's Gramercy plant in the
U.S., another 1 million is processed by Reynolds under a tolling
agreement (an agreement under which bauxite is exchanged for
alumina) and sold in the U.S. Some 800,000 tons are sold through
the Jamaican Government to the Soviet Union.
Reynolds Mininm Company CRMC). The Reynolds Mining Co., with
2.8 million tpa bauxite capacity, closed in 1984, after 40 years of
operation. The bauxite wao processed in Reynolds' U.S. Gulf Coast
refinery (Corpus Christi), which has since identified more economic
bauxite sources. The company had operated under a partnership
agreement with the Government, similar to that for Kaiser, since the
late 1970s. There are presently no serious prospects for reopening
the mine.
Alumina Partners of Jamaica (Alyart). Until 1985, Alpart operated
an alumirna refinery, with associated mining operations, which was
originally constructed by Kaiser in the early 19609 and later oper-
ated by Reynolds. Alpart was owned by Kaiser (37.5?), Reynolds
(37.5?), and Atlantic Richfield (27?) until 1984, when Atlantic
Richfield sold its share to the other two partners. In 1985, the
plant was closed after operating substantially below capacity (1.5
million tpa) for several years. The plant is the only high-tempera-
ture one in the country and has high operating costs, mainly because
of high energy costs (fuel requirements exceed 3 bbl of fuel oil per
ton of alumina) and poor quality bauxite (with a high monohydrate
component, requiring high-temperature processing). Just prior to
closure, the plant had invested about US$80 million in opening up a



-3-
new mining area and in constructing a conveyor system to enable it
to acc*se a different bauxite source about 9 miles from the plant.
This bauxite could be processed using a less energy-intensive
process, vhich plant management estimates would cost about US$28
sillion to put in place and would reduce fuel requirements to about
2 bbl per ton. In 1986, Kaiser and a subsidiary of Norsk Hydro, a
Norwegian aluminum producer, entered into a 65-35 partnership to
reopen the plant. Production is expected to co"m on stream in 1989.
J_mlcan Joint enture tJmalcal. Alcan has been operating two
alumina plants (Xirkvine and Evarton), with a capacity of about
560,000 tpa each, and associated mining operations since the 1950s.
Their operating costs are relatively low by industry standards. In
1980, the Government purchased a 72 equity share in the company,
thus forming Jamalcan. Jamalcan's production hab been below capa-
city, for the most part. in the 1970s and 19809 (800,000-900,000
tpa). In recent years, a large proportion of Alcan's Jamaican
production has been sold to third parties in the non-integrated
market.
Jamlco Joint Venture (IJamlco). Alcoa has operated an alumina
plant with a capacity of about 600,000 tpa since 1972, and has had
associated mining operations since the 1960s. In the late 19709,
the Government purchased a 62 equity share in the company, thus
forming Jamalco. As in the case of Jamalcan, the plant has operated
below capacity in the late '70. and early '80. In 1984, Jamalco
Invested about US$15 million in efficiency and debottlenecking,
which lowered operating costs to a level competitive with the lowest
in the industry and increased plant capacity to about 750,000 tpa.
In 1985, Alcoa closed the plant; it was reopened by the Government
on a lease basis later that year (see Section 2).
1.6      Receat Develousents.  Struct_-al changes in the international aiumi-
num industry in the late 19709 and early 1980s (Annex 2) were reflected in
developments in Jamaica. In the early 1980s, worldwide oversupply of alumina,
as well as competition from Australia and other sources, reduced the Jamaican
share of world bauxite output to less than I0, compared to 202 in the 1970s.
This was particularly apparent in the U.S. Gulf refineries, where closure of
one of Raiser's alumina refineries and substitution of Guinea and Australian
bauxites for Caribbean bauxites at Reynolds' Corpus Christi refinery dramati-
cally narrowed Jamaical's traditional market for bauxite. Alcan and Alcoa also
entered into long-term take-or-pay contracts in the 1970s for Boke (Guinea)
and Trombetas (Brazil) bauxite. As a consequence, when the situation of over-
supply in alumina developed in the early 1980s, alumina plants in the U.S. and
Canada supplied under these contracts were compelled to operate close to full
capacity, and Alcan and Alcoa's capacity in Jamaica was used as swing
capacity.
1.7      Jamaican output dropped substantially in 1982-1984, averaging less
than 8 million tpa. These circumstances culminated in the closure of the
Reynolds bauxite mine, the Alpart alumina plant, and the Jamalco alumina plant
in 1984 and 1985. Reynolds closed after 40 years of operation, because it was
more economic to supply its Corpus Christi plant in the U.S. with lower-cost



-4-
Guinean and Australian bauxite. The Raiser/Reynolds-owned Alpart facility was
clo&ed because operating costs of the relatively Inefficient plant were almost
twice prevailing market prices. The high cost f fuel oil and the compary's
low fuel efficiency relative to other producers were major contributing
factors.
1.8      The case of the JAMALCO plant closure was somewhat different. The
plant was the most efficient in the country. In 1984, Jamalco had invested
some US$15 million in debottlenecking and energy efficiency improvements; as a
consequence, the plant had potential production costs in the lowest quartile
of the industry cost curve operating at full capacity. Frem Alcoa's perspec-
tive, however, the closure of its Jamaican plant was a logical response to its
Internal oversupplyt the Clarendon plant was more costly than its partly
Alcoa-owned plants in Australia. These plants were the most efficient in the
world, with cheap energy (coal) and no levy; moreover, the closure of a large
percentage of Japanese aluminum smelting capacity had eliminated one of the
major markets for Alcoa Australia's alumina. Higher-cost alumina plants in
Surinam and Brazil were linked under joint venture arrangenents with hydro-
power-based aluminum smelting; closure (or not opening, in the case of the
Brazil plant, whose construction had just been completed) was legally and
operationally impractical. Finally, Alcoa's Texas alumina refinery aalso
higher cost) was committed under a long-term take-or-pay contract for Guinean
bauxite. As a consequence, there was no outlet for Clarendon's production in
the Alcoa system. At 1985 prices (approximately US$100/ton), even if Alcoa
had been willing, it could have sold in the free market only at a loss. More-
over, Alcoa was accustomed to operating in an orderly, producer-influenced
pricing enviroment, and, at that time, viewed participation in the non-
integrated market as a risky and unprofitable strategy.
1.9     In recognition of the plant's basic efficiency and in hopes that
Alcoa would eventually resume operations when the market tightened, the
Govarnment negotiated a *right-to-usel agreement with Alcoa and reopened the
plant in August 1985. (Before reopening the plant, the Government sought the
World Bankl's advice, which supported this decision.) At 1985 prices and
production costs, it was expected that the plant. could at best break even on a
cash-cost basis before taxes. However, the plant's performance exceeded
expectations. Taking advantage of Jamalco's 1984 investment and maximizing
capacity utilization, the plant increased alumina production from 350,000 tons
in 1984 to over twice that amount in 1986. At the same time, unit production
costs were substantially reduced, reflecting mainly the economies of scale
associateo with production expansion and the halving of energy prices in 1986.
Staffing stayed constant at less than 900, despite the doubling of production.
The Government was able to market production on the free market through
traders. Early in 1986, the Government negotiated a 10-year marketing con-
tract with Marc Rich, Limited, a trading company. The contract linked alumina
prices to LME metal prices and reserved a portion of the production for Alcoa
in the event it should decide to return. By the time the plant was operating
at full capacity, it was _pparent that it would generate an after-tax profit.
1.10     In; December 1986, Alcoa informed the Government that it did not
Intend to resume plant operation, and proposed a C.vernment buy-out of the
asset. Alcoa's reluctance to resume operation iii the face of its demonstrated
performance reflected several factors. A primary, reason was the crystalliza-
tion of a corporate strategy directed away from primary processing, which



- 5 -
Alcoa perceived as increasingly risky, with lower lordls of profitability, and
towards semi- and end-use fabrication. This strategy envisioned purchasing
alumina and metal outside the Alcoa system, if necessary, rather than main-
taining peak capacity. Secondly, resuming plant operation meant financing a
large investment program over the next five years (some US$96 million).
Alcoa's original proposal to the Governmnt offered an attractive price for
the asset, as well as continued management by Alcoa. Negotiations along these
lines had reached an advanced stage, 'hen, in September 1987, a new management
team at Alcoa, perhaps influenced by continued strc:g demand and prices for
aluminum. decided that there was a role for the plant In the Alcoa system
after all and indicated Alcoa's intention to resume operation of the plant on
its own behalf. After several months of negotiation, the Government and Alcoa
agreed on a new 50-50 joint venture arrangement, the details of which are set
out in Section 3.
Go-eragnt Policy in the Sector
1.11     Government policy in the bauxitelalumina sector has focused on three
central issues: taxation, control of mineral rights, and ownership. Until
the 1970s, the industry operated on an enclave basis, contributing little to
domestic value added. In the 1970s, the Government made a concerted attempt
to increase the industry's economic contribution and to establish greater
Government control of the country's bauxite resources. These efforts greatly
increased the industry's value added, but also contributed to erosion of its
international competitive position. The Government has recently taken steps
to modify the tax regime, so as to maximize the long-term value added by the
Industry through improving Jamaica's competitive position in the global
market.
1.12     S-xtton.  Prior to 1974, the Government of Jamaica derived revenues
from the sector through modest royalties--which never exceeded US$0.50 per
ton--and from taxes on assumed income. Such income taxes generated foreign
tax credits in the U.S., generally for equivalent amounts; and bauxite- or
alumina-producing companies    the country effectively bore only a minimum
royalty cost. Because an identifiable market price for bauxite did not exist,
income taxes were fixed for this product (US$0.24 cents per ton in 1950-57;
VS$0.77-US$l.54 per ton in 1958-73). The actual income from alutmina sales,
for which there was a market price of sorts, was taxed at 402. In 1973, the
last year before implementation of the levy, Jamaica derived an average
revenue of US$2.30 per ton of bauxite produced.
1.13     In the early 19709, the Jamaican Government played a major leadership
role in the establishment of the International Bauxite Association (IBA), an
association of bauxite producers. The main focus of IBA was to provide for
exchange of information, encourage consistent action among producers, and
identify ways of increasing the industry's velue added. Because of the inher-
ent difficulties in income tax regimes arising from the widespread use of
transfer pricing ir. the industry, as well as OPEC's example, several member
countries (Ghana, Guinea, Guyana) instituted production levies during
1974-1975, although the rates varied. In Jamaica, the Bauxite (Production
Levy) Act of 1974 set out a simple system, under which a levy equal to 7.S5 of
the average realized price for ingot (as reported in the 10 forms of the
relevant U.S. companies) was payable to Jamaica, based on the bauxite's
aluminum content.  The ratio of aluminum ingot to bauxite was fixed at 4.3



-6-
long tons bauxite per short ton ingot.  The Act specified minimum production
levals and increased the royalty to US$0.50 cents per ton. The income tax
became a deductible against the levy paid and, as a consequence, was
effectively cancelled.
1.14     The impact of th1is legislation was dramatic.  It resulted in a charge
of some US$14.27 per ton of bauxite (equivalent to about US$34 per ton of
alumina), about six times the previous level. Moreover, the levy did not
generate income tax credits in the U.S., as did Jamaican income tax under the
previous tax regime; it was ony deductible as a cost, which meant that each
dollar of levy substituted for income tax reduced the companies' after-tax
profits by US$0.50. The levy was modified in 1979, and reduced and simplified
in the mid-1980s. In 198a-86, the modified rate, together with concessions,
yielded US$12-$14 per ton of bauxite, or US$29-$33 per ton of alumina.
1.15     In retrospect, the levy policy created two major problems for the
industry in Jamaica. First, it sharply increased the cost of bauxite during a
period when the industry was already confronted with quadrupled fuel costs.
Jamaican bauxite, which had been low-cost relative to other producers, shifted
sharply to the higher end of the cost curve, particularly since most other
producers did not adopt similar taxation policies. At the same time, the tax
regime was not related to industry profitability. As a consequence, the
break-even market price was higher, and the need to reduce production during
adverse market situations arose more conmonly. These situations were
compounded by the international recession in the m$d-1970s.
1.16     The second, more important consequence, however, was a deterioration
in relations between the Government and the aluminum companies, and the indus-
try's perception of an unpredictable operating environment. Serious labor
problems in the mid-1970s contributed to this assessment. In an industry
characterized by a long-term perspective, countries with more stable and
predictable policy environments (i.e., Australia, Ireland) appeared far more
attractive as sites for new investment or expansions. As a consequence, the
previously existing trend away from traditional sources of bauxite supply in
the Caribbean, which had been accelerated by the impact of changing energy
costs on production economics, was intensified. Moreover, the objective of
diversifying bauxite sources may have been a factor in aluminum company deci-
sions in the late 19709 and early 19809 to construct new alumina capacity
(i.e., Aughinish in Ireland) and to enter into long-term take-or-pay supply
contracts (i.e., Trombetas in Brazil).
1.17     In 1987, the Government recognized the difficulties inherent in the
levy regime, and entered into negotiations with Alcoa and Alcan towards a
profitability-based taxation regime. Such a regime is in integral part of the
new joint venture agreement with Alcoa (para. 2.1), which establishes a base
levy at US$5/ton of bauxite when the price of aluminum on the London Metal
Exchange (LMB) is US$0.60 cents/lb. or below, equivalent to US$121ton of alu-
mina produced. For prices above US$0.60 cents, the levy would be adjusted
proportionally by a factor equal to the ratio of the current price to US$0.60.
In addition, the company would pay corporate income tax at the standard rate
of 33-1/3Z (to avoid the historical transfer pricing problem, the price for
alumina is determined based on the average of Alcoa third-party sales and



Norwegian alumina purchases). With this levy system, bauxite costs will com-
pare favorably with most other sources of supply, and the tax burden on the
company would decrease during periods of unfavorable prices. The Government
has negotiated a similar arrangement with Alcan as well. This agreement also
requires the company to operate its plants at full production, unless the
Government is unwilling to purchase at cost and market independently any alu-
mina Alcan cannot use.
1.18     Mineral Rights.  The Minerals Act of 1947 required bauxite companies
to own land before they could be granted mining rights; another provision
provided for 99-year exclusive rights to the companies with such lands. As a
consequence, there was a scramble for land acquisition in the early years of
the industry's development, with the result that the early arrivals (Kaiser
and Reynolds, in particular) acquired large land holdings. The provision that
ownership was required befere mining rights could be granted was reversed in
1957; however, those companies (Reynolds, Alcan, and Kaiser) which had already
acquired land in good faith retained it. In the mid-1970s, the Government
passed legislation which provided for Government purchase of existing bauxite
lands in exchange for 40-year mining leases.  The lease guarantees the company
sufficient bauxite to meet Lts production requirements; the company, in turn,
must maintain a minimum level of operation.  This approach is consistent with
international practice.
1.19     Ounersbii.  The Government initiated negotiations to purchase small
equity shares in all the bauxitelalumina companies (except Alpart) in the mid-
1970s, with the objective of safeguarding its bauxite resources and gaining
information about the operations of the industry.  In the case of mining
operations, it entered into an agreement to contribute 51Z to capital expendi-
tures, in return for a fixed return on its investment.  Ownership of produc-
tion and marketing responsibility for the most part remained in the hands of
the operator. In the case of Alcoa and Alcan, it purchased (by way of promis-
sory notes) 6Z and 71 shares, respectively, and was entitled to a comparable
share of the production. This was marketed on the Government's behalf by the
companies. The Government chose not to pursue an equity participation in
Alpart because of the relative inefficiency of the company. In general, the
Government has not sought a significant level of ownership in the industry,
even during the period in the 1970s when public participation in a number of
productive enterprises increased sharply, and currently it does not intend to
seek additional equity. In the case of CAP, the Government made an exception
and took on a 50Z share (para. 2.1) because the terms of the agreement are
favorable for the country and, in particular, to permit satisfaction of its
existing long-term marketing commitments (para. 6.4).
1.20     Government Policy Statement.  A stable and predictable policy envi-
ronment is a critical element to the industry's future performance. While the
Government's actions in the area of the levy regime reflect a realistic under-
standing of the current international environment, they have been a part of
individual negotiations and not presented clearly as part of a broader policy
stance. Accordingly, agreement was reached in the course of project prepara-
tion on a statement summarizing sector policy, signed by the Minister of
Mining, Energy and Tourism on March 3, 1989 (Annex 3). The statement empha-
sizes the maintenance of a taxation policy consistent with industry profita-
bility.  It also confirms that the Government has no current plans to purchase



equity in the sector, but would subject any such actions in the future to
economic criteria. The draft Loan Agreement also includes a remedy which
would enable the Bank to suspend disbursements in the event that a substantial
change is made in the Governments sectoral policies, as outlined in the March
3, 1989 document, so as to materially and adversely affect the economic
viability of the project.
Government Inatitutions in the Sector
1.21     The major Government institutions operating in the sector are as
follows5
Ministry of Min&na. Bner"v. and Tourism OlEE). MME is the Govern-
ment Ministry responsible for setting policy in the sector. The
Boards of other Government institutions in the mining sec;or report
to the Minister of MME.  The Ministry has no technical staff in the
bauxitelalumina area, and WME relies entirely on Jamaica Bauxite
Institute staff for its technical input.
Jamaica Bauxite Institute CJBI). JBI is the successor to the
National Bauxite Commission, established in 1972 to develop an
information base about the industry and to advise the Government on
how to maximize the benefits to the country. A statutory body with
a professional staff of about 60, JBI has been the Government's
technical adviser in taxation policy and equity participation in the
industry. JBI's other major priorities comprise, inter alia,
reserve mapping and management, process research, economic and
financial research and analysis, and environmental effects.
Jamaica Bauxite Mining Caimany. Limited (JIM). JBM was established
in 1980 as a holding company for Government equity shares in
bauxitelalumina production companies; its Board reports to the MHE.
JBM has only one full-time professional staff member. JBM also
handles bauxite sales to the Soviet Union. It currently has equity
in Jamalco and Jamalcan.
Bauxite/Alumina Tradins Company. Limited (BATCO). BATCO was estab-
lished in 1980 to market the Government-owned bauxite and alumina
production. Its Board, which shares several members with that of
JIM, reports to the MMH. BATCO has about 5 full-time professional
staff, who are responsible for administering existing marketing
contracts (alumina with Marc Rich and bauxite with the Soviet
Union). It charges CAP a commission of 0.5 of sales for its servi-
ces. To date, BATCO has not played a significant role in contract
negotiation, since it lacks appropriate in-house expertise; this
function has been performed mainly by MME, with JBI assistance.
2. CL-ARENDN ALUMINA PRODUCTION, LIMITED
AND THE JOINT VENTREM AGRZEDEUT
2.1      Clarendon Alumina Production. Limited (CAP).  CAP, wholly-owned by
the Government, was incorporated in 1985, pursuant to the 1985 agreement



- 9 -
between Alcoa and Jamaica. This agreement provided CAP the right to operate
the Jamalco plant. Under the terms of the agreement, CAP was responsible for
all operating and capital costs and entitled to the plant's production. Alcoa
maintained its existing management team in the plant. The agreement had a
term of three years, with a possible extension to five. It provided that
Alcoa could return at any time, but that, if it did, it would be committed to
operating the plant at full capacity until August 1988. Alcoa was responsible
for costs associated with restarting the plant, and contributed the equivalent
of its would-have-been mothballing costs in the form of a fee. CAP paid no
lease for operating the plant.
2.2      At start-up, prospects for success were uncertain, particularly with
regard to the company's ability to market its production; however, plant
performance exceeded expectations. The company was generating a profit by the
time it reached full production. On March 3, 1988, Alcoa of Jamaica and CAP
entered into an agreement, which redefines their respective participation in
the operation of the alumina plant and details the new tax regime applicable
to its operation (para. 1.17). Jamalco was transformed into an unincorporated
joint venture with 50 ownership by Alcoa, 442 ownership by CAP and 6S by JBM.1
The new arrangement has the following features (see Annex 4 for organizational
chart):
a)       The purchase price for the equity purchase by CAP (441) was set at
US$26.5 million. Against this amount, a settlement of US$9.4 million
was made in favor of CAP, leaving an outstanding obligation of
US$17.1 million;
b)       The US$17.1 million was not to be paid to Alcoa directly, but instead
contributed to the joint venture as Alcoa's 50S share of the invest-
ment program. After this obligation was met, responsibility for
future investments would be shared equally between the two partners.
Interest on a declining balance basis was set at 8? on unpaid pur-
chase money (which for the purpose of interest calculations only, was
deemed to be initially US$15.5 million);
c)       In order for the Government to meet existing marketib.g commitments to
Marc Rich, Alcoa would sell part of its share of production to CAP in
1988 and 1989 at production cost (cash cost plus levy and royalties,
plus a fixed depreciation charge);
d)       The Government paid all amounts due on promissory notes created in
1980, when it acquired its 6? interest in the company (the
outstanding amount was about US$3 million);
e)       The plant would at all times produce at maximum capacity, unless
otherwise agreed by the partners.  If one partner should not wish to
take part of its production share, it would be required to offer it
to the other at a price equivalent to production cost;
f)       The contract sets out the intention of the parties to expand the
plant from its present sustainable capacity of 750,000 tpa to
1,000,000 tpa;
t1 The agreement provided for JBM to transfer its original 6? share to CAP
by March 9, 1989 and gave CAP authority to act on JBM's behalf in the
interim.



- 10 -
g)       Neither partner to the agreement would sell part or all of its share
to a third party during the first three years of the agreement.
?hereafter, such sale is subject to the partner's concurrence and
right of first refusal; and
h)       The plant will be managed by Alcoa.2  The Plant Manager would report
to an Executive Comittee, composed of four representativet appointed
by Alcoa and four by CAP, which would meet at least four times a
year. The chairman of this Committee would be chosen alternately
from CAP and Alcoa representatives, but would have no casting vote.
The first Chairman would be the current chairman of the Jamaica
Bauxite Institute and of CAP. An Operations Committee. with three
representatives from each group, would also be established; it would
provide technical support to the Executive Committee and meet month-
ly. The Plant Manager woald have discretion over expenditures below
US$50,000. Expenditures in excess of this amount, but below
US$100,000, would require authorization of the Operations Coumittee.
Expenditures over US$100,000 would require Executive Committee
approval.
2.3      This arrangement provided a number of advantages to Jamaica. It
provided continued access to and association with Alcoa's technology and
management expertise, enabled the country to service its long-term marketing
contract with Marc Rich, and provided a purchase price for the asset substan-
tially below replacement value. From Alcoa's point of view, the agreement
assures a stable levy regime that reflects the industry's profitability and
provides financing for the upcoming investment program. Perhaps most impor-
tantly, the agreement requires the plant to operate at full capacity, thus
maximizing the size and stability of the plant's contribution to value added
and enabling both parties to minimize their unit production costs because of
economies of scale.
2.4      As the Government-owned joint venture parties in the Jamalco venture,
CAP with Alcoa-owner will have equal responsibility for review and approval of
expenditure (operating and capital) budgets prepared by Alcoa-operator. In
addition, while Alcoa-operator will maintain cost accounts and prepare expend-
iture budgets, CAP will need to prepare and monitor its own revenue budgets
and accour-s, manage its cash flow, and mobilize and service financing as
needed. BATCO would continue to administer the existing market contract with
Marc Rich.
2.5      CAP has a five-member Board, with three Government representatives
and two from the private sector. The Board also relies on staff from the
local office of P.ice Waterhouse for financial consultancy services.  The
Board reports directly to the Minister of Mining, Energy, and Tourism. CAP's
Chairman also acts as Managing Director of the Company. In addition, finan-
cial and technical managers satisfactory to the Bank have been appointed.
Preparation of an operating manual for CAP, setting out job descriptions and
lines of authority, is substantially complete, and its adoption by the CAP
2/ For purposes of clarity, the report henceforth refers to Alcoa-owner
and Alcoa-operator, to distinguish between Alcoa's two roles in the
joint venture.



- 11 -
Board is a condition of loan effectiveness. Furthermore, at negotiations CAP
agreed to maintain qualifLed and experienced management satisfactory to the
Bank, assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
3. T?a PYOJUCT
Protect orimin
3.1      In March 1985, the Government requested the Bank's advice with regard
to reopening the Jamalco-owned plant at Clarendon, which had been closed by
Alcoa the previous month. The Bank supported the plan, in view of the plant's
favorable cost characteristics and important economic contribution, and the
Government then negotiated the 1985 lease arrangement with Alcoa. In August
1986, the Government requested that the Bank consider financing the proposed
project. The project was appraised in July 1987, but the change in ownership
arrangements necessitated a re-appraisal mission in March 1988 and a post-
appraisal mission in June 1988. Negotiations were held in April 1989, with
the Jamaican delegation led by Mr. Harold Milner, Financial Secretary.
Prolect Obiectives and Descristion
3.2      The proposed project, which constitutes JAMAiLC's 1989-91 investment
program, has as major objectives tos (a) sustain production and increase the
joint venture's operational efficiency and productivity; (b) help improve the
environmental conditions related to the plant's operations; (c) help establish
CAP as an effective joint venture partner; and (d) support sound sectoral
policy. The three-year investment program totals about US$90.2 million. The
Bank would finance replacement and improvement of mining and plant equipment,
upgrading investments, and spare parts (Annex 7) included in the investment
program. The program would consist of the following major componentss (i)
completion of a third red mud lake for disposal of the waste product from
alumina processing (with a life of five years); (ii) feasibility and prepara-
tion work toward the construction of additional mud disposal capacity; (iii)
the relocation of Bowens (a small comxunity of 200 families); (iv) spare
parts; (v) mining development; (vi) plant upgrading investments to debottle-
neck production; and (vii) investment in plant and mining equipment replace-
ment and improvement, including environmental control equipment.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.3      The Bank's current lending strategy in Jamaica emphasizes the need to
expand exports through operations that promote an improved policy framework,
such as the Trade and Finance Sector Loan (Ln. 2848-JA), and those that sup-
port the supply response. The proposed project supports improved policy for a
key export sector and provides needed financing for a reliable generator of
foreign exchange, crucial to the future adjustment effort. Failure to carry
out the plant's capital program would eventually prevent the plant from main-
taining production at present levels. Moreover, Bank involvement would help
launch CAP in its new role as joint venture partner, and contribute to sound
environmental policy, through execution of an environmental action program and
exploration of new mud lake disposal technology.



- 12-
IZvestmuat Pronrm
3.4      A summary of the three-year investment program  is set out in Annex 6.
A detailed description of its major components follows.
3.5      Comatructio. of *ed Mud Lake J1.  In the extraction of alumina from
the bauxite ore, a red mud residue is created, which is then pumped to earth-
dyked lakes for disposal. The residue is generated at the approsmate rate of
1.5 tons per ton of alumina produced, and requires a safe disposal area
because of its large volume and high concentration of caustic soda. Since the
plant began operations in 1972, two conventional wet-type mud disposal lakes
have been built and put into service, the first in 1972 and the second in
1977. The first is now almost completely filled, and the second will be
filled by 1990. Accordingly, construction of a third lake was begun in 1988,
to avoid interrupting production.
3.6      The construction cost of Mud Lake #3 is estimated at US$12.6 million,
excluding contingencies; of this amount, approximately US$4.3 million remains
to be spent in 1989. Construction will consist mainly of civil works (primar-
ily earth-moving) and mechanical and electrical installations. Construction
will require excavation and erection of perimeter dykes, which will be 50 to
60 feet above the existing ground. The lake will be sealed with an imperme-
able clay layer and will incorporate an underdrainage system, consisting of a
sand blanket with a system of drain pipes. The liner will prevent seepage of
fluid containing caustic soda and, consequently, contamination of ground water
supplies (this is unlikely at the present site in any case, since it is not
close to underground aquifers). The underdrainage system will reduce hydro-
static pressure on the liner, reduce caustic soda concentrations in the lake,
and provide for caustic soda recovery and reuse.
3.7      Research and Develoement for Mud Lake #4.  The long-tern plant objec-
tive calls for future mud disposal of the drying-field type, in which densi-
fied mud is deposited in layers and allowed to dry naturally before additional
layers are deposited. This technology permits easy reclamation of the land
used for disposal. Jamaican red muds, however, are recognized as the most
difficult in the industry to dewater; therefore, special systems need to be
developed to thicken, pump, and dry by solar evaporation. In addition, the
technology requires initial construction of a drying bed to its full extent,
as well as a back-up lake for use during periods of high rainfall. In order
to operate such a system at Jamalco, further up-front capital cost would be
incurred, since installation of deep mud thickeners and of special pumps to
transfer the thickened muds to drying beds would be required. Consequently,
additional work needs to be done in evaluating the economic and technical
feasibility of using the dry-stacking technology, compared to conventional mud
lake construction or to hybrid solutions (one option to be evaluated is the
dredging of consolidated mud from existing beds for disposal on drying beds,
thus extending the life of the wet mud ponds). Consequently, Mud Lake #3 is
being built using available technology to sustain plant operations, while
research and development work (US$2.1 million) is undertaken with regard to
the dry-stacking option for Mud Lake 14.
3.8      Dowens Relocation.  Bowens is a small community of about 200 families
located west of the existing mud lakes, on the proposed site for the fourth



- 13 -
mud disposal system scheduled for construction in 1992. The residents make
their living primarily from subsistence agriculture, including cane
cultivation.
3.9      The community consists of some 195 residences, 6 churches, 11 shops,
one preschool, and a community facility. The comunity fully supports the
planned relocation, as indicated by the fact that 95Z of the heads of house-
holds have already signed a letter of intent to swap like-for-like (area of
land and size of home) in the new development to be constructed some five
miles away. Detailed design of roads has been completed; detailed design of
buildings and infrastructure is underway.   Fruit-bearing trees will be
replaced, and identified grave plots (some 300) on the resident's land will be
exhumed and relocated in a separate cemetery. The new residential area will
occupy some 200 acres, including open space, as required by planning laws.
Another agricultural area some 12-15 miles away has been identified to relo-
cate 5 larger land-holders. No resident will lose his employment as a result
of the relocation.
3.10     The total cost for the relocation is estimated at US$8.9 million and
is expected to be completed in 1990. Of this amount, building construction
accounts for about US$3.0 million, and infrastructure, for $4.25 million. The
relocation cost per family is high because construction of low-income housing
in Jamaica is governed by planning laws which set strict minimum standards for
electricity, vater and sewerage, drainage, and roads. As a consequence, the
new residential area will represent a substantial improvement over existing
conditions in Bowens, where roads are poor, there is no drainage or sewage
treatment, and water has to be transported in by tanker. The relocation pro-
gram as set out in the environmental action letter dated April 13, 1989 (Annex
5) is consistent with Bank guidelines; its execution by CAP is a covenant in
the loan agreement.
3.11     Investment In Mining and Plant Replacem_nt/Dmrovemnts.  Investments
in mining development, estimated at US$15.2 million, consist of road construc-
tion and other civil works directed at providing access to new mining areas.
In addition, the project includes a plant upgrading program, at a cost of
about US$29.0 million, comprising equipment to be upgraded or replaced in the
clarification, precipitation, and calcining areas--included are an additional
row of precipitators, two additional settlers, pumps, agitators, piping, elec-
trical equipment, and instrumentation aimed at reducing production bottle-
necks. These upgrading measures will eventually enable the plant to sustain
production at 850,000 tpa by 1992 and contribute to the achievement of a pro-
duction level of about 1,000,000 tpa by 1995. About US$6.9 million in spare
parts will also be required during the period. In addition, about US$4.3
million would be spent on equipment related to reducing sulphur dioxide mdis-
sion, reducing production of alumina dust, and minimizing other dust problems
in the plant vicinity. Finally, about US$10.7 million will be required for
routine equipment replacement.
3.12     Environmental Imact.  The main environmental problems associated
with operation of mud lakes are the danger of groundwater contamination from
the highly alkaline liquids in the red mud and the withdrawal of land from
potential productive use. Contamination of groundwater had in fact occurred



- 14 -
early in the industry' s history in Jamaica at the Alpart plant, where no seal-
er was used in the mud lake construction. Both lakes at the JAMALCO plant
have been constructed with an impervious liner, however, in order to prevent
seepage. Well water in the area has been regularly monitored since construc-
tion of the plant; chemical analysis (even in close proximity to the lakes)
has not shown any increased levels of alkalinity. In addition, the under-
drainage system proposed for Mud Lake 13 will limit environmental risk fur-
ther, by reducing hydrostatic pressure on the seal and by reducing caustic
soda concentration in the lake. The underdrainage will also increase mud
density, thus increasing the potential for reclamation after filling (mud
lakes without underdrains are virtually impossible to reclaim).
3.13     An additional environmental problem associated with plant operations
is the corrosion of galvanized iron roofs in the vicinity of the plant (appar-
ently caused by the cumbined effect of sulphur dioxide emissions from fuel
combustion and bauxite dust).   A clear pattern of higher roof-replacement
rates in the vicinity of the plant is evident, varying from 3-5 years within
0.5 miles of the plant to 15-20 years at about 2 miles (theoretical roof-
replacement expectations vary from 8-40 years, depending on roof type). The
most significant evidence for enhanced corrosion near alumina plants is pro-
vided by a thorough study conducted by Alcan; this study found evidence of
accelerated corrosion within a 3 km radius of its plants. Based on these
results, Alcan adopted a policy of replacement with aluminum roofs, which
JAMALCO intends to use as a model (estimated replacement cost, US$l million).
One of the difficulties in analyzing the causes of the corrosion problem is
that sulphur dioxide sampling carried out by Alcoa since 1979 has used an
outdated method (lead candle), with insufficient frequency. To obtain more
reliable data, Clarendon Alumina Production, Limited has purchased a more
Sensitive portable instrument that will provide a direct sulphur dioxide read-
out, and plans to increase the frequency of sampling. Submission of a labora-
tory analysis of the initial data collected by this instrument and indicating
a level of sulphur dioxide satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of
loan effectiveness.
3.14     Other environmental nuisances caused by plant operations include
occasional dust, odor, and aesthetic concerns. During 1985, water levels in
the two mud lakes were allowed to drop, causing beaches to form around the
periphery. These dried out, and dust blow-off occurred during windy periods.
The company now maintains water levels that keep the accumulated mud saturated
with water above the dusting condition of 20Z moisture. High-efficiency (99Z
dust removal) electrostatic precipitators are installed on the alumina calci-
ner; however, even at this high efficiency, some alumina dust is emitted from
calciner stacks. JAMALCO intends to replace this equipment with new electro-
static precipators with a higher efficiency level in 1990. Under certain
conditions, high dust loadings can be emitted into the atmosphere for short
periods, and may cause a dust nuisance downwind. Recently, rail wagons with
poorly fittlng top covers and leaking bottoms have also caused dust problems.
The company is currently inspecting all rail wagons and refitting them with
special sealing valves. Fugitive dust blow-off from the unvegetated plant
site was also a problem early in the plant's life; however, the site is now
mostly covered by a well-kept grass cover. The company intends to purchase
additional dust control equipment in 1990. In general, the company's house-
keeping record is recognized as one of the best in the industry, and all
reasonable efforts have been made to limit dust problems.



- 15 -
3.15     A relatively high number of households in the vicinity complain of
odor nuisance, which arises mainly in the red mud ponds due to the biological
decomposition of organic flocculants and the high caustic soda concentration
of the waste. The industry has investigated means of odor control, but as yet
no suitable economic means have been identified. Fortunately, only downwind
areas are affected, which means that exposure is intermittent, depending on
wind direction.
3.16     Since the plant site is mainly flat agricultural land, construction
of high dams around the lakes blocks the views of some residents. As in the
past, during construction of the third mud lake, a landscaping program for the
new embankments was implemented. The walls facing the community have been
constructed first to act as noise barriers for completion of the construction
program. Increased dust levels will also occur, but dust control measures,
such as water spraying and calcium chloride treatment of roads, will be
practiced.
3.17     Relations between the plant and the surrounding community (Hayes)
have been tense in the past, particularly with regard to the corrosion issue.
The joint venture has taken steps to improve relations and strengthened the
post of community relations officer with this objective. In addition to
redressing the roof damage, the plant intends to provide manpower and mate-
rials in support of small social welfare projects in the community, hold
regular meetings with the press and the community, and give reasonable
priority to labor in the local area for employment on construction projects.
3.18     The Jamaica Bauxite Institute completed an environmental assessment
as part of project preparation.  An environmental action program based on this
assessment is set out in the environmental action letter signed by the
Chairman of the Jamaica Bauxite Institute on April 13, 1989 (Annex 5). The
main features of the action program includes  i) satisfactory and timely exe-
cution of the roof replacement program: ii) continued monitoring of air and
water quality in the plant vicinity; and iii) efforts to improve relations
between the plant and the surrounding coumunity.  Execution of the agreed
environmental action program is covenanted in the Project Agreement.
4. PlOJECT COST AND FINCIII¢
Proiect Cost
4.1      Project cost estimates were prepared by Alcoa staff in 1986, based on
previous experience with similar equipment, updated suppliers' quotations, and
engineering studies. The costs were reviewed and updated in early 1989.
Physical contingencies of 5? have been assumed for mobile equipment and for
equipment with little installation requirement, while 102 was used for other
investments.  Price contingencies were based on the following estimates of
U.S. dollar inflation:  6? in 1989, 1.52 in 1990, and 4.42 in 1991.  These
escalation rates have been used for both local and foreign costs; it is
assumed that differentials in local and international inflation will be com-
pensated for by adjustments in the exchange rate. Detailed project costs are
presented in Annex 6 and s9umarized below.



- 16 -
Table 2: NSTUK&?D PROJECT COSTS
Z Foreign     2 of
Component                 Local    Foreign    Total    Exchange       Total
Complete Mud Lake #3      2,150     2,150       4,300        50        5.0
Prepar. Mud Lake #4         800     1,300       2,100        62        2.5
Bowens Resettlement       4,600     4,300       8,900        48       10.4
Mining Development        3,315    11,882      15,197        78       17.8
Spare Parts {Refining)              6,900       6,900       100        8.1
Plant Debottlenecking              29,000      29,000       100       34.0
Environmental Control                4,295      4,295       100        5.0
Other                     1.303     9.415      10,718        88       12.6
Total Base Costs         12.168    69.242      81.410        85       90.3
Physical Contingency        946     3,785       4,731        80        5.2
Price Contingency           550     3,539       4,090        87        4.5
TOTAL COSTS              13.664    76.566      90.230        85      100.0
linancinR Plan
4.2      Of the total project cost of US$90.2 million, the proposed IBRD loan
of US$15 million would cover about 17Z. Parallel financing from EEC is anti-
cipated to cover another US$8.9 million (about 102). CAP would provide about
US$32 million, about 35Z. from its internal cash generation, and Alcoa's con-
tribution is projected to amount to US$34 million, or 382 of total project
costs. Bank financing would cover about 202 of foreign exchange costs, and
EEC financing would cover US$4.3 million (62) of foreign costs and US$4.6
million (352) of local costs. Alcoa would cover about 452 of foreign exchange
costs. The remaining foreign exchange costs (about US$22.9 million, or 30X)
would be met by CAP. A detailed financing plan is presented in Annex 7, and
i8 summarized below.
Table a: PSOECIU FDWICI  PLM
(US1 Mt I IIlons)
Amwut        U
Fund Riou Ird            9.2      196.0
Sourm" of Funds
ID                       15.J      10.7
EEC                       5.0       9.9
CAP                      52.6      8.4
Alcoa                    84.5      85.1
Total                90.2     190.9



- 17 -
4.3      The Government has applied to the Zuropean Economic Community for
access to its Mineral Systems Facility (SYSMl). Approval in principle hba
been given for an amount up to ECUs28 million (US$32 aillion) in support of
CAP and certain export diversification projects; of this amount, the
equivalent of about US$8.9 million would be available for the Iowens
resettlement program. The EEC has furnished the Bank a letter of intent
indicating that this financing is under consideration. Final approval of the
SYSMIN funding, or alternative financing arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank, is a condition of effectiveness.
4.4      The proposed Sank loan of US$15 million would be extended to the
Government of Jamaica for a period of 17 years. including 5 years grace, at
the standard lank interest rate. The Governrent would onlend loan proceeds to
CAP in U.S. dollars at 1151 of the Bank's interest rate and with the same
grace and amortization periods. CAP would bear the interest rate risk and the
U.S. dollar/Jamaican dollar foreign exchange risk. The Government would bear
other foreign exchange risks arising fron changes in the exchange rate betweer.
the U.S. dollar and other Bank pool currencies. Execution of a subsidiary
loan agreement between the Government and CAP would be a condition of loan
effectiveness. Under the terms of the latter, CAP would undertake to make the
loan proceeds available to the joint vent-Are. The proposed SYSMIN loan is on
concessional terms, with a term of 40 years. including 10 years grace, and an
interest rate of 22. It has not yet been decided whether the loan would be
made directly to CAP or through the Central Government; for purposes of
financial analysis, it vas assumed that these funds were onlent to CAP at
commercial rates.
Procurement
4.5      Procurement for all Bank-financed items will follow Bank procurement
guidelines. Mining, plant, and soee environmental control equipment in an
amount estimated at US$3.7 million vould be procured under international
competitive bidding procedures (ICD). Mining and plant equipment requiring
special installation (US$6.4 million) would be procured according to ICB
procedures. Other equipment related to environmental control, in the amount
of US$2.7 aillion, would be procured on the basis of limited international
bidding procedures (LIS), because of the limited number of suppliers for these
items. Approximately US$2.25 million in spare parts would be purchased
directly, to ensure compatibility with existing equipment. Procurement
documentation corresponding to all Bank-financed contracts in amounts in
excess of US$100,000 equivalent would receive prior review by the Bank. Items
financed by EEC would be procured in accordance with EEC procurement
procedures. Items financed by CAP would be procured in accordance with
Alcoa's normal procurement practices. Procurement arrangements for goods are
summarized in the following tables
TaIle 4: SA    O PO M W  NmEGfTM
QJRS Mlltlll_)
Procueement method
Project co"monnt        C      Dliret   LID   OUer   Total
Equip met               2.7                    44.6    47.8
(KM)                 (2.7)                           (2-7)
Spare Parts                      0.9                   609
( DM)                         (2.26)                 (2.26)
(continued)
* To be proeurd according to Alcor'e lnternol procedures or EEC's reqiremente.



- 18 -
li1- 4   =NW GP PUSOMIM    IWT  (oont)nv.d)
Projet C    _pa.t       ICe    D1 me      Lt Ls    ot*   TotaI
Cv Is orks.             7,4                    22.8     *.y
(IW)                 (0.4)                        - 6.4)
(EEC)                                        (6.9)    (,0)
EnvironmsaUl Equlpmet    1.6     .C    2.7              4.8
(lI)                 (1.6)            (2.7)          ...7)
Lan Purchase                     IS2.                   2
Total             11.1      0.C    2.7   66.9 0     ,2
(ID)          (iL1)    (2.25)  (2.7)          (16.6)
(EEC)                                  (6.9)    (0.9)
. To be procured acordhng to AlcoaX* Internal procedure. or EEC's reqlrmmsnts.
Disbursemnt
4.6      The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed as follows:
a)       100X of foreign expenditures for equipment, vehicles, spare parts,
and materials (US$6.' million); and
b)       1002 of foreign expenditures and 602 of local expenditures for civil
works (US$6.4 million).
In addition, there vould be an unallocated amount of US$2.2 million.  Dis-
bursements would be based on approved withdrawal applications, with supporting
documentation. Retroactive financing in the amount of US$1 million would be
made available for expenditures on equipment, vehicles, and spare parts. A
Special Account in the amount of US$1 million would be established in the Bank
of Jamaica to facilitate project execution.
4.7      The disbursement profile for the project (Annex 7) is four years,
based on estimates of order placements. The disbursement profile is shorter
than the standard industry profile (six years) for the following reasons:
(a) the project is a three-year investment program; (b) equipment and spare
parts for the plant do not require special manufacture; and (c) the plant
manager is highly experienced in equipment procurement and installation. The
project's completion date is June 30, 1993, and the loan Closing Date is
December 31, 1993.
5. PROJECT IMPLDIRUATION
Proiect Manamemet
5.1      CAP and Alcoa-owner, as partners in Jamalco, will be responsible for
project implementation. (JBM is also legally a partner, until it transfers



- 19 -
its 62 share formally to CAP in March 1989. Until that time, CAP is empowered
to act on JBM's behalf.) They in turn will rely on Alcoa-operator to manage
the plant, including, inter alia, preparation of budgets and progress reports,
maintenance of appropriate records and accounts, purchasing, and investment
program management. CAP would review and approve the budgets prepared by
Alcoa-operator. It would communicate with the Bank about all aspects of the
project, and would be responsible for compliance with the reporting and audit-
ing requirements set out below. In order to ensure that the project is
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the project agreement, Alcoa
would enter into an implementation agreement with CAP, JBM, and the Govern-
ment, satisfactory to the Bank. Through this agreement, Alcoa would. inter
alia, undertake to follow Bank procurement and disbursement procedures for
items financed by the Bank and enable CAP, as appropriate, to comply with its
obligations to the Bank. Execution of this agreement would be a condition of
loan effectiveness.
Monitorint and RePortinst
5.2      Alcoa's operator currently prepares monthly reports for partners,
detailing the financial and operating performance of the plant and indicating
cost variances from budgetted figures. CAP sunmAirizes these reports on a
monthly basis, together with revenue and financing records, for presentation
to its Board. These reports, taken together, contain the key indicators for
monitoring project performance, listed in Annex 9. Assurances were obtained
from CAP during negotiaticns that quarterly reports providing this information
would be sent to the Bank, within two months of the end of each reporting
period. CAP would furnish to the Bank by December 31 each year Jamalco's
expenditure budget for the following year for coment. Bank approval of the
items to be financed with loan proceeds would be a condition of disbursement
for the following year. In addition, CAP would submit its operating and capi-
tal budgets to the Bank by March 31 of the previous fiscal year for comment.
CAP would prepare a Project Completion Report to be sent to the Bank within
six months after the Project Closing Date.
Accounts and Auditina
5.3      CAP's accounts are audited by the local office of the international
accounting firm of Price Waterhouse. The joint venture agreement provides
that each partner have complete access to Jamalco's records and information,
as well as requiring that Jamalco's accounts be audited annually. Agreement
was reached at negotiations that CAP would continue to have its accounts
(including project expenditures) audited annually by independent auditors
satisfactory to the Bank and according to standard business practices and that
this audit and the Jamalco audit would be submitted to the Bank within four
months of the end of the respective fiscal years.
6. PRICES, PRODUCTION, AND MARKETING WARRAGUENTS
Prices
6.1      Apart from a brief rally in 1983, aluminum prices remained at rela-
tively low levels during 1981-86, with sharp dips to about US$1,100/ton in



-20 -
1982 and 1985 (see Table 5 below). As a result of five years of consumntion
growth and capacity stagnation, world operating rates for the Industry aqtE
currently at about 952, and inventories are at historically low levels. ki,e
relatively few new projects brought on stream since 1982 have been offset by
massive closures in the U.S. and Japan and more modest shutdowns in Europe.
Consequently, a resurgence in demand in 1987, particularly in Japan and other
Asian countries, contributed to a steady price rise. In 1988, prices reached
a historic high, peaking close to US$3,000/ton, almost triple the 1985 level,
and averaging US$2,400/ton for the year.  A slowdown in world economic growth
anticipated in the next few years is expected to lower consumption growth
rates, resulting in a weakening of prices in real terms in 1989 and 1990,
followed by a long-term trend toward stability in real levels in the following
decade.
Tabl- 6: HRSTICAL NO   JECIEO PS   F  ALUMIU
M pwr Toe)
196C Dol Iat-   Cur e t Dol lars
1061           1,278            1,88
1962           1,'              1,51
9s"            1,484            1,45
1984            I,$"            1,871
low            1,119            1,119
1056           I,5m             1,261
1987           1,287            1,2C1
1983           1,"66            2,40
to8"           1,75             2,1"
1990            1,1"            1,35
19ow           1,29             2,36
2JZ             1,26            2,95
6.2      For the financial analysis (Section 7), alumina prices are projected
at a percentage of world aluminum prices on the London Metals Exchange, as
projected in the above forecast.
Production
6.3      The plant is currently producing at a rate equivalent to about
720,000 tpa. The financial analysis assumes that the plant will produce
725,000 tons in 1989/90, increasing to 750,000 tons by 1990/91, to 800,000
tons by 1991/2, to 875,000 tons by 1993/94, and to about 1 million tons by
199516.
Marketioa Arransements
6.4      In 1986, CAP negotiated a 10-year marketing arrangement for the bulk
of its alumina production with Marc Rich, Limited, a trading company. The



- 21 -
agreement obligates Rich to take tonnage equivalent to about 46X of plant
production projected for the next 8 years, and gives the company an option (at
the contract price) for additional tonnage. CAP consequently has secure
markets for almost QO;O of its share of targetted production over the next 8
years, as well as the possibility of additional sales when the plant increases
production beyond 850,000 per annum.
7. FINNCIAL AND tCONOMIC ANALYSIS
Past Performnce and Present Financial Situation
7.1      CAP's initial financial structure was highly leveraged, with a small
asset base (consisting mainly of fuel, spare parts, and alumina inventory)
financed entirely by debt (Annex 10). At the close of its first financial
year, in March 1986, the company had been operating for about eight months at
a low production level; it nevertheless generated a before-tax surplus of
about US$4.7 million during that period. The heavy taxation obligation under
the old levy regime converted this gain to an after-tax loss of about
US$4 million, financed in part through an increase in short-term debt. As a
consequence, the company's financial situation had worsened by the beginning
of the second year of operation, and a negative equity position developed.
This situation reflected taxation policy, and not the plant's basic operating
characteristics.
7.2      At full operation the next year, CAP was able to generate an operat-
ing profit of about US$24 million, enabling the company to pay taxes amounting
to almost US$14 million and to generate retained earnings of about US$7.6
million. As a consequence, CAP was able to strengthen its equity position and
to bring its debt/equity ratio down to 80:20. This trend continued in FY88,
when retained earnings amounted to US$12 million (after total taxes of about
US$20 million), which, together with classification of a large part of the
Alcoa debt as a current liability, brought the long-term debt/equity ratio
further down, to about 46:54. However, the increase in the current portion of
long-term debt payable turned net current assets slightly negative. As a
consequence of the improvement in aluminum prices, operating profit increased
sharply in FY89, to about US$32 million. In addition, the Government convert-
ed CAP's outstanding levy obligation (in the amount of US$17.6 million) to
equity, to provide the company with an adequate capital base. As a conse-
quence, CAP's cash position, current ratio, and capitalization at the end of
FY89 were strong.
F_ture Financial Performace
7.3      It is an indication of the plant's basic efficiency that it was able
to generate substantial operating surpluses during 1986 and the beginning of
1987, when aluminum prices were depressed. This situation also reflected the
favorable terms of the 1985 agreement, which permitted CAP to use the plant
without lease payments or capital charges. CAP's financial performance was
quite strong in 1988 and 1989 as well, reflecting mainly high international
prices and demand. During the next five years, however, CAP's financial posi-
tion will need to be carefully managed, if the company is to to meet financing



- 22 -
requirements for its share of the investment program. The next two fiscal
years are particularly critical, since investment expenditures will be higher
than normal, reflecting the mud lake investments and the plant upgrading
program, while alumina prices are projected to be lower than those sustained
in FY89.
7.4      The projected income statement, balance sheet, and sources and uses
of funds are presented in Annexes 30-12; the assumptions on which the projec-
tions are based are listed in Annez 10. Based on projected IBED prices for
aluminum, CAP should continue to generate substantial operating surpluses,
permitting sufficient debt service coverage and adequate generation of after-
tax earnings (see Table 6 below). However, since fluctuations below projected
price levels are possible, it will be important for CAP to maintain a conserv-
ative capital structure and a strong cash position. In this regard, agreement
was reached at negotiations that CAP's debt-equity ratio would be no higher
than 65:35 during the period between March 31, 1989 and March 31, 1990, and no
higher than 60:40 during the period after March 31, 1990. Agreement was also
reached that CAP would maintain a quick ratio, defined as current assets
(excluding inventories), divided by current liabilities, in excess of 1. CAP
is currently well below these ceilings, and is expected to have no difficulty
in remaining so during the project period.
Table 6: CAP - KEY PINANCIAL INDICATORS
FYs
Indicator                       1989      1990/92   1993/95
Debt/Capitalization                16.1?      11.3?       12.2?
Op. Profit/Net Fixed Assets       174.2?      44.72       39.9Z
Net IncomelNet Fixed Assets        84.5?      17.1?       17.2?
Op. Profit/Sales                   42.8?      28.4?       33.9?
Net Income/Sales                   20.82      10.52       14.5Z
Op. Profit/Debt Service           430.02     301.5?      879.8?
Note:  Operating profit excludes levy and royalties.  High
return in net assets in FY89 reflects price peak. It
is assumed that all after-tax income is retained.
Benefits and Justification
7.5      The project's major economic benefit would be continued operation of
the Clarendon Alumina plant. During the next five years, the plant will
generate an estimated annual average of US$53 million in net foreign exchange,
including about US$28 million in Government revenues (Table 7). The plant
also provides direct employment for about 900 people. In addition, the new
ownership arrangement permits production at capacity, thus increasing sales
volume and reducing unit production costs. The project also supports a levy



- 23 -
policy which would generally encourage expanded production in the sector and
improve Jamaica's competitive position in the industry, as well as supporting
strengthened monitoring of the plant's environmental effects. The estimated
financial rate of return for the project to the Government, as the owner of
the joint venture partner, is 54Z; the economic rate of return (ERR) is the
same. No adjustments were needed to calculate the ERR for the following main
reasons: (i) there are no taxes on intermediate and investment goods imported
by alumina companies; (ii) fuel is imported directly by Jamalco and not
affected by domestic pricings and (iii) the U.S. dollar/Jamaican dollar
exchange rate is assumed to be at equilibrium.
Table 7: JAWALCO' S PiOlJCTUD CONTRIIUTION TO TME ECONOMY
(USS Millions)
Est.      -----------Projected-------------
FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94
Net Foreign Exchange       82.6    50.1    43.5    45.8    51.4    72.9
Wages and Salaries        13.7    14.2    15.1    16.0    16.9    17.5
After-Tax Profit (CAP)   24.8      9.0      6.1     6.0     7.3    14.0
Government Revenues       44.1    26.9    22.3    23.7    27.2    41.1
7.6      Financial Analysis.   The financial analysis of the project was
undertaken from the point of view of the Government as Borrower. The
without-project* scenario assumes no investment is made in the plant, and
consequently no generation of tax revenues or profits occurs after FY90, when
failure to invest would sharply curtail production. Consequently, the two
main benefits to the Government include CAP's aftertax profit and CAP and
ALCOA tax payments after FY90. The main cost is CAP's share of the plant's
investment program beginning in PY88, including the portion which constitutes
debt service to Alcoa. This analysis yields an FRR of about 54Z, reflecting
the basic profitability of the plant.
7.7      For purposes of the analysis, sales were calculated based on existing
marketing arrangements and projected IBRD aluminum prices (para. 7.1); operat-
ing costs incorporate projected IBRD prices for petroleum. The rate of return
was calculated over a 17-year project life. The replacement cost of project
investments with economic lives shorter than 17 years was included in the
calculation. Projections were made in U.S. dollars: it is assumed that
changes in relative U.S./Jamaica inflation will be compensated for by
adjustments in the exchange rate.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.8      The sensitivity analysis calculates switching values for increases in
fuel prices and capital costs, and for decreases in aluminum prices and
production levels. It also analyzes the impact of lags of one and two years
in project benefits. The results are summarized in Annex 13. Hainly because



- 24 -
of the plant's fuel efficiency, the project is resilient with regard to fuel
prices, with a tripling of fuel prices required to reduce the FRR to 10X.
Capital costs would need to increase by 3.4 times for the same result. The
project is more sensitive on the revenue side. A reduction of 322 in project-
ed prices would reduce the FRR to 102. The project is less sensitive to
changes in production, with a drop of 50X required to reduce the PRR to 10?.
The project is resilient with regard to lags in benefits; lags of one and two
years reduce the PRR to 392 and 30S, respectively.
Proiect Risks
7.9      The principal risks facing the project aret  (a) adverse price devel-
opments for aluminum and/or petroleum; and (b) possible lack of sustained
Government counitment to appropriate sector policies and to good management of
the joint venture. With regard to aluminum prices, the plant's efficiency is
such that, as long as it continues to be well-managed, the output should have
a place in almost any market situation. Even if petroleum prices doubled, the
plant's energy efficiency would enable it to maintain its position as one of
the lowest cost petroleum-based alumina operations, although this situation
would provide a greater advantage to coal-based capacity in Australia. Given
these operating characteristics, the only market situation which JAMALCO might
not be able to survive would be one in which the entire industry was at risk,
such as the advent of a lower-cost substitute for aluminum. With regard to
sector policy, recent adoption of a taxation policy consistent with sector
profitability, the continuation of Alcoa management in the plant, and the
recruitment of qualified staff for CAP suggest that this does not constitute a
major risk.
8. S2UIAY OP CONDITIONS AND AGORESNTS REACEED
8.1      The following actions are conditions for loan effectivenesst
a)       Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
CAP (para. 4.4);
b)       The CAP Board would adopt an Operating Manual setting out lines of
authority and job descriptions for key management posts acceptable to
the Bank (para. 2.4);
c)       Execution of an Implementation Agreement satisfactory to the Bank by
CAP, Alcoa, JBM, and GOJ (para. 5.1);
d)       The Government would obtain final approval from EEC for proposed
SYSMIN financing or equivalent financing from other sources
(para. 4.3); and
e)       CAP would provide the Bank an analysis of data indicating an S02
level in the vicinity of the plant satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.13).



- 25 -
8.2      CAP would furnish to the Bank for approval project expenditures to be
financed by the Bank by December 31 each year as a condition of disbursements
for that year (para. 5.2).
8.3      The following agreements were reached at negotiation.s
a)       The Government would maintain management arrangements at CAP satis-
factory to the Bank (para. 2.4);
b)       CAP mould maintain its debt:equity ratio no higher than 65:35 between
March 31, 1989 and March 31, 19903 and 60:40 after March 31, 1990
(para. 7.4);
c)       CAP would maintain a quick ratio of at least I (para. 7.4);
d)       CAP would prepare quarterly reports on the progress of the project,
and submit them to the Bank within two months of the end of each
quarter (para. 5.2);
e)       CAP would assure that independent audits by auditors satisfactory to
the Bank would be carried out annually and submitted to the Bank
within four months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 5.3);
f)       CAP would carry out the environmental action plan, including the
Bowens resettlement program, as set out in the letter dated April 13,
1989 (para. 3.10, 3.12);
h)       CAP wouid prepare a Project Completion Report, to be sent to the Bank
within six months after the project completion date (para. 5.2).
8.4      A special event of default is included, providing for the right to
suspend disbursements under the proposed loan in the event that a substantial
change is made in the Government's sector policy as set out in its document
dated March 3, 1989, in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the
economic viability of the project (para. 1.20).
8.5      A special condition of disbursement is included, requiring that
expenditures to be financed under the project should be part of those
investments approved annually for financing by the Bank (para. 5.2).
8.6      With the above assurances, the proposed project would constitute a
suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$15.0 million to the Government of
Jamaica. The loan would have a term of 17 years, with a grace period of 5
years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
26-APR-89



- 27 -
Page 1 of 1
JAMIAICA
CLA_RUO  AUJM PRODUCTION PRECT
8AUXITE/Alh/A EXPORTS, 19- 19
(METRIC TONS)
Bauxlte Exported
Year                 Kaiser     ReynolId         SATCO        TOTAL
1960              8,560,a42    2,6ee,460                   6,669,798
1061              8,167,516    2,186,572                   6,204,e0
1902              1,815,481      592,271     1,625,607     4,088,200
1088              1,427,864      267,015     1,314,865     3,a1s,724
1084              1,865,088     l,81,690     1,672,82      4,669,a08
19s6              1,580,6s                     786,65      2,825,8s8
1906              2,11,561                     920,714     2,038,276
1907              2,700,266                    012,186     8,711,986
1988              2,434,620                  1,050,812     3,404,441
Alumin Exported
Year               Jamaican       Alpart   Jamlco/CAP         TOTAL
19U               1,08s,400      in,7,7        407,088     2,as5,e02
1981              1,087,787    1,17,718        404,855     2,649,866
1982               7?4,717       768,875       24,020      1,767,012
1093                067,097      639,882       419,020     1,007,000
1984                887,761      401,010       854,101     1,712,872
1985                851,077      522,968       248,176     1,622,221
1986                889,631                    696,52      1,586,168
1987                844,422                    727,654     1,672,076
1906                864,792                    710,708     1,575,510
Source: Jamaca Bauxite Institute



- 29 -
Page 1 of S
TIM BAMUITEIALM1IN SECTOR
The AliniiA lndustry
1.       Aluminum is made in four production stages*  bauxite mining, refining
to produce alumina, smelting of alumina to obtain primary aluminum, and
semifabricat$on (see chart below). The first three stages of the production
chain are natural resource-based (bauxite and low cost electric power), and
are global industries. Semi-fabrication and the secondary aluminum industry
are regionally organized to serve local markets.
THE ALIMM= MRODUCTION PROCESS
NATURAL RESOURCE INPUTS
POWER              BAIUXITE
BAUXITE                Large scale open-cast mining
,     I  1         4-7 tons of bauxite refined by
ALUNINA               digestion with caustic soda to
produce 2 tons of alumina
Electrolytic smelting of 2 tons
of alumina to produce 1 ton of
metal
SECONDARY      SEMIS                  Rolling, extrusion, casting, and
drawing operations to produce
a range of products
END-USERS
(FABRICATORS)
2.       The primary raw material is bauxite, a rock consisting principally of
aluminum hydroxide, iron oxide, silica, and minor amounts of other materials
The quality of bauxite is determined by the type of aluminum hydroxide
present--monohydrate or trihydrate--and the quantity of impurities. The
trihydrate-type requires lower temperatures and pressures, and is consequently



- so -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of S
less costly to use than the monohydrate types. The most troublesome
impurities are reactive silica and iron oxides; many cthervise acceptable
bauxites are uneconomic because relatively high amounts of these materials are
present. Each alumina refinery is designed to treat a specific type of
bauxite within a certain acceptable impurity rangeg consequently, shifts in
sources of bauxite supplies may entail considerable cost penalties. World
bauxite reserves are ample, estimated at the equivalent of about 130 years
consumption. Seven countries account for about 80S of world reservess
Australia, Brazil, Guinea, Guyana, India, Indonesia, and Jamaica.
3.       Production Costs.  The industry is the most capital-intensive of the
metals industries, due particularly to the refining and smelting processes.
Capital requirements have increased significantly in recent years, due both to
increased capital costs and the trend toward larger plants. Capital costs per
ton of installed capacity for new projects in 1987 were estimated as followss
US$50-$l00 for bauxite mines; USO8OO-$1200 for alumina refineries; and
US$3500-$5000 for aluminum smelters, in total, some US$5500-8000 per ton of
integrated capacity. Relatively long lead times, with concomitant
uncertainty, are associated with new investments in alumina and smelting
capacity.
4.       Cash operating costs for aluminum depend mainly on alumina prices and
energy costs; for this reason, smelters are most often constructed close to an
economic power source.  Cash operating costs for alumina vary widely
(US$65/ton to US$175/ton in 1987), with bauxite mining costs, fuel, and labor
the major cost components.  The cost of fuel and the energy efficiency of the
plant are major factors in cost variance; plants utilizing low-cost coal
(Alcoa of Australia) enjoy a cost advantage over oil-fired plants during
periods of high petroleum prices. The efficiency of oil-fired plants also
varies widely, dJepending on when they were constructed, from over 3 bbl/ton to
less than 1.5 bbl/ton of alumina. The cost of bauxite mining is another
important sc rce of cost variance; costs range between US$15-$80 per ton of
alumina, with a major factor in the variance arising from bauxite production
levies imposed in certain countries. Transportation costs are a third major
cost factor, with higher costs for those alumina plants located further from
the bauxite source.
5.       Industry Trends.  The industry has traditionally been dominated by
six globally- and vertically-integrated companies (Alcoa, Alcan, Kaiser,
Reynolds, Pechiney, and Alusuisse). After a rapid growth in demand in the
19509 and 1960s (approximately 92 annually), it began to slow in the 197ns
(averaging 2.72 annually between 1970 and 1984), reflecting international
recession in the 1970s, maturation of certain markets, and competition from
alternative materials. At the same time, rising energy and capital costs, the
availability of large reserves of low-cost bauxite in Guinea, Brazil, and
Australia, and increased taxation on the part of a number of bauxite-producing
countries, including Jamaica, resulted in radical shifts in competitive
advantage between countries, and set the stage for major structural changes in
the industry in the late 19709 and early 1980s. These changes included the
permanent closure of higher-cost alumina and aluminum production capacity,
mainly by the six majors and particularly in the United States and Japan; the
expanded role of Australia in all phases of production; and the emergence of
single-stage Government-financed producers (particularly of aluminum) in



- 31 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
Africa, the Middle East, and Latin America. One major consequence of these
developments was reduced concentration of the industry, manifested in the
decreasing market share of the six majors, which dropped from 781 to 452 for
bauxite, 84Z to 622 for alumina, and 602 to 432 for aluminum between 1969 and
1983.
6.       The declining concentration has been reflected in the development of
intermediate markets for alumina and metal. The non-integrated alumina market
currently accounts for 20-25t of alumina sales. It is used by the major
producers for output in excess of internal requirements, and is characterized
by a limited number of competitors. Its emergence has led to a more active
role for traders, in part because of their ability to arrange barter and
counter trade deals in a situation of oversupply. Alcoa of Australia (51?
owned by Alcoa), with alumina capacity of 4.5 million tons, is the dominant
supplier in this market by virtue of its low costs and, in part, the closure
of Japanese smelting capacity, which would have served as a market for some of
the company's production.
7.       One consequence of reduced concentration has been a change in
traditional pricing practices. Unlike most metals which are traded in
commodity markets, aluminum in the past has been traded at prices established
by major producers. Prices were changed relatively infrequently, creating a
stable market environment. The eatry of single-stage producers in the late
1970s, however, provided sufficient volume to permit the introduction of
aluminum ingot trading in 1979 in the London Metal Exchange (LME), and in
1984, in the Commodities Exchange (COMEX). This has resulted in the
establishment of an alternative reference price, which nas gradually replaced
the traditional producer-pricing system. This development has affected
alumina pricing as well: although alumnla is not traded on cozmodity
exchanges, it is now usually sold under medium- or long-term framework
contracts with prices linked to free market metal prices.



- 33 -
ANM=EX 3
Page 1 of 4
SENT BY:MIN.OF MININO & E;RGY, 4- 4- "    :I M ;0899228                242 5   40 a. 2
Mum"o& PGL=
The Government's bauxite/alumsni policy has evolved from our
ezperiences with the industry over the peat forty-ons years. It Is embodied
In five Acts, which togther forn th  leglslative framework for the Industry,
as vell as in contractual arrangments wlth individual bauxite producing
companie. The basic objective of sector policy has been to maxtiite the
long-term contribution of the setor to the Jamaicen economy. The major
elemeat of poliey include: (1) tawatlon; (2) ownership; (3) land use; and
(4) environwat
tiM
from the perlod 1946-1973, Jamica's bauxite/alumina industry
ezpertencd rapid growth. In reflection of the rapid post4_ r expansion of
alumtaium production. Despite this performaoe. the value-added by the
Industry to the Jmican economy was mlnimal, consisting of _eloyomnt
(sector employment peaked at about 10,000 pople tn the 1970.) and a low
levl of taxation revenue;, reaching only about US$2.30 per ton of bmzite
produced In 1973. Revenues derived from aumiUn producoe were particuloely
low. Despite sustained profitability for the aluminiu  idustry as a othole.
all but one of them paid no Income tax at all. The sajor problm wmm that
profits on alumina processing In Jmaica were ulnimsted through the use of
transfer priein.
It was against this backgroud that the production levy was
lintrotuced tn 1974. The production levy was bsed on the total amount of
bauxite mineds thus avoiding the probles of determining the export price.
It MM stNuCtUd so aa tO Increas  reoveus to the CGovOet while maintaining
bauxite ucn   costs in Jamica compotitive with other aupplier.  its
WpoItion reslted in a sarp  Increase In taatloa revenues, which rose by
a factor of 6 between 1973 and 1974. Subseoqutly, in respose to various
concorn  raised by the bawxio  compne"  ad ipact on J_amaica  world mrket
Are, it ws varlowly modified by way of rebates, lowering the actul
b"ic porcentage, and the itroduction of incentives in 1979 nd 1984.
Zn the lAte 1970s ead erly 19J0., the alumnum industry went
thrOgb e pawl" of depressd prices and decreased demnd. These problem
were reflected in Jamac where bauxite production steadily declid. They
ware due to a complex group of reaons, includinot (a) intetuational
economie recession; (b) :he decline of the U.S. as an aldumnum sad
espetAly an alumin  producer relative to countries (lie Australia) with
cheaper energy; (c) take-or-pay contracts which introduced rigidity ti
sourcing of bauxite production; (d) lower world economic growth; and
(e) to some extent, the imact of tho levy as the  conomic circ_maencee of
the Industry changed. In order to maintatn Jamelca0e competitive position
in the pace of these chepgee In the international eoniroement, the
GOvernoent of Jamaa ha now modiftled It  taxation policy by introducing
a profitabillty-orIentcd  Lev      tasation syst   with th  followlan
major elements:



- 34 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
SENT BY:MZN.CP MINING & SNMY: 4- 4-O    1:59PM 2            g2G2e354   V42 -u
1. A significantly reduced levy (indexed as before to the average
realised price for primary *luminium by the four sajor North
American produce".). This lvy is a deductible itas for
determinlag chargeable lrcome.
2.   An Incoeo  tax aystem based on transpareat prices for alumina.
(In the case of Alcoa, the average of Alcoa of Australia, Alcoa
of Aaerica (SO  vn4Xhe for these two) and Norwegian l ported
prlces f.o.b.;  ad -t>  Alcan, thelr GAMS price (500) and the
Norwegian f.o.b. prlco 50).
In the coe of baulte, a price which bea  some crolationship
to the markit price for the prloclpal exported bauxites out of
Gulnea, Ircsil and Australia.
3.   Co&ts determined on the base  we have come to understand via our
ivolvemnts in the JAMALCO and JAMALCAM joint ventures and the
lea"ing of the Alcoc plant by CAP.
4. A comeitment by the companles to operate as nearly as say be
practicablo to full capacity. in the event they are not ablo to
do so, the production miust be offerod to Goverment for a
ressonable period of tine at a defined cost. Only In the event
Government Is unable to find a mrket would production be cut.
5.   The regime will be roviewed after five years.
One of the major problems the Governmet oexprieAced tn arriving
at a sound taxation policy for the Industry was lack of knowledge concerning
Its coat and profitability structure. In order to addres this problem as
well as to bave greter lnfluence in regard to the utilisation of the
country's bauxite recources, and also co retain some of the profits from
minng and processIng operatlons, the Govermant entered Into neSotiatlons
In 1974 to acquire equty participation in the Industry.
to the Cm.^s of the badmito operatioas   51a   s    re ws acquired, but
this  m    itY" investomet was restricted, In that the Executive Comittees
which gsorved the operations of thce partnerships had equal represeatation
from company and Sovermut. and the partnership aloed the bauxteo for teh
umiortty partner - I.e., the company. In the event the majority partner
(Government) wanted somo bauxito for its ova us, it had in practice to
purchase If from the minority partn   on an a* r-longth basis.  Tho
Govrnement'  benefits from these arrangemeto were:  (a) more knowledge of
the operations lcluding useful details of costs of production; and (b)
guaranteed returns on Its inestments.
In the eas  of the alumin  operations, the value of the 51S of
the respective ming operations (Alcan and Alcoa) wore pro-rated over the
enatre mining, reflnry, port and ancillZry oprations and resulted In 7Z
In tho AlcM-GWOJ joint venture JMU63. an 62 In Alcoa-GOJ joint venture
JAUNAM. In return, Government had two msebers of the respective seven-member



- 35 -
A x 3
Page 3 of 4
tUscutive Cornitess .4a vat s titled to its respective sbaes (72 Uand 62)
of the production of alIZA. It met its #hate of oporating and capital
costs on a btesisee tats la eecb of these Joist ventures.
Kost recently, the GoYernot ;urcbaved an  ditional 441 share
of the JArALCO plJat. The 4voutC  whch 1ed to MLi development be<ga vith
Alcoa's clomra of the plant in 1"5 sad the  o  'vemut's docisaia to
rtepea the pI*t on Its aim babalf that sme year  Vass en uptugn In the
alualolvu market and the strong porformce of the plat rs*4t*d In
Alcoa's declalos to reo"n the plant, It s«eteed into negotiations vith the
Gow ernes  toards a 50s50 Joist veutuze. The cosuaetiou of the
ew joint vtnture ageaeut mwm boafti41l to both the C4oq*uant ed Alcoa
for tte followisn  r"seos  (1) It ensured the pleat wold operate at
macmm prodcetiot. ssbject to certsin specifIcally defixed cuuitiooe.
such as fe*   =je, providing stable revenues to the Gowvernaet and
gsi   Udt p:bductios costs; (2) the u.v te  gtetss is an iutstgra
pat of the asrsewnt, providing Alcoa a sore floxtble teatloo situatian;
(3) coutcsuetion of Alcoa managmw t of the planit and asociAtion witb
Alcoa's technolog; and (4) a favourable price and papeot airsngenat to
the  m_erumt fow Its incusuuci equity abwae.
At the present tiw, the  overrnst has mcc_1lihed its object!ves
in regard to oroership pattelpation In the sector and. has U. plow to
acquire furtert equity is be.xitsielmii     co.autes. Tor exle1, deospte
the 1945 closurs of &Ipatt, beu"   of out coltuents la other facAlitiss,
the co.pleattAd strueture of the partnershp, ad the less attractive
econoics of the plet, w  have not contnuplated a Govement participatloa
in its reopenngs, altboug  we boee be*s doing a11 that Ls reasonably
possible to faclitstt  fts rectivation by prive  sector ca.poonts. Alpart
bea bee  reopened oo the beets of a uv portoershbip :owprisUW  Lir
Jaic Corpotation 651 ad lydro AluilUtut Jamaca a,*. Sbould eiusctanc
arti  where acgytettiou of additiooal quity appas In the coUtryf* best
Satrest, my scb hcqsietiag woUl be subJect to ocounaft critoria.
3i_     l   W  Equit
Is prlwtcly, notuithatanudlg say diffieltls In th-t  regard,
tho govemant ws  be willn  to ecosder uoellg portions of CW  *qaty
to private  stat intansto in J_mca. lkder th1  tose of tha joint
veture agemats hovr, such  .I  to prohibited durin  the teo three
years, WA peeqeantly wold teure the conacueuce of Alcoa. At the
nd oi the  Seo.-pee perod the adtlability of such a sae win ho
Lad owad
Te poUcy to to eang  the banxito lande so that tey are
modactively wed in A controlled wq  to enable ready aveleability shea
Uscass  of the severe copetician for baits lands bemsn
mining agrcutuzse  nd reel scats* devoleopsetso. a mot rtiOout  s m toring
pxopM  vSL be suotad to ense that te Lands at oPtIel1y autilised.



- 36 -
AMEX 3
Page 4 of 4
This will entail, among other things, regular reviews of the coupanies'
mining rate v1s-a-vja reserve. retalned for them. (An example of the dilemma
posed by competing needs was a recent Interest by a Canadian outfit for
beuaite lnds to grow the fsamus Jamaican citrus frult "'jrtanique" for
oxport to Canada. For viability, a minimum tenure on the leads of 20 years
ws" required bttthis was not possible because the lnds soush: after were
resorved for the companies' use in lees than 20 years.)
It is an elemeat of policy to *n ure tnat adverse environmental
effects of bauxite 0i,ing, reftniag end sblpping operationg grg mInimised.
Consequentlys tho Jamlca Bauxite Instituto (to association with other
relevant Govaruaemt agencies) will have primary responsibilitv in ancurixg
that the companies adhere to practlecs which enhance an acceptably clean
*aVirounft. This Will itvolve, later ai*A, rigorous mootorisg of:
(a) the underground water and surface water; (b) tho atmospbere for
particulates and corrosive ga8s; (c) che condition of house especially
In regard to roof corrosion. Ziost mportantly, the teuponeibilities will
involve *enuring that the necessary action is taken to redress any comunity
damags that could justifable be attributed to the mining operations. A
fuller statemnt of the eviroauatel action program ha  boen provided
separately.
The above represents the Mai  el_te of policy. There are,
of course, others such as the mwzima  uSJ  of Jamlicau  goods uad sorvices
where possib&s.  Also, the organisatlonal frawork to effectively imlemt
our policy will be kept constantly under review.
NnttZr oT          and  ,.r
*wm U_
- T~d



- 37 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 1
OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE- -JAMALCO
Aluminum Company                          Gcvernment of Jamaica
of Americal
(ALCOA)                       Ministry of Mines
I loos                          11002                  1002
Alcoa Minerals               Clarendon Alumina          Jamaica Bauxite
of Jamaica                 Production Limited         Mining Limited
(Alcoa)                         (CAP)                    IJBM)
SO0    44Z   621
JAMALCO - JV
Operating Association
T The 62 owned by JBM will be transferred to CAP in 1989.
ORGANISATIOMAL STRUCTURE--JAMALCO
Consists of eight (8) members, four (4) appointed
Executive               by CAP and four (4) appointed by Alcoa
Comuittee
Consists of four (4) members, two (2)
Operations        appointed by CAP and two (2) appointed
Subcommittee      by Alcoa
Manager of the
Jamalco Association   Executive Committee has appointed Alcoa as the
Manager
Operations



- 39 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
CLARINDON ALUMINA PRODUCTION LIMITgD
g&i~     te TWA 6111s15TPV OF WO*SNG. 0I11RGY AND TOUR"
C eSS cS'~v,. 35reel4w 1111. KC.4    . p     W t   14:92 *n37*?134
cto The Jaeaca lUaualtt  lustitate. lope CGrdeonJ gingetor 6
April 13, 1999
Kr. fbahd uesat.
lIce president - Latin masrica Diviston.
The Vorld Bank.
lol1 3 Street, E.g..
Vasblgton, D.C. 20433.
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. htaei,
Tb4s letter 51&Wrixso the Govetoet' s euviromental policy iu respect
to the ba /altesit sector and In pyrticuler with regard to the
opetrtioM of the J.TLCO pleAt.
It Is an *lemot of oetoral policy to ensure that  dvYrese euv.roisetal
effects of bauite mining. refining and shipplng operations are sainized.
Consequently, tbh Jamaic  Sauzitt  Institute (lik association with other
Cievant Go"vent agelcies) will ae prSary responsibility to
siurtag that the comnoe adhore to practices which enhasce aZ
acceptatly lean aavwtroient. This vill involve rigorous mountoruong of
(a) tho undergrotud water uad surfoce water; (b) the atmospeore for
part'-l %utes and corrosive pgees (e) the condition of houses especilly
tu rogrd to root corrosion. most inprtoltly, the r espousiblities will
Involve ensuring that the necossry acts** to taken to redress say
comuity dnag o that couLd justifiably be attributed to the mtning
operatinon.
Witb respect to the JAKALCO oporations, the euv toionthl control and
ccWanity action programe coninte of the following avasuro;e
he10"aizen Of 50So rt lauted to gaytretI tCtrol
? AMUCO Joint venture to tinludisg to its Ftnaclal Tears 1989-91
momt prora the following iteas (totally rougWy US$3.8 mLlUlon):
*echaue of a water truck for dust control.
2. turebaJc of equipoont to greatly reduce or eliminato st4pbar diouido
3. Poplacemooo  of electrostatic dust precipitators for imgowed control
of lumiusa dust.
Ptianctag from the World ank io expected for the latter two itesJ to
the context of the proposed Claredon ALMSse Production (Ca) Project.
I~   ols C. eomw -ww endw.CA.p 6". Wl'Wa C..Or.AtW iift C.. W Alv CA Cffta .C.
0151     3?cn@. 4e o,e C.O   a.t  .uef. .O........... N Oe*v W tIWm.. C..... 0'.atz LUog 5P{ .D . £tA'. .0. C.I.L..... acIi



- 40 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
Mr. Sbabld 1us1                                                                             |
Page Two
April 13, 1989
Ut_xms UOito$ug of Air Qs&lty a
Iqr'c, a   hum  Water
JAUALCO bas historicully udOtudakeu regular touitoring of air quality as
vwel *o surface and ground vacer iz area. whicb couldbe affected by
mIing or pldnt operations. aod wlll continue to do so. Sulphur dloalde
moitoring has been carried out using sulphur diouide tablets and
aulys"  made monthly. The average for the year 19U8. for ilustace,
was 0.1024 P   (parts p.:r milion). This methodology will be kept under
revleov an  improvements Introduced as necessary. As a futtber m"sure
of air quality, ye have purchased the so-called Alc   C3S.t t chiRque
whreby cotal -couple. or metal/plastic coaples, for exAule, alutioiiN
and copper 7 aluminium and iron; zinc and Iron (and any of the motal. vibt
plUtle) are used to detrainne the extent and possible sources of
corrosion. The World leak vas app* sed of tche technology which ve
iucorporated iu the report from Roger J. latetone dated August 7. 1987.
_af >Ucp mat  _PM         ia VtiSdty of
Ca,dm U_ 
The Goverasnat of Jmaica end JAMCO boav  received a number of ceplaints
about accolerated corodson of zinc roofsin the vicliity of the Clareudon
alum1a plut. In tbis regard, JAWACO inteuds to proceed with a
programs of roof replaemet In the vicnity of tbo i'Zat, altbough it
tas not been deowatratad that the roof corroasou to celJ"sd by plout
operation. JAIALCO lutes" to model its roof replacement policy on
that adopted by JANLC. A thorogb srudy uodertake  by JAPALCAS io
the radius of Its plants found evidence of accoleated cnodocot witbin
a 3 k.lo.eter radius. JAKALCAK accordingly replaced zlnc vith
almoatim roofs within that area. JAMALCO contracted with Aca JAmcc
Company to carry out meauremts to dtottcute tho dolimitation of
plat omiessons to the caee  of the Clarendon A3uiisn Works. JAXALCO
bag also contracted a conultig fli  to evaluate tho  nature and eaten
of the corrosion, to make recomeudatIons as to tho extent of tie
repairs sd to prepare a programs to distributo materials (olumiolum
hbeets. fetoners and capping) for re-reofing or repair. The program
to ett&uetly underway and  to epected to be eomleted withtn L2-15 months.
ueah and kve2.pt fr the fourth A   Ldke
at Claemim UAina gm
The lonten plant objoctive calls for reviewIng the possibility of
future mud disposl of the dry-stacking type, 2n which donified mud to
deposited In layers d allowed to dry naturally before addittonal
lAyers are deposoted. This technologY Peraits e"Y reol_tiSou of the
lad "ad for disposl.  Jamaican red mudo. ho,ver. we mcopiged
as the moot difficult io the Industry to devat*r; therefore. speciel
systems need to be developed to thicken. pomp, and dry by solar



- 41 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3of 3
Mr. Shadid lu*aln
?age Three
4ril 13, 1989
evaporatLon. Additi:-al vork a.ecs tc ba de=e 1. *vaLusti;: t:e ego:a=ic
and technicel feaeibllty ef usig ttt' d:y-stacklta tachaolcgy. :czpareti
to cozwoutiocal cud lake constructiou of bybrid soluttows. Cousequotty,
rosearch and devolopnent work is coanecti- vitbhthedry-otacking opti,:
bhve bee: isclude in the 1959-91 invset:ent prcgr:ae.
lala  NsetSW  with td C_mlty sd the ursg
au Mrromntal   A Otber Cooeres
JAMLCO viii hold a regular series of mettunge vitb comm.ittee to dslcuss
and ansr questions ou euvirom#atal and otber matters of pabitc interest.
to isfors the coeuity oud reduce tensions i5t*en :*.e company and che
comgity.  In tbis cotuint. JAMLCC has also appointed * full tris  pub4ic
relations officer.
'mall coomAnity of about 200 families located on the prop:ased
site .z ;;. fourth sud disposal cystes.  Tbe land occupied by the town
of  .wius wv-I be nodedd for cud labs coustrution in 199t. Site prap.:2-
tiom for the relocation began in Jausary 1989. Tbe £uropeu Ecoveomsi
Commaity (tbrougb its S1SKlP fund) vill fina2ce the relocation prcgraina
to Its eanrety. The co&Ani:y. Including bozez, echools, eburchos,
ceoeteries and livestock, will be recoastructured and/or mored to ab:-t
three (3) wlles avy frou the ezteting location. lanes vill be rep'_--.
vith us, hoCse of eqtualorbetter quality, and f armes pr;1ided vi:t
equtvalout sited plote of ftrwland. Inirastructure vil be greatly
Saproved; the relocated coiauulty will bave greatly Improved vatsr.
electricity and traswportation infrastructure. No lose of employment
vlll be caused by the relocation. A esumary of the rel -at'o- progmes,
infludidg prelminary design of TeplacMsOUt hMes. ti  a.acnted.  At the
presout dato, detailed design of buAiding. aud infrastructure to. rd*.vay.
CO.lotiou of the relocation progrese is targetted for January 14.
Total cost la estlutsd at Ut$9 zillion.
You" sltugs:ly,
too B.Davis
Jamaca, lesitt Institute and
Clarendon Alumiso Production Ltd.
CEDt*



-ErA D   wr as n IS 61_
ur                       iewo                      1w                       nmrFa
Leal Foralp   Toetl   L1cm$ Fioreli    Tote    Loca  forewi    Totl                 LOCAL   01   IUTML
Mmaing
Daselep Par. SA;,vIoo               14s      m2      m                          0                                        146     3W       810
astern o-.  0....                                      o            ga.m    a,m5                                           o    IOIIO  s.ouo
Eatoem Om1 Lauders                                     0              440     440                                          0     440      440
meplem .bwTaryuck                           iso      ino                        S                                         a      to       iSo
Constrcion Stoag Area                so      is       75                        0                                         so      is       is
Unglurn sowa I                                                      I,0   1,100                                            0   1,30W   1.100
CAmtA.bt NMIt PAd"                  311      864     973      an      au1     919      is0     140      400              U17   I,3m    3.1
Land PuFe.                          400              400                             1.000            1.000            1.400       0   1.400
bpolacmt %iclem                              140     10                so      s0              100      100               0      8oo      so
Spar. partom                                Mc0  1,100               1M0    1,100            1I00   1.s00                 0   3,700   3.700
0dm. siates expenditare.            100      770     970     80       m     1,180      Soo     600   1,100               00   2,410   11.31W
Wi*|"                  ~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~                                                            ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   -    _ -  i-  -  -   -   _   _   _-
Subto1tal  Wining                 1,167   S.011           0        640   71                  ,        .900            815   41;0  Is,197
Caustic cloaning aide. 46                     1      to6
ldma0mw                                       6s0    6s
Ismite gndolam replacemt C7)                $10      310
Spreu prom. im 1a6                                   196              1IU     100                         0               0      496      496
Lauding apuet for Amct, Polo"                600     80                         0                        0                0      30      60
uI r o - . gI Control equipmnt:                                                                          0                0        0       0
otew       for dus" Control                          0              10       no0                        0                0     180      go
UStra,.. tI,X 0                                                    1CO     3W                          0                0     80 S   J
POeerpitm *   go     (dCet)                             #08 0    180SD                                  0               0      180 1O    0
Slow OFf ratio conetrol                              a               70      70                         0                0      70       70
mlnon" sulphur diomide emissions                     0            1,000   10000                         0               a   1.000  1,000
Emaplace octrostatic pr.olpitttors                   0            1.700   1,700                         0               0   Rem0   1.700
Tim and atbumdmmc ngetm                      11      110                        0                         0               0      110      11
lirdthickemereudies cupwtt               810     810                        0                         0                0     310      n10
-;fmw  wells for residue law                 Soo     3W                         0                        0                0      am       Soo
.Sta       semrat1                                     0             I000   1.30                         0                0   1.3W    1."O
oi.elrstmts  Coe utelr                                 0              100     100                                         0      1on   U 0
#Implece loudern. bldg. 18                             0              MO      4MO                                         a     440      440
cUle "ad LaIs                    2,1o    1.18    4,800                                                                2.150   2.180   48100
Spars par"s                                1,100   .2.00            1.S800    so0            21.40    1.400               0   6.90    1,90
P     raprtion tHad I.t.t 14                3000    0o    60          Soo   1.3W0              800     80               Gm0   1.00  12.100
Etocats bu. District (EE)         2.3W9   2.3W    4.6100   1.00       MO0  4.00W       3W3                             4.3W0   4sS3W    *,O
Plmnt OubotAl.nckituganladWrmle;                       0                      * 0                        0                0        0       0
Clarification General                                0            1.3W    1.3W             2.000   2.000                0   4.000   A AM
900     gm               no      So                         0                0   1.10   s1.3
Wuiade O'91'.                            1.00   2.3e l              700     700                        0                0    .W    Sena
I_krbumise                              1.100  1I10              6.3W    6,100                        0                0     ,7O.400   7,400
PRwipitEti       c        l                          0            2.7t    8.3W             4.CW    4000                0   7.3W0   7.00
oulor                           SW60    3W            213W    1.000             8,800   8,3w                  0   6.100   6.100
I CGM       _ % _ablel                   I aso    Il                G        so                         o                o     ao Rm 
i0er "1  o          | l                               OOOO                                                                      Ao      #
|, ecnat Vemca                           108    i                   60       640             86         O6               0   a.in       290
, Ul-ic g capitAl             on    1,060   1.dU        am      8n    1.190      So0     920   1.3W             1I80m   2.70 O   4. 0
Cuttl: buin 6p08,0   17,168   4,                           3,11   166O 16,76          60   1880   4801,W                          0   4 CO
1518.mis00                        6.160   2,0011   2686 3278   80,99633    1,140  16.120   2,4010   1                          f16   6616   6141O
-   --   -  -  -        --  -'-  --
r*izel Refoe Zt                           1.01 2O '#0   StO   IS.61 20    l0   ItO   %~SIO                            87O4   1,JtO   "22,1                          i
TOTA. _AEI  COSTS         c         .2,0  2,XO2  40,3       1.91  32,940CU0    2.10    6=    4,90               e tO    tO0   4*4,! tO4,#0                          s§o
etysstcat COwti -nca                885   1.809   1,79       210   1.780   2.060    1in        3W       9                4      .79    4.7em
Price Coantngencies                 la       60      791      170   1.486   1,68       196   1.451 12,0t                 ON    .10   4,000
4@t@~~~~~~~~~meo                       9.0I'IMMI                                 MMeoIN 0oao #                  0 1t           ,t
TO_A   ind51                     6        *6 12C9O   16.910   4,478,161  40.47    108 0337   1083                    18.66   786    460,
-f        -tU<                             -          o    -         -       -ooo   a.t-,tO          40OO r'c                          -t



r M      AUrD CPWTILN tFROAET
ilETAILS PRlOJECT PDC iWM 0ISt 1)@U4M0)
19"                 190                          199                           TOTAL
Expenditure                       Lal Foreign   ToMl   L..l Forelgn   TotmI   Lo.ai Foreign   Toftl                rOCAL FIG       TOTAL
Spar. parts                               2,250   2.250                                                0               0   2,250   2.910
ESwironmentel Contol Ei;pwPnts                                                                         0               0       0       0
Voter truck for dutco entrol                        0             180      1O                        0               0      180    1g0
Elimiton   sulphur dioxide emlse nio                            1,000   1,000                        0               0   1.00    1,000
Replac Electrostatic proclptators                  0            2.700   2.700                        0               0   2.700   2,700
Plant Debobtlenockingwd Upgrade:                     0                        0                        0               0       0       0
Clarification                                       0           1.000   1.00             1,70    1.700               0   2.700   2,700
Prcipiltaton                                       0            2160   2.5O0             2,400   2,40                0   4.9U0   4,96O                                0
TOTAL 1-fl_nced bnm ctot          0   2,250   2,250        0   7,400   7,400       0   4.100   4,100                0    .7M0  18.300
isoical Contlgenclie                                       0     370     870       0      206     205               0     675      7
Price centlngnclc                                                                          8698 Sag  86                    702      7
TOTAL  i0-fInaed                     0   2.250   2,250        0   6.106   8,106       0   4.674   4.*74                0  1.027  1,017
Tot  Dicbur _etu                  2.300   4.550   6,I80   a,000  10.106  12,106     800   4,674   4.974            4,6t0  19,827  25,927
IERD                               0   2.250   2,250        0   8,106   0,103       0   4,674   4,674                0  15.02   15,027
EI                             2,800   2.00   4,600   2,000   2,000   4,000       S00       0      8             4,6O  4,80O   8,900
6E                              2,800   2,800   4.6tO   2,000   2,000   4,000      800       0     800           4,R00    4.00  6B.0"
im                                 0   2,250   2,250        0   8,108   6,108       0   4.674   4.674                0  1,01   15.027
CAP                             4.682  13,75  18,67   2,247   6.859   6,186   2.188   6.W7   6,442                9,064  22,9101   1,96"
AlCA                               0   3,Uii   8.68         0  20,259  20,239       0  10,416  10,416                0  84,M   34,111
TOTAL PROJECT atCOS               6,92  21,986  20,920   4,247  86.211  40.476   2,483  16,877  20,81t             18,646  76,86   90,210
00
to
-



- 47 -
AM=C 8
Page 1 of 1
CLMUlDON ALUINM   PRODUCTION PROJICY
REstiated Schedule of Disbursements
(USS millions)
Disbursed       Cumulative
Bank FY       Quarter         during        Amount       Balance of
Ending          Quarter      Disbursed   Loan
1989190        Sep 30          0.5          0.5          14.5
(FY90)        Dec 31          0.5           1.0          14.0
Mar 31          0.5          1.5          13.5
Jun 30          0.5          2.0          13.0
1990191        Sep 30         1.5           3.5          11.5
(FY91)        Dec 31          2.0           5.5          9.5
Mar 31          2.0           7.5         7.5
Jun 30          2.5          10.0         5.0
1991/2         Sep 30         1.5           11.5         3.5
(FY92)        Dec 31          1.5           13.0         2.0
Mar 31          0.5          13.5         1.5
Jun 30          0.5          14.0         1.0
1992/3         Sep 30         0.5           14.5         0.5
(FY93)        Jun 30          0.5           15.0         0.0
Source:  World Bank.



- 49                                       9
ANNU 9
' ge 1 of I
JAt^ICh
CLARENDOW  ALhI  PROWCTION PIOJECT
STAF APPRAISAL s UPT
Suaaested Key Indicators for Mbuitorint
I.      Financial
1. Cost of Alumina Produced
2. Cost of Bauxite Mined and Delivered
3. Caustic Soda Cost
4. Fuel Cost
5.  Labor Cost:  Salaried, Hourly, and Overtime
6. Clarendon Alumina Production, Ltd. sales in volume and value
7. Annual operating and capital budgets for CAP and JAMALCO
(including major revisions)
8.  CAP's balance sheet and income statements
9. JAMALCOs operating and capital expenditures
II.     Production
1. Bauxite Production/Day (average for preceding period)
2. Alumina Production/Day (average for preceding period)
III.    Efficiency
1. Bauxite/Alumina (DNT/HT)
2. Caustic Soda/Alumina (MTIMT)
3.  Fuel/Alumina (bbl/MT)
4. Number of Permanent and Temporary Employees
5. Physical progress of JAMALCO's capital expenditure program
IV.     Environmut
1. Progress of roof replacement program, including total
expenditures and number of roofs replaced
2. Air, surface, and groundwater quality data
3. Progress of resettlement program
4. Findings of research and development for mud lake



- 51 -
ANUEx 10
P8ge 1l of1
a.i_m   obuuno   PCT
Clerseed ALimim Productie. Limited
ICOME STAIEENT (1U# llJSAMS)
Nor.    Ma r. Mar.    Mar.    Mar.    Ms.    Ma.    Mar.    Mar.
io66    17       s6      1 to"    low     1919     1962    1903    1904
To. Sold                                                   6111,     4#5,_  862,11  411,11 426,  466,616
Averap US$ price/ton                                           196     176      107      170     176      104
Gross Sales                       32,Uf5  82,261  n1,9U  119,85t   72,15   w,273   611,66   74,64  37,413
Cost of Sales/ton                     02       75      76      16t     11       111      115     11      115
Totl Cost of Sales                24,702  U,6U8  54,67   2,666  46,7t4   4,03P   41,610   5,623  51,313
Depreciation                     1,654   1,664   i,340    5,490   8,85   8,256   8,66   3,625   4,06
Grov Proflt                        5,679  23,76   32,341  51,666  21n61   U,940   1,464  2          ,646  81,660
Other Income                         147'    27   1,746
Los: Othr Epeowse
CAP overhead                                 a *     41      2tJ     22       226      226     225      225
DATCO cR lesion                    162      411      as      597     So1      "1       so U73           437
tetrest                          1,6"1   1,914   2,28    1,421   1,01   1,M         2,674   2,492   2,354
Royalty                            U1       23       no      o6      218      l61      20      213      225
Lovy                             6,85    12,167  211,182  11,867   6,672   5,746   6,464   7,114   3,326
other
Total                         16,66   14,316  22,461  18,961   6,666   6,214   9,616  10,416  11,566
Net lncae befor Inco m     tax    (4,0 4)  9,19   11,6092   7,187  12,915   6,m        6,64   19,486  19,9U
tncom tax                                 1,552           12,367   8,675   2,610    2,594   3,1t29   6,99
Retained Earaing                  (4,064)  7,0#   11,692  24,M       9,641   6,19   60,062   7,J61   13,906
ASSUIPZONS
1  Average  luoins price: 9.25C of 1D1  projectd aluminum plem.
2. Production: Cradually bulId to productien at 1,56,M  tpa tn FY95/6.
8. Fuel costs: projected Ib fuel price e*calotion us  (Jan. 19u).
4. R el labor coat eocalate 11 per anue.
5. SATCO co  lsion a .*1 of ales.
6  Royalty a U96.51/ton.
7. Levy based on March 1 Alce Levy Rgime.
6. Income tax a "3.31.
. No dividend payout.
s. NDR  torm  at 1S, 1? yars Includie 5 ye rr graew; MC e_.



- 53-
ANNX 11
Page 1 of 1
JAMACA
CLARE~ON ALU11 POODCTI  PnurECT
Clarend.. Alumina Productlo Lltted
*lCUICS AI UW   OF PR_  (UN TNOUSAIS)
Mar     Ut/      Mar.    Mar.    Ma.    Mar.   Mer.    Nar.    Nar.
lo      LU?    166       I109    19U      ion     tat    am        129*
Intrnal Sources
lit operating lncom                5,670  23,75  82,346  51,651  21,561  16,94   16,464  26,64   81,155
other Incoeu                        147      267  1I'4          a       6        3       a        6 
Adds ODpreciatten                  1,654   1,64   5,84    5,496   8,g   8,153   $,5111   $,62    4,60
Loa: OSp. paid to Ale"e                                    'm       o
Total Internal Sources        7,6      5,6   89,442  5,723  24,6    ,3   22,4  24,671  55,665
Borrowi ng
Proposed I3  loan                                                    1,'6   6,o      7,9        "W
Propoed EEC loan                                                    4,660    4,91      no
EOF loan                          12,262   6,762
Alcoa Loan                                         17,19
B _east.                                             615
Total Berrowings             12,262   6,762   17,715       6   6,19   19,9    7,86         an        6
Imb  Equity                                                17,6M
Other Sources
TOTAL  WJ0CES OF FUOS             1,      81, 22 7,157  72,8     56,665  1,166  29,864   5,171   05,665
Capital Expnditurs                2,    5,6   29,663   7,83    14,46   26,289  10,416  12,95   6,as
Chan_e In nncah working capital   ,2U    5,769  (1,9648)  (1,652) 17,7M7  11,4        4*U       40      45U
Other Expediture                    256      491      40      U?      561       21     36        9      662
Lvy and royelies                  0,6,6  12,441  26,182  11,672   7,464   5,921   6,"4   7,826   6,56
lncrese  In Current Long-Ter Debt         2*,111  12,70   (6,511)
Debt Service                       1,6     5,84    6,64   11,169  14,52   5,265   4,239   3,742   3,6604
Repayment of Loans                  3   2,994   6,415  16,440  13,531   8,434   1,715   1,26   1,256
EOF                                    2,364   6,415   3,484   8,434   8,434   1,715
DlUD                                                                                      1,256   1,256
EEC
ALCOA (ti  nvestment)                                   7,014  19,997        9
!nterest                         1,39o   2,851   2,21    1,421   1,61   1,771   2,574   2,492   2,84
EDF                    I'M~~136    2,"I512,283    742    8so
1                                                       D          1n      6      1,"56    1,518   1,875
EEC                            *                                           04      970      979     979
ALCOA (in Investment)                                     on   O             6
income Taxes                          *   1,552        *  13,807   8,675   2,616   2,594   3,1n    5,996
TOTAL USES OF FUIDS               19,942  82,715  62,2U   188762  U,819  46,965  24,692  27,245  26,261
Cash ebneratlon/drewdown C-)          O    (ON3)  4,614  8,767  (27,718) (15,7)  4,872  (2,674) 10,U38
Acemulated Cash                                    4,924  48,561  15,797        8U   4,432   2,826  12,66



- 55 -
AMNNE  12
Pago 1 of
JUMCA
C.ARUON ALCUM  RADUCTnI PROCT
Clarernda Al,inis Predisleti  LUmite
f sl._ a _ I _ t 1" Ll~~~~~~~~cted
02UNCE SUT   06 lllllU)
Mlr.    Nr.    wae.    Mar.    Mar.    Ibr.          r.    war.   MIr.
[                                1 _~~~~~~w  1067    11Wl   1us.    urn      mu8    1ee       urns    1694
Crro AorlA
Coh                               s,"9   0,oa    11,9-    0 ,189   n ,428   0,C9  11,641   lt # t  19,m
I   Accomo4"  Rclv bl-                  *,101  12,1 |  10,M*  14,l1  15,*41  1 ,041   # ,641  16,441  16, U 1
lI*waterlo                        17,5     n4 174U   n,ON   17,M   n7,       17,9111  U ,141  10,M  10,511
L e: inventery solo                                (95
Total Current AsentA          1.       86,20  41,442   7,573  0466  45,80   0C,200  40,S0  69,744
Lees: Current liabillitee         22,468  2,228  48,441  51,054  U4,407  28,617  28,767  28,917  24,667
Current portion:
lontorm debt                     2,994   $,19   17,666  19,011  11,1
Acceut. Payable                   11,112   *,211   7,161  15,650  16,1_ 115,50  16,111  16,258  16,411
Levy and Royalty Payable           6,857  19,451  17,6       7nOt5    7,69   7,6069   7,650   ?,06      7,659
Ince  taxes payable                   0   1,4U0      05   *,m02
WNt Current Assets                 7,25   13,024    (659) 35,924  21,0  21,6091  26,518  24,689  85,677
Fixed Assets
Plant In Service                   1,365   6,01   85,744   42,944  67,464  ",648  00,9  110,90 198,659
Lees: Accuulated Dopreciltio          81   1,65   0,448   10,188  18,610  10,816  19,910  28,741  2,701
Nat Plant In Servic                1,0C4   4,0   290,8U1   82,911  44.846  01,827T  6.14   76,10   76,26
TOTAL ASSETS                       *,2C0  10,619  26,802  66,785  78,44  08,01    94,e65  191,267 118,946
0       0        0       6        0       0        0        0
FINANCED BY:
Lengrterm Debt                    12,262  14,375  12,975  11,012    $,W7   19,172   15756   15,066   18,75
Equtit
Paid In Capital                        *       0        0  17,6a0  17,NW   17,10   17,600  17,600  17,60
Retained Esralngs                 (4,C0 )  8,665  16,827  46,07   49,183  65,240  61,296  66,509  62,56
(4,0C8)  8,68   16,827    ,6097  66,7U   72,64    76,60    ,m16   l1,1
TOTAL DOT AND EQITY                8,259  10,19  20,802  66,785  7,U844  03,013  94,C65  101,267 118,945
Debt * .  of total                   148X      1W      46S      16x      5S      123      17X     153      123
capitalization
Current Ratio                        1.8      1.6     1.0      1.7     1.6      1.9     2.1      2.0     2.5
Qu1ck Ratio                          0.6     6.6      0.6      1.4     1.2      1.2     1.4      1.8      1.7



- 57 -
MM 13
tse I of X
CL&R3ND0I AL~UI3 PRODUCTION PUOJEC?
STAn APPRAISAL DZPO.T
Lconcaic at SensiLtivity AuaLtsis
NsPV       r
(US$ 000's)    (2)
Base Cases                     252,820     53.7
Benefits Lag 1 Year            174,867     38.7
Benefits Lag 2 Years           141,175     30.5
Switchina Values at lOZ
Capital Costs Increase                     340
Fuel Costs Increase                        305
Aluminum Price Decreases                    32
Production Decreases                        50



- 59 -
ANNEX 14
JAKAIC&
CLIIW  ALL         PRODUTION PROJCT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
List of Dou&ente Available In Prolect File
1. 1976 Joint Venture agreement between ALCOA and JBM
2. 1976 Joint Venture Agreement between ALCAN and JBM
3. 1976 Agreement between KAISER and JBM
4.  1985 Heads of Agreement between CAP and ALCOA
5. 1988 Joint Venture Agreement between ALCOA and CAP
6. CAP's Audited Accounts 1986, 1987, 1988



_    _              ~~~~~IIIRD
0,  iA                                                            At M                                                 JAMAICA
CLARENDON ALUMINA PRODUCTION PROJECT
UtEOCO                                     REAITYDOVJ~~~~~11. N                                             Ma.,g A-                                                                                       AEf
V                                                    0         .,s.t.
K :                                 JAMAICA                                      A) -t_                                     Alui- Evn A_ Fw  pl-) 
'ATEMtALA  ,'   <- '                                             --_ DTHER SH UXIIi I AIUIMA COMPANES
,     HCONDU9AS                                                                                                        Ally dOrt'.m BooMa k.WV. A-m                                                                        Pf    -- -A '\ 
SAlVADORt                                                      g-                                                       .Mo _A   ...............  .
NICARAGUA j                                                                                                                                                       -o      R d,
__                                ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~.4  Ioooite Roport (Port of DaParHA)                    ROod
.... tc.S COLO |  /  *VENEZUELA                                 .       AonoO lEPor (Por of Dpt)                    .                Eookotn         rO 
n76'                                       'R110 Mt d-o.d o IRSO                                                                                                     763R'
*-dego                                                                          Arm F o -  (    Caribbeon                 Sea
' =   jArpol                          '                              Boy R. , <   W                 EYN^OLDS
SAINT WoAofod0                           T-oror~.-
H.NAEN    0   V                                                                                                     IT,S    A  NI.}SAI
.4MES       ,' R         k      
I    NY          //                         DY   S~~~~~~~~~~~~A           
.N-                                                                          -~~~~~~~~~~
Nr0r,I   ' .  <-E t E It tT IA  0  O  ) L  vA  N   I
rt oio Mor              C        oia                                                                  ..    .  :                   ,  rS A N
=      ~~RiloOOH                                              ALPAR                            -                     //y~ ,
R   A N D           T ~             ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ I                                                                                             '               .
*~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~~  Infrn ionolirpor                                                                                           r .  ). b~                  'o              20             ior.__
Roroort Beorog A,oo
--      Inot.ooaol Cop.ndoI                                                                            M[O   o  oo.p,. -                                                                                                 
l7 Ma1o  MOw,  o                                                                 a r; b %  e a              Be o_
-      ~7 Rooo                                                                                         ..         pf7700                                                                   s,
toIroori.                                                                                                                       9        10        SE       ~~~~~~~~~~  719      ~~~~~ETAMECA
otontioal   coodobt                                                            ~' '~"River                                                                          .n#0    IAPr,    N       T wdI
PM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A



