Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 3062 JM
              (Clarendon Alumina Production Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
               CLARENDON ALUMINA PRODUCTION COMPANY
                       Dated August 8, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3062 JM
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August  8,  1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and  CLARENDON
ALUMINA PRODUCTION COMPANY (CAP).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between Jamaica (the Borrower) and  the  Bank, the Bank has agreed
to make available to the  Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifteen million  dollars ($15,000,000), on the terms
and conditions  set  forth  in  the  Loan  Agreement,  but only on
condition that the Borrower, CAP, ALCOA and JBM agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank  as  are referred to or set forth
in this Agreement and the Implementation Agreement;
     (B)  the  Borrower  and  Alcoa   Minerals  of  Jamaica,  Inc.
(hereinafter called ALCOA) are parties  to an agreement made as of
October 6,  1976  (hereinafter  called  the  1976 Agreement) which
established a basis  for  ownership  and  operation of the bauxite
mining and alumina  refining  enterprise  of the Clarendon Alumina
Page  2
Works in Jamaica (hereinafter called CAW);
     (C)  CAW was owned by Jamaica Bauxite Mining Limited (herein-
after called JBM) and  ALCOA  as  tenants  in common of the assets
acquired for  CAW  under  an  unincorporated  joint  venture named
JAMALCO;
     (D)  Clarendon Alumina Production Limited (hereinafter called
CAP) entered into an agreement with  ALCOA and JBM dated April 12,
1985 whereby  CAP  became  entitled  to  operate  CAW  for its own
account;
     (E)  the Borrower and ALCOA entered into an agreement made as
of March 1,  1988  (hereinafter  called  the 1988 Agreement) which
partially supersedes the  1976  Agreement  and which contemplates,
among other things, the joint participation  by CAP and ALCOA in a
bauxite mining and alumina refining enterprise in Jamaica;
     (F)  the Borrower, CAP and JBM have expressed their intention
to consolidate on CAP after March 5, 1989 the tenancy in common of
50%  of  the  JAMALCO  assets   used   in  the  Joint  Venture  by
disinteresting JBM through the acquisition  by CAP of JBM's equity
interest in the said  assets,  ALCOA  has expressed its consent to
such acquisition, and JBM has  appointed  CAP to act on its behalf
on all matters connected with the Joint Venture;
     (G)  in the 1988  Agreement  Aluminum  Company of America (as
the term is  defined  hereinafter)  represented  that  it owns and
controls ALCOA and that, until March  1, 1991 it shall continue to
own, directly or indirectly, ALCOA and to control it;
     (H)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the priority
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and as to
the feasibility of the Project  and of the aforesaid arrangements,
has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (I)  the Project will be  carried  out  by  CAP and ALCOA, as
basic  partners  to  the  Joint  Venture,  and,  as  part  of such
assistance the Borrower will make available to CAP the proceeds of
the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
     (J)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and  CAP,  the  proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will  be made available to CAP on the
terms and conditions set forth  in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and
     WHEREAS CAP, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with  the  Borrower,  has  agreed  to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) CAP  declares  its commitment to the objec-
tives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agree-
ment, and, to  this  end,  shall,  jointly  with ALCOA as partners
under the Joint Venture Agreement:  (i) carry out the Project with
due diligence and  efficiency  and  in conformity with appropriate
administrative,  financial,   engineering   and   mining  industry
Page  3
practices; and (ii) provide, or  cause to be provided, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the Project.
     (b)  In order to be able  to  comply with the obligations set
forth in this Article II and Section 4.01 of this Agreement in its
capacity as partner to the Joint Venture, CAP shall enter into the
Implementation Agreement with  the  Borrower,  ALCOA and JBM under
terms and conditions which  shall  have  been approved by the Bank
and which shall include  those,  specified  in Section 3.01 (b) of
the Loan Agreement.
     (c)  CAP  shall,  under  the   terms  of  the  Implementation
Agreement, cause ALCOA to  manage  the  Project in accordance with
the   1988   Agreement,   the   Joint   Venture   Agreement,   the
Implementation Agreement and this Agreement.
     (d)  CAP shall exercise  its  rights under the Implementation
Agreement and the Joint  Venture  Agreement  in  such manner as to
protect the interests of  the  Borrower,  CAP  and the Bank and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan,  and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, CAP shall  not  assign,  amend, abrogate or waive
the Implementation Agreement, the  Joint  Venture Agreement or any
provisions thereof.
     Section 2.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. CAP shall carry out, and shall, under the terms
of the Implementation  Agreement,  cause  ALCOA  to carry out, the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition,  respectively) in respect of the
Project Agreement.
     Section 2.04. (a)  CAP  shall,  at  the  request of the Bank,
exchange views  with  the  Bank  with  regard  to  progress of the
Project, the performance of  its  obligations under this Agreement
and the Implementation  Agreement,  and  other matters relating to
the  purposes  of  the  Loan,   and  the  performance  of  ALCOA's
obligations under the Joint Venture Agreement.
     (b)  CAP shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment  of  the  purposes of Loan, or the
performance by CAP of its obligations under this Agreement and the
performance of ALCOA under  the Implementation Agreement, the 1988
Agreement and the Joint Venture Agreement.
     Section  2.05.  Without  limitation   to  the  provisions  of
Section 9.07 of the  General  Conditions  CAP shall furnish to the
Bank, not later than  two  months  after  the end of each quarter,
progress reports on the implementation of the Project.
     Section 2.06. CAP shall, not  later  than December 31 in each
year,  submit  to  the  Bank   for   its  comments,  the  plan  of
expenditures under  the  Joint  Venture  Investment  Program to be
incurred during the following year,  as  approved by CAP and ALCOA
pursuant to the provisions of the Joint Venture Agreement.
     Section 2.07. CAP shall carry out, and shall, under the terms
of the Implementation  Agreement,  cause  ALCOA  to  carry out the
resettlement  plan,  and  the  environmental  program  designed to
address and  monitor  the  adverse  environmental  effects  of its
operations, both as set forth  in  CAP's  letter to the Bank dated
April 13, 1989.
                            ARTICLE III
Page  4
                 Management and Operations of CAP
     Section 3.01. (a) CAP shall  at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial  position,  plan  any  future expansion and
carry on its operations  in  accordance with sound administrative,
financial and mining industry  practices  under the supervision of
qualified and  experienced  management  satisfactory  to  the Bank
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
     (b)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, CAP shall:
          (i)  prepare and apply an operating manual, satisfactory
               to the Bank, setting  forth  lines of authority and
               job descriptions  for  key  management personnel of
               CAP; and
         (ii)  prepare and furnish to  the  Bank for its comments,
               by March 31  in  each  year, the proposed operating
               and capital budget of CAP for the following year.
     Section 3.02. CAP shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound engineering, financial and
mining practices.
     Section 3.03. CAP shall  take  out  and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make  other  provision satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and  in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  CAP  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  CAP shall maintain  and  shall,  under  the terms of the
Implementation Agreement,  cause  ALCOA  to  maintain  records and
accounts adequate  to  reflect,  separately,    in accordance with
sound  accounting   practices   the   operations,   resources  and
expenditures in respect of the Project.
     (c)  CAP shall, in respect of  paragraph (a) above and shall,
under the terms of  the  Implementation  Agreement, cause ALCOA in
respect of paragraph (b) to:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts  referred to in such
               paragraphs and  its  financial  statements (balance
               sheets,  statements  of  income  and  expenses  and
               related statements) for  each  of CAP's Fiscal Year
               and the  Joint  Venture's  Fiscal  Year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  four months after the end
               of each  such  year:  (A)  certified  copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Page  5
     (d)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, CAP shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one  year  after  the  Bank  has received the
               audit report for the fiscal  year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records.
     (e)  CAP shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (d) (i) of  this  Section for each fiscal
               year audited as part  of  the  audit referred to in
               paragraph (c) of this Section;
         (ii)  ensure that the  report  of  such  audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements  of  expenditure  submitted  during such
               fiscal  year,  together  with  the  procedures  and
               internal controls  involved  in  their preparation,
               can  be  relied   upon   to   support  the  related
               withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any  debt, if after the incurrence of
such debt the  ratio  of  debt  to  equity  shall be greater than:
(i) 65 to 35 for the  fiscal  year beginning on April 1, 1989; and
(ii) 60 to 40 for each fiscal year thereafter.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of CAP
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its  terms  of  payment,   on  the  date,  of  such
               contract,  agreement  or  instrument;  (B)  under a
               guarantee  agreement,  on  the  date  the agreement
               providing for such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "equity"  means  the  sum  of  the total
               unimpaired paid-up  capital,  retained earnings and
               reserves of  CAP  not  allocated  to cover specific
               liabilities.
         (iv)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
Page  6
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
CAP  shall  maintain  a   ratio   of  current  assets  to  current
liabilities of not less than 1.
     (b)  Before March 31 in each  of its fiscal years, CAP shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared  by CAP and satisfactory to the
Bank, review whether it would  meet  the requirements set forth in
paragraph (a) in  respect  of  such  year  and  the next following
fiscal year and shall  furnish  to  the  Bank  the results of such
review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  CAP  would not meet the
requirements set forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for CAP's fiscal years
covered by such  review,  CAP  shall  promptly  take all necessary
measures in order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "current  assets"  means  cash, all assets
               which could in the  ordinary  course of business be
               converted into cash within twelve months, including
               accounts  receivable,  marketable  securities,  and
               pre-paid expenses properly  chargeable to operating
               expenses within the next fiscal year.
         (ii)  The term "current  liabilities"  means all liabili-
               ties which will  become  due  and  payable or could
               under circumstances  then  existing  be  called for
               payment within  twelve  months,  including accounts
               payable, customer  advances,  debt service require-
               ments, taxes and  payments  in  lieu  of taxes, and
               dividends.
        (iii)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (iv)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.O2. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of CAP thereunder  shall  terminate  on  the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify CAP thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
Page  7
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For Clarendon Alumina Production:
          P.O Box 355 Hope Gardens
          Kingston 6
          Jamaica
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               JAMBAUX                        2309 - KINGSTON
                                            Telefax:
                                              (809) 927-1159
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on  behalf  of  CAP  may  be  taken  or  executed by its
Chairman or such other person or persons as CAP shall designate in
writing, and CAP shall furnish  to the Bank sufficient evidence of
the authority and  the  authenticated  specimen  signature of each
such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                    CLARENDON ALUMINA PRODUCTION COMPANY
Page  8
                    By /s/ Keith Johnson
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided  in  Part  C  hereof,  goods and works for
Parts A, B,  C  and  E  of  the  Project  shall  be procured under
contracts awarded in  accordance  with  procedures consistent with
those set forth  in  Sections  I  and  II  of  the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof,  goods  manufactured in Jamaica may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Environmental  control   equipment   not   exceeding  in  the
aggregate $2,700,000 equivalent  may  be  procured under contracts
awarded through limited  international  bidding  procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of  bids invited from a list of
at least three qualified  suppliers  eligible under the Guidelines
and in accordance with procedures  set  forth in Sections I and II
of the Guidelines (excluding  paragraphs  2.8,  2.9, 2.55 and 2.56
thereof).
2.   Spare  parts  not  exceeding   in  the  aggregate  $2,250,000
equivalent may be  procured  by  direct contracting from suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $100,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as  part of the evidence to be fur-
nished pursuant to paragraph 4  of  Schedule  4 to the Loan Agree-
ment.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (d) (ii) of this Agreement.
Page  9
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
