  Government of Mozambique

            The World Bank

EducationSector Support Pool Fund (FASE)
 (Fundo de Apoio ao Sector de EducagZo)

        ResettlementPolicy Framework
             Revised Draft Report
                   May2008
     ResettlementPolicy Framework (RPF)
             Revised Draft Report
               Proponent: FASE
                 MOZAMBIQUE

       Ministryof Educationand Culture
National Directorateof Planningand Cooperation

                   P.O. Box 34
                 Av. 24 de Julho
                     No. 167
                     Maputo
                  Mozambique




              TABLE OF CONTENTS

TABLE OF CONTENTS
WECUTNE SUMMARY
LIST OF ACRONYMS
DEFINITION OF TERMS USED I N THE REPORT
1.INTRODUCTION
1.1PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
1.2. ENVlRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR THE PROJECT ACTIVITIES
1.3 BASIS AND FORMAT OF THE RESETLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
2.0 OBJECTIVES AND JUSTIFICATION OF THE RESETTLEIYElVT POLICY FRAlYEWORK
2.1 0B:IECTIVES OF THE RESETTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK
2.2 JUSTIFICATION FOR THE RESEll-LEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK FOR THE FASE
3.0 LAND ADMINIS-rRATIOlV AND CATEGORIESOF AFFECTED PERSONS
3.1 JURISDICTION OF THE FRAlvlEWORK
3.2 LAND OWNERSHIP I N MOZAMBIQUE
3.3 LIKELY NUMBER AND CATEGORIES OF AFFECTED PERSONS
4.0 STEPS TO BE FOLLOWED IN LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT
    FOR THE FASE PROJECT ACTIVITIES
4.1 THE SCREENING PROCESS
4.2 STEPS LEADING TO PREPARATION OF THE RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN
5.0 GUlDING PRlNCIPLES FOR THE VARIOUS TYPES OF LAND ACQUISITION MECHANISMS
5.1 PREVIOUS AND CURRENT LAND ACQUISITION PRACTICE FOR MEC SCHOOLS
5.2 PROPOSED LAND ACQUISITION lYECHANISM
5.3 VOLUNTARY LAND CONTRIBUTION WITH COMPENSATION
5.4 VOLUNTARY LAND CONTRIBUTION WITHOUT COMPENSATION
5.5 :[.NVOLUNTARYACQUISITION OF LAND
6.0 ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA AND CONDITIONS FOR DISPLACEMENT OF PROJECT AFFECTED
PERSONS
6.1 WORLD BANK CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING ELIGIBILITY FOR COMPENSATION
6.2 PROCEDURES FOR PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION
6.3 MOZAPlBICAlV LEGISLATIOIV ON COMPENSATION
6.4 COMPARISON OF MOZAPIBIQUE LAW AND THE WORLD BANK OP 4.12 REGARDING
    COMPENSATION
6.5 CONDITIONS TO BE FOLLOWED IN DISPLACEMENT OF PEOPLE
7. IVOTIFICATION, VALUATION PROCEDURESAND ENTITLEMENTS
7.1 NOTIFICATION PROCEDURE
7.2 VALUATION FOR STATE OWNED LAND
7.3 VALUATION FOR CUSTOMARY LAND
7.4 CALCULATIONS FOR COMPENSATION PAYMENTSAND RELATED CONSIDERATIONS
7.5 ENTITLEMENTS FOR COMPENSATION
8. PROCEDURE FOR DELNERY OF COMPENSATION
8.1 CONSLILTATIONAND PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
8.2 NOTIFICATION OF LAND RESOURCE HOLDERS
8.3 DOCUPIENTATIONOF HOLDINGS AND ASSETS
8.4 COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES PIECHANISMS
8.5 AGREEMENT ON COMPENSATION AND PREPARATIONOF CONTRACTS
8.6 COMMUNllY COMPENSATION PAYMENTS
9. BUDGETARY IMPLICATIONS AND FUNDING
10. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
10.1 INSTITUTIONALARRANGEMENTS
10.2 LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENTPROCESS IMPLEMENTATION
10.3 LINKING RESETTLEMEIVT :IMPLEMENTATIONTO CIVIL WORKS
11.RESETTLEMENTAND COMPENSATIOIVIMPLEPIENTATIONAND MONITORING PLANS
                                             2

11.1:IMPLEMENTATIONPLAN
11.2 MOlVrrORING PLAN
APPENDIX 1Institutions of MEC/DIPLAC Proposed for Constr~~ctionand Rehabilitation under FASE
APPENDIX 2 Table for Prices Used to Compensate for Loss of Trees
APPENDIX 3 Categories of losses and their impacts on project affected persons
APPENDIX 4 Screening Criteria for Sites for the FASE Project Activities
APPENDIX 5 Main Contents of the ResettlementAction Plan
APPENDIX 6 Contentsfor Abbreviated ResettlementAction Plan
APPENDIX 7 STEPS LEADINGTO PREPARATION OF THE RESETTLEPIENTACTION PLAN
APPENDIX 8 Entitlement Matrix for Various Categories of PAPS
APPENDIX 9 Comparison of Mozambican Law and World Bank Op4.12 Regarding Compensation
APPENDIX 10 An example of a Schedule for Labor Costsfor activities on Replacement Land
APPENDIX 11An Example of a Schedule to be Used to Determine Monetary Compensation For
            Land Use
APPENDIX 12 Example of a schedule for Calculation of Compensationfor Buildings
APPENDIX 13 Example for Calculating Compensation for Fruit Trees
APPENDIX 14 Contents of a Corr~prehensiveCompensation Budget
APPENDIX 15 An Example of Land Acquisition and Resettlement Implementation Plan
APPENDIX 16 Example of Land Acquisition and Resettlement Process Monitoring Plan




EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

This Resettlement Policy Framework (RFP) for land acquisition and compensahbn has been
prepared based on the field visits and public consultations. The Framework establishes
parameters for the conductof land acquisitionand compensationincluding resettlement of Project
Affected Persons (PAPs), who may be affected during implementation of the Mozambique
EducationSectorSupportPool Fund (FASE).

It is anticipated that demand driven activities under the FASE will require additional land,
especially customary land to be alienated from local people, The Land Law, revised in 1997,
introduced several innovations that need to be regulated to, among other things, recognize the
righb acquired by occupancy of local communitiesand Mozambican individuals who, in good faith,
occupy land for at least ten years. With increasing population and the decreasing available land
resources, the number of people and magnitude of adverse impads caused by development
project activities, such as future FASE project activities, are likely to be significant especially in
resource strained areas.

This framework serves to provide safeguards against adverse impacts of future development
projects, through minimizing land acquisition and resettlemen and the number of Project
affectedpersons (PAPs). Itprovides procedures and means for adequately addressing involuntary
resettlementincluding compensatingfor the losses the Projectaffectedpersons may incur.

The proposed project activities fall under prescribed projects (category B) of the World Bank's
Operational Policy (OP 4.12) on involuntary resettlement. This framework therefore, will adopt
applicable principles outlined in the World Bank's Operational Policy (OP 4.12) on involuntary
resettlementinto local experiencesand legislationbecause they are not comprehensiveenough to
accord fair compensationand resettlement arrangements.

It is expected therefore, that the local legislation will either be reviewed or separateregulations
will be promulgated to ensure that land acquisition, compensation and resettlement issues are at
par with thosecontained in the WorldBank Policy on involuntaryresettlement.

This framework includes guidelines for compensation for land contributed voluntarily for
development projects; land contributed voluntarily for development projects without seeking
compensation; and land acquiredinvoluntarilyfor developmentprojects.

The guiding principle for land acquisition shall be that where land is required for implementation of
the FASE project activities, the recommended safeguards shall be observed to reduce the
suffering of the affected community members.

Theframeworkis intended to assist allproponents implementing WorldBank funded (Category B)
projects on the FASEprogramme. Theoverall responsibiliityfor implementation of this Framework
shall reside with MEC. ThisMinistry will be assisted by the Ministry of Local Government (MoLG),
Ministry of Agriculture (National Directorate for Lands), and the Ministry of Public Works and
Housing.

MEC will ensure that the Framework is publicly disclosed and disseminatedand that project staff
has the requisite skills and knowledge and, where necessary, they have received appropriate
training to implement the fiamework.

The District Administration shall take responsibility for implementation of the fiamework at
respective local authorities, with assistance from other line local omces of the above mentioned
government ministries. For Munic@alities, the Municipal Councils shall be responsible for the
implementation, withassistancefiom local representativesof the relevantgovernmentministries,

Implementation of the framework shall require a number of steps including public consultation
and partic@ation, thejurisdiction of the framework; land acquisition procedures; proclamation of
the acquired land; guidingprincipes for the various types of land acquisition; categoriesof losses;
notif/cation and valuation procedures; eligibility criteria; entitlements; procedures for payment of
compensation; resettlement plans that include census and inventory surveys; budgetary
implicationsandfunding; and monitoring and evaluation.

Thesesteps will ensure that future micro-projects are adequately reviewed and assessed for any
adverse social and economic impacts and that PAPS are fairly treated on land acquisition and
resettlement.

LIST OF ACRONYMS
ARAP          Abbreviated ResettlementAction Plan
EP            Primary Education
ESG           General Secondary Education
ESIA          Environmentaland Social Impact Assessment
ESMF          Environmentaland Social Management Framework
GoM           Government of Mozarrrbique
MEC           Ministry of Education and Culture
DPEC          Provincial Directorateof Educationand CI-~lture
CPs           Cooperation Partners
LGA           Local GovernmentAuthority
MADER         Ministry of Agric~llt~lreand Rural Development
MoLG          Ministry of Local Government
SDUT          District Services of Education, youth and Technology
OP            Operational Policy
PARPA         Action Plan for Reductionof Poverty
PAPS          ProjectAffected Persons
RPF           Resettlement Policy Framework

DEF:tNITIONOFTERMS USED I N THE REPORT

Unlessthe context dictates otherwise, the following ternis shall have the following meanings:
-
1. 'Census" means a field survey carried out to identify and determined the number of Project
Affected Persons (PAP); in accordance with the procedures, satisfactory to the Ministries of
Education and Culture (MEC) and the World Bank safeguard policies. The meaning of the word
shall also embrace the criteria for eligibility for compensation, resettlement and other measures,
emanating from consultationswith affected communities and the local chiefs.

2. Environmentaland Social Management Framework (ESMF) is a safeguard instrument
(document) which establishes a mechanism to determine and assess future potential
environmental and social impacts of the project funded activities in the FASE construction
program. The framework sets out mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be taken
durirrg design, implementation and operation of the project activities to eliminate adverse
environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels. This
instrument has been prepared as a separate and stand-alone document to be used in conjunction
with this RPF.

3. "Compensation" means the payment in kind, cash or other assets given in exchange for the
taking of land including fixed assets thereon, in part or whole.

4. "Cut-off date" is the date of commencement of the census of PAPs within the project area
boundaries. This is the date on and beyond which any person whose land is occupied for project
use, will not be eligible for compensation.

5. "Project affected persons" (PAPs) means persons who, for reasons of the involuntary
taking or voluntary contribution of their land and other assets under the project, result in direct
economic and or social adverse impacts, regardless of whether or not the said Project affected
persons physically relocate. These people will have their:

    (a) standard of living adversely affected, whether or not the Project Affected
    Person must move to another location ;

    (b) right, title, interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and
    grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed,
    temporarily or permanently, adversely affected;

    (c) access to productive assets adversely affected, temporarily or permanently;
    Or

    (d) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat adversely
    affected.

6. "Involi~ntaryDisplacement" means the involuntary taking of land resulting in direct
or indirect economic and social impacts caused by:

    (a) Loss of benefitsfrom use of such land;

    (b) relocation or loss of shelter;

    (c) loss of assets or access to assets; or

    (d) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not
    the project affected person has moved to another location.

8. "Involuntary Land Acquisition" is the taking of land by government or other government
agencies for compensation, for the purposes of a public project against the will of the landowner.
The landowner may be left with the right to negotiate the amount of compensation proposed.
This includes land or assets for which the owner enjoys uncontested customary rights.

9. "Land" refers to agricultural and/or non-agricultural land and any structures thereon whether
temporary or permanentand which may be required for the Project.

10. "Land acquisition" means the taking of or alienationof land, buildings or other
assets thereon for purposes of the Project.

11. 'Mashamba" means subsistence farming plot

12 Rehabilitation Assistance" means the provision of development assistance in addition to
compensation such as land preparation, credit facilities, training, or job opportunities, needed to
enable project affected persons to improve their living standards, income earning capacity and
production levels; or at least maintain them at pre-project levels.


13 Resettlement and CompensationPlan", also known as a "Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP)" or 'Resettlement Plan" - is a resettlement instr~~ment(document) to be
prepared when school locations are identifed. In such cases, land acquisition leads to physical
displacement of persons, and/or loss of shelter, and/or loss of livelihoods and/or loss, denial or
restriction of access to economic resources. RAPSare prepared by the party (in this case DIPLAC-
CEE, Provincial Directorates of Education and Culture and districts) impacting on the people and
their livelihoods. RAPS contain specific and legally binding requirements to be abided by schools
or relevant local authorities to resettle and compensate the affected party before implementation
of the project activities causing adverse impacts.

14."Replacement cost" means replacement of assets with an amount sufficient to cover full
replacementcost of lost assets and relatedtransaction costs. The cost is to be
based on Market rate (commercial rate) according to the Mozambique law for sale of land or
property. In terms of land, this may be categorized as follows;

   (a) "Replacement cost for agricultural land" means the pre-project or pre-displacement,
   whichever is higher, market value of land of equal productive potential or use located in the
   vicinity of the affected land, plus the costs of:

   (b) preparing the land to levels similar to those of the affected land; and

   (c) any registration, transfer taxes and other associated fees;

15. "Replacement costfor housesand other structures" means the prevailing
cost of replacing affected structures, in an area and of the quality similar to or better
than that of the affected structures. Such costs shall include:

   (a) transporting building materialsto the construction site;

   (b) any labor and con,tractorslfees; and

   (c) any registration costs.

16. "Resettlement Assistance" means the measures to ensure that project affected persons
who may require to be physically relocated are provided with assistance during relocation, such as
moving allowances, residential housing or rentals which ever is feasible and as required, for ease
of resettlement.

17. "'The Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF)' has been prepared as an instrument to be
used throughout the FASE implementation. The RPF will be disclosed to set out the resettlement
and compensation policy, organizational arrangements and design criteria to be applied to meet
the needs of the people who may be affected by the program. The Resettlement Action
Plans("RAPs") for the FASEwill be prepared consistent with the provisions of this RPF.

18. "Voli~ntaryLand Contribution" refers to a process by which an individual or comm~~nal
owner agrees to provide land or property for project related activities. Voluntary contribution is an
act of informed consent, made with prior knowledge of other options available and their
consequences, includingthe right not to contribute or transfer the land. It must be obtained
without undue coercion or duress.

Voluntary Land Contribution may be of two types:

    (a) Voluntary Land Contribution for Compensation, or

    (b) Voluntary Land Contribution without Compensation

1.0INTRODUCTION

Programsummary:

'The Strategic Plan for Education and Culture (SPEC) 2006-2011/11 has recently been approved in
the Council of Ministers. The document is a result of intensive dialogue between government and
its partners that started as early as 2002. The approved five-year education strategy provides a
credible framework that translates Mozambique's political commitment to education into viable
options for implementation. It brings together a nurr~berof distinct components of policy and
service delivery in a coherent way within the context of current capacity and financial constraints.

Over the last four years, during which the strategic plan was being elaborated, a number of key
policy decisions have been taken in the areas 'that face major inefficiencies and inequalities,
particularly in the area of primary education:
i)     Introduction of new basic education curriculum;
ii)    Accelerated school constructionat lower costs with community involvement;
iii)   Rationalisationof teacher training (in-service and pre-service);
iv)    Reform of techr~icaland vocational education;
v)     Decentralisationof (financial) management, including direct support to schools.

The proposed Fast Track Initiative Catalytic Fund (Fil CF) grant will contribute to the
implementation of the Mozambique Strategic Plan for Education and Culture (2006-2010/11)
(SPEC), by reducing its projected financing gap in 2008, 2009, and 2010.

Mozambique prioritises education as an important strategy for economic growth and poverty
reduction. The Mozambique second Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) (2006 - 2009)
highlights good governance, economic growth and human capital development as three key pillars
for growth and poverty reduction. The SPEC translates the general principles of the PRSP into a
clear strategic framework that prioritises quality primary education for all within the context of an
overall balanced education system that would build the necessary capacity required to further
national development.

The CF Grant will be channeled through the Mozambique education sector donor funding pool,
FASE, and will be implemented by the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC).

1.1PROJECTDESCRIPTION

EDUCATION SECTOR SUPPORT PROGRAM (2008-2010)

The Catalytic Fund (CF) grant will be channeled through ,thepool funding FASE, the description of
the program therefore pertains to the entire Education Sector S~~pportProgram financed by FASE,
rather than the CF grant per se.

Program Development Objectives(PDO)

The Development Objectives of the Program are to support the implementation of the Strategic
Plan for Education and Culture 2006-2010/11 (SPEC) approved by the Council of Ministers, in
particular focusing on primary and secondary education while ensuring capacity strengthening of
the Ministry of Education and CI-~ltureand its provincial and district departments in policy
development, administration and implementation, monitoring, and evaluation.

DescriptionofFASEAnnual Program Components

Though details of FASE program will differ from year to year based on the particular needs and
gaps of the year and as a result of consultations within the government and with CPs, FASE
annual program can be described in a general fashion below:

Component 1: Primarv Education. This component is designed to support improvement of access
and quality in primary education by building additional classrooms in rural areas (sites to be
determined); purchasing additional copies of primary textbooks, providing school grants, and
strengthening the provincial and district level education management capacity.

Component 2: Non-formal Adult Literacy Program. This component is designed to support literacy
programs for adult learners by subsidizirlg trainer fees, developing and distributing teaching and
learning materials, and provision of training to provincial and district education officers involved in
adult non-formal education.

Component 3: Secondary Education. This component is designed to support development of
secondary education strategy and further to finance specific investment in secondary school
construction (sites to be determined), proc~lrementof secondary textbooks, and grants to
secondary schools.

Component 4: Teacher Training and Support. This component is designed to support in-service
teacher training programs. More than half of the primary teachers in Mozarr~biqueare considered
"unqualified". The corr~ponentwill also provide financing to strengthen school supervision.

Component 5: Special proarams in Distance, Special, ICT, sender and HIVfAIDS Education. This
component brings together smaller programs under SPEC. It will support the construction of
special education centers (sites to be determined), procurement of hardware and sohare for ICT
applicaoon at the central and provincial level, procurement of sensitization materials for gender
and HIVIAIDS education and prevention, and development of programs in distance education and
HIV/A:[Ds

Component 6: Institutional Development. This component is designed to strengthen institutional
capacity of the Ministry at the central, provincial, and district level. At all levels of education
administration, there will be provision of equipment, technical assistance and training in policy
development, monitoring and evaluation. Emphasis is placed more at the provincial and district
level.


The Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and the Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF) are designed to address potential adverse environmental and social impacts of
future investments. The Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) will outline the principles, policies
and procedures to be followed in the event that future investments involve land acquisition which
could lead to a loss of livelihoods among affected persons.

These frameworks will also apply to future investments under the Education Sector Support
Program to be financed by FASE as well as future SWAps. Both, the ESMF and the RPF, will be
disclosed in Mozambique and at the Bank's Infoshop prior to the signing of the Grant Agreement.


1.2. ENVIRONMENTALAND SOCIAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR THE PROJECTACTIVITIES

Unmitigated involuntary resettlement arising from development projects often leads to severe
economic, social and environmental impacts where:
  production systems are dismantled,
  people face impoverishmentif their productive assets or income sources are lost;
  people are relocated to environments where their community institutions and social networks
are weakened;
  kin groups are dispersed, and cultural identity, traditional authority and the
potential for mutual help are diminished or lost.

As part of the support to the educational efforts to improvement on access and quality, the
project will improve the physical infrastructure for school buildings and associated water supply
and sanitation facilities (Component 1, 3 and 5 described above). More important for this RPF,
new projects, whose location and technical specifications are not known at the moment, are
planned for future implementation.

To ensure that these infrastructure improvements and the new development projects are carried
out in an environmentally and socially sustainable manner, the project will carry out an
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) and a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF).
The Environmental and Social Impact Assessment Report will be prepared as a separate
document. This Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) is confined to those impacts
relating to land acquisition and resettlement, arising from implementation of the
proposed FASE project activities. The framework serves to provide safeguards against severe
adverse impacts of the proposed project activities and proposes mitigation against potential
impoverishmentrisks by:

   a) avoiding displacement of people in the first place or;

    b) minimizing the number of Project affected persons or;

    c) adequately compensating the project affected persons for losses incurredor;

    d) adequately addressing adverse impacts of the intended interventions.

In the FASE, the project activities that may trigger land acquisition and resettlement safeguard
policies, are in Components 1, 3 and 5, regarding improvement of access and quality in Primary
Education, investment in secondary school construction and in Special programs in Distance
(construction of special education centers, in particular). These project activities include
rehabilitation and construction of physical infrastr~~cturefor school buildings, workshops and
related water supply and sanitation facilities. In particular new projects, to be carried out after the
pilot phase, may result in resettlement of people and/or denying them of access to land and
different types of natural resources.

Most of the existing Primary and Secondary Schools and Teachers Training institutes were
constructed in sparsely cultivated areas with low population at the time the projects were
implemented. Hence, the magnitude of adverse impacts on land may have been minimal at that
time. However, with increasing population and the decreasing available land resources, the
number of people and magnitude of adverse impacts associated with land acquisition and
resettlement are likely to be significant, especially in resource strained and protected areas.
Further, the details like locations of the new facilities to be constructed are not known at the time
of preparation of the RPF. Further, at present, the details like locations of the various new
facilities to be constructed are not known. It is therefore appropriate that this Resettlement Policy
Framework be prepared.

1.3 BASIS AND FORMAT OF THE RESE-TTLEMENTPOLICY FRAMEWORK

1.3.1 Basisfor Preparationof the Framework

1.3.1.1 PastSimilar Experience

In Mozambique, there are a number of development projects that have been implemented
recently, involving resettlement and compensation programmes. The Sasol Natural Gas Project
prepared a resettlement and compensation procedure for the TemanelPande Field Development
Projects and the Mozambique/Secunda Pipeline. The compensation and resettlement procedure
was aimed at ensuring that all parties affected by the project were resettled and compensated
fairly and equally. The project was implemented in 2001.

The Mozambique Aluminium (MOZAL) project carried out resettlementand compensation work for
the affected persons. The resettlement and compensation activities aimed at providing the same
or better conditions of living to the affected persons. Compensation in form of land, buildings,
cash, seed and other help was provided as appropriate. The project has taken strides to ensure
mutual sustainable development, through the involvement of the communities, within 10
kilometres of the aluminium smelter. The Mozal Community Development Trust (MCDT)
established in 2000, is supporting community development projects in the areas of Small Business

Development, Education and Training, Health and Environment, Sports and Culture and
Community Infrastructure. MOZAL is supporting the community to become self sufficient by
enabling them to harness indigenous skills and to turn them into income generating businesses.
Single mothers and widows in Matola and Djuba areas, for instance, are receiving training to
generate income for themselves and their families in chicken raising, carpet making, embroidery
and cashew nut cropping. These activities are part of the MOZAL il-~itiatives,aimed at reducing or
mitigating the environmental and social impacts of resettlement, associated with the aluminium
smelter project.

Consultation during the preparation of this RPF revealed that the Directorate for Lands and the
Directorate for Planning have been involved in resettlement and compensation works where
evaluations have been done by multi-sector committees comprising representationfrom Housing,
Health, Education, Local Government, Agric~~lture,Energy and Lands authorities. Itwas learnt that
in their payment for compensation, lists of prices were used for determining the amount to be
paid for loss of trees, for instance. An example of such a list used by the Directorate for Urban
Planningin Matola is given in Appendix 2.

On the other hand, during consultation, it became apparent that issues of resettlement and
compensation had not been of much concern in the past, for the Ministry of Education and
Culture projects at central, provincial and distrital levels. Cases of resettlement and compensation
could only be traced to payment for a few fruit tress, in very isolated cases. Contrary to the
provisions of the World Bank Policy OP 4.12, which advocates some kind of compensation for
cases of this nature, the resettlement procedure for this case was perceived to attract no
compensation or any form of assistance, since the affected persons should not have settled in the
school premises, in the first place. Apart from these isolated and minor cases, there is no previous
record of major resettlement and compensation issues for school projects.

1.3.1.2 Needfor Preparationof the RPFfor the FASE ProjectActivities

A number of schools and colleges have been regularly visited by technicians at Provincial and
central level. The visits confirm the need for rehabilitation of some of the structures in most of
these schools and colleges. In general the visits reveal that the buildings, constructed decades
ago have not been regularly maintained for long time. The walls and roofs require major
rehabilitationworks. Glass and widows are broken and the water systems require renovation and
maintenance. In addition, secondary schools and Teachers Training institutes lack basic laboratory
equipment and furniture to enable the students learn well and carry out their practical activities
effectively.


In the majority of the schools, it is noted that land is generally available for future minor
expansion works. Hence there may be no urgent need for acquiring new land and resettling
people in the near future. However as a requirement for the project and as a safeguard against
impacting on the livelihoods of the people of Mozambique, the preparation of the RPF has been
undertaken.
This Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF), to be used for screening of projects in the
Mozarrlbique Education Sector Support Pool Fund (FASE), has been prepared following the results
of the findings from the above and other field investigations. Interviews with local people and

officials from various Ministries, Local Government Offices, Private Sector; and information from
some previous studies reports and documents have been used in preparingthis framework.

During the new schools construction and rehabilitation of existing ones, there may be cases
where land is needed for new classrooms. Such cases will trigger the World Bank's Policy on
Resettlement. Hence, this Resettlement Policy Framework is prepared for the FASE project
activities whose location of land acquisition is unknown at the time of project preparation. The
framework establishes parameters for the conduct of land acquisition and compensation including
resettlement of persons who may be affected by the implementation of the FASE project
activities.

The screening process developed in this framework is consistent with the Bank's safeguard
operational policy OP 4.12, for Involuntary Resettlement. This policy requires that all Bank-
financed operations are screened for potential impacts, and that the required compensation work
is carried out on the basis of the screening results. The framework therefore, while adopting and
adapting some of the local experiences and the provisions of local legislation, is based on the
World Bank's Operational Policy (OP 4.12) on involuntary resettlement, which emphasizes on the
following principles:

   Avoiding or minimizing involuntary land acquisition and resettlement, where feasible and
exploring all viable alternatives before resorting to involuntary resettlement.

  Where involuntary resettlement and land acquisition is unavoidable, assistance and sufficient
resources should be provided to the project affected persons with the view to niaintair~ingand/or
improving their standards of living, earning capacitiesand production levels.

    Encouraging commu~-~ityparticipation in planning and irr~plemer~tirrgland acquisition,
corr~pensationand/or resettlement, and provision of assistance to affected people regardless of
the legality of their land rights or their title to land.

1.3.2 Format of the Resettlement Policy Framework

The Resettlement Policy Framework is presented in the in the following manner:

  Chapter Iprovides a brief background to the project and presents the intentions the World Bank
and co-operating partners to address the problems. The FASE programme objectives and
components are described and the environmental and social considerations (including the RPF
and the ESIA) for the project activities are introduced.

  Chapter 2 gives the objectives and justification for preparing the RPF, highlighting among other
issues, the objectives to address the hardships that would arise from land acquisition and
resettlement of people to accommodate the FASE project activities. The justification for preparing
the RPF is provided in the legal provisions of the Mozambican Land Law Legislation and other
relevant national legislation; as well as the World Bank's OP4.12
   In Chapter 3 Land Administration including land ownership and land tenure systems in
Mozamibique are given. The Chapter also gives the likely categories of affected persons that
include ordinary households, individualsand disadvantaged persons.

  Chapter 4 introduces the screening process and outlines the steps leading to the preparation of
the Resettlement Action Plans (RAPS).

  Chapter 5 deals with land acquisition mechanisms for the project activities. It further proposes
mechanisms for acquisition of all types including voluntary and involuntary types of land
acquisition. The Chapter gives details of information and records to be kept for land acquisition
activities.

  Chapter 6 deals with the eligibility and conditions for compensating project affected persons by
first high lighting the World Bank's OP4.12 provisions for eligibility for compensation, resettlement
and rehabilitation assistance. The chapter continues with proced~~~resfor payment of
compensation and makes a comparison between the World Bank and Mozambican law regarding
compensation. Finally the Chapter gives conditionsto be followed in displacement of people

   Chapter 7 outlines procedures for notifying the public about intentions to acquire land
earmarked for projects. The Chapter also gives procedures for the valuation of assets and
calculation of compensation payments.

   Chapter 8 provides procedures for delivery of compensation, emphasizing the need for public
consultation and public participation, notification of land resources holders and documentation of
land holding and assets as important aspects. The Chapter provides a procedure for addressing
complaints and grievances. Finally the chapter emphasizes the importance of signing
corr~pensationagreements and the need for transparency and ensuring the presence and
participation of all parties concerned when making compensation payments.

  Chapter 9 gives the budgetary implications and the funding mechanisms

   Chapter 10 gives the institutional and implementation arrangements, highlighting the roles of
each of the institution in the overall implementation of the corr~pensationand resettlement plan.
The chapter further highlights the land acquisition and resettlement process that includes the
preparation of resettlement plans, the importance of public consultation and participation in all
the activities, the irr~portanceof observing key timeframes and the importance of linking
resettlement implementationto the civil works.

   Chapter 11 provides for land acql- isi it ion and resettlement, implementation and monitoring
plans. The Chapter provides formats for resettlement management plan and monitoring plan.

 2.0 OBJECTIVESAND JUSTIFICATION OFTHE RESElTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK

2.1 OBJECTIVES OF THE RESElTLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK

Involuntary resettlement arising from development projects often gives rise to severe economic,
social and environmental hardships. The hardships stem from the following reasons among
others:
  disruption of production systems,
  affected persons skills being rendered inapplicable in new environments,
  increased competition for resources,
  weakening of community and social networks,
  dispersion of kin groups
  Loss of cultural identity and traditional authority and
  loss of mutual help

I n most cases, resettlement of people to pave way for development projects is done because the
project activities demand land acquisition. Little attention, if any, is given to the welfare of the
people affected. The people may be affected because of loss of agricultural land, loss of buildings,
loss of access or proximity to water, health and social amenities. Appendix 3 gives details of
categories of losses and their impacts on Project affected persons.

The objective of this Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) is to provide a screening process, for
future FASE project activities, to ensure that where land acquisition for project activities is
inevitable, resettlement and compensation activities for lost land should be conceived and
executed in a sustainable manner. This entails providing sufficient investment resources to meet
the needs of the persons affected and/or displaced from their habitat and resources. It also
requires adequate collaborative consultation and agreement with the project affected persons to
ensure that they maintain or improve their livelihoods and standards of living in the new
environment.

The Resettlement Policy Framework provides guidelines for development of appropl-iatemitigation
and compensation measures, for the impacts caused by future project activities whose exact
locations are not known prior to project appraisal. The RPF is intended for use as a practical tool
to guide the preparation of Resettlement Action Plans (RAPS) for subproject activities during
implementation of the FASE.


2.2 JUSTIFICATION FORTHE RESETrLEMENT POLICY FRAMEWORK FOR'THE FASE

In the FASE, the proposed project activities, partic~~larlyfor new construction are likely to result in
resettlement of people, or in some way or another, to affect people's livelihoods and access to
land and socio-economic opportunities.

This framework therefore is necessary to provide guidelines for addressing concerns of affected
persons where: -

    (a) land is contributed voluntarily for the development project activities in return for
    compensation;
    (b) land is contributed vol~lntarily for development project activities without seeking
    compensation; and
    (c) land is acquired invol~lntarilyfor the development project activities.

The guiding principle for land acquisition shall be that where land is required for implementation
of the FASE project activities, appropriate safeguards shall be observed to reduce the suffering of
the affected community members.

This framework shall be used on all FASE project sites where land disputes need to be resolved
and on all FASE future demand-driven project activities. The framework is intended for use by all
proponents implementing World Bank funded (Category B) projects under the FASE and will be
applicable to private and NGO institutionsthat will utilize FASE funds; and all project activities that
fall under the Education and Culture Sector Strategic Plan programme as may be necessary. The
RPF is presented in a much more comprehensive manner so as to guide and ensure that all
situations of population disturbance resulting from the implementation of the FASE project
activities are catered for.

2.2.1 Legal Framework

The Resettlement Policy Framework draws its strength from local legal instruments that exist in
Mozambique, specifically the new Land Law legislation No. 19/97. This collection of legislation
covers regulationfor the key aspects of land occupation and use in Mozambique.

Also covered in the regulation are the various situations of land acquisition, includirrg among
others:
  the acquisition of the right of land use and benefit by customary occupancy in good
faith,
  the acql- isi it ion of the right of land use and benefit through the official channels;
  the r1.1lesgoverning protectionzones;
  the relationship between the PI-~blicand the Cadastre Services; and
  the rights and duties of the title holders

Article 3, of the Land Law stipulates that in the Republic of Mozambique, land is the property of
the State. This is also captured in Article 46 of the Constitution. Consequently, land may not be
sold, alienated, mortgaged or attached (distrained).

The Law states however, that although land is owned by the State, all Mozambicans have the
right to use and enjoy the land or the right to land use and benefits thereto. Specifically, Article 9
provides for the acquisition of the right of land use and benefit by occupancy by local
communities; while Article 10 provides for the right of land use and benefit by occupancy in good
faith by national individuals.

The Mozambican Land Law Legislation recognizes the rights acquired through systems of
customary occupancy and the role of communities in the management of land and natural

resources and conflict resolution. This is spelt out in Article 24. Article 27 provides for the
requirements and modalities regarding consultation, on land matters, with the local communities.

Article 30 dictates that the mechanisms for representation of and action by local communities,
with regard to the rights of land use and benefit shall be established by law; while Article 23
empowers District Administrators, where there are no Municipal or Settlement Councils, to
authorize applications for land use and benefit.

The Land Law Legislation captl-~resand observes internationally innovative featl-~resthat facilitate
equitable development, based on relations that are mutually beneficial to local communities and
to investors whether these are national or foreign.

The Right of Eminent Domain (Article 86 of the new constitution of Mozambique) says that
individuals and entities have the right to equitable compensation for expropriated assets and the
right to a new and equal plot of land.

In addition to the Land Law, there are a number of legislations that pertain to land administration
in Mozambique. These include the Land Policy, the Framework Environmental Law, and the
National Heritage Protection Law. However, this study has revealed that the provisions in these
Acts are not comprehensive enough to accord fair compensation and resettlement arrangements.
The following are some of the relevant legislations:

  The New Land Policy was approved by the Council of Ministers in October 1995. The main
elements of this new policy are that: it recognizes customary rights over land, including the
various inheritance systems; it recognizes the role of the local community leaders in the
prevention and resolution of conflicts; it aims at creating conditions for the development and
growth of the local community and the promotion of investment by the commercial sector; and
that it maintainsthe concept of land belonging to the state.

  'The Framework Environmental Law passed by Parliament in July 1997, provides the legal
framework for the use and correct management of the environment and its components; and to
ensure sustainable development in lulozambique. Among other things, the law (Article 4) states
that any citizen who believes his rights have been violated or are under threat of violation may
take legal action against the perpetrator. Violation of rights includes personal loss and injury; and
the loss of crops and profits. Environmental Management responsibility rests with the Ministry for
Coordination of Environment (MICOA) formed in 1994. In 1995 MICOA drew up the National
Environmental Management Plan, which among other things, forbids all activities that may
threaten biodiversity. The plan also provides for the establishment of Environmental Protection
Zones, which may cover land areas and other distinctive features.

  The National Heritage Protection Law (Law 10188 of December, 1988) is intended to
protect all national antiques, historical and cultural heritage. Such protected areas are to be
avoided in the selection of project sites.

The provisions of the Land Law support fair land acquisition, compensation and resettlement
procedures to be developed and implemented. Hence the Land Law provides adequate legal
foundation for the preparation of this Resettlement Policy Framework. However, the other

legislative provisions fall short of the necessary provisions to adequately support compensation
and resettlement problems. It is expected therefore, that the relevant legislations that must deal
with land acquisition will either be reviewed or separate regulations will be promulgated to ensure
that land acquisition, compensation and resettlement issues are at par with those contained in the
Land Law and the World Bank Policy on involuntary resettlement. However, where currently there
are discrepancies between the World Bank's and the Government's requirements, the World Bank
policies will prevail.

2.2.2 World Bank Policies
The World Bank's Safeguard Policy OP 4.12 applies to all components of the programnieand to all
economically and /or physically project affected persons, regardless of the number of people
affected, the severity of impact and the legality of land holding. Particular attention should be
given to the needs of v~llnerablegrol-ipsespecially those below the poverty line, the landless, ,the
elderly, women and children, indigenous groups, ethnic minorities and other disadvantaged
persons.

The World Bank's Policy requires that a resettlement action plan is prepared and cleared by the
Bank prior to implementing resettlement activities. The Bank also requires that the provision of
compensation and other assistance to Project Affected Persons is carried out prior to the
displacement of people. In particular, possession of land for project activities may take place only
after compensation has been paid. Resettlement sites, new homes and related infrastructure,
public services and moving allowances must be provided to the affected persons in accordance
with the provisions of the ResettlementAction Plan.

The policy encourages availing employment opportunity, on the project activities, to the affected
persons. This facilitates easy participation of the affected persons, in the planning and preparation
of Resettlement Action Plans. It also offers the impacted persons an opportunity to generate
income.

3.0 LANDADMINISTRATION AND CATEGORIESOF
AFFECTED PERSONS

3.1 JURISDICTION OF THE FRAMEWORK

In implementingthis framework, the following will apply: -

    a. Where the landowner has willingly or voluntarily contributed land but is seeking
    compensation, the assessment for compensation shall be treated as for the case of involuntary
    land acquisition.

    b. Where land whose owner has freely contributed but is not seeking compensation for it, the
    assessment for compensation shall only include assets thereon and not land.

    c. Compensation shall be limited to valuations made after the cut-off date. Valuations shall be
    made immediately after the cut-off date and then again at the time of impact. The higher
    value of the two shall be used for compensation payment

    d. Compensation for existing schools shall be limited to new land for school and school related
    services extension, rehabilitationof infrastructure and construction of feeder roads.

    e. All land conflicts shall be resolved in a transparent manner and in a manner that is not
    coercive. Attempts shall be made to resolve conflicts at the village,
    Traditional Authority (TA) or District level. Where this is not possible, courts of law shall be
    consulted.

3.2 LAND OWNERSHIP IN MOZAMBIQUE

3.2.1 General Land Classification
Land in Mozambique is owned by the state and ownership is vested with the President as a
trustee. According to the MOZLEGAL Land Law Legislation of 2004, land ownership is categorized
as follows:

Public domain is areas destined for the satisfaction of the public interest. This is land on which
socio-economic activities are permitted. The Total and Partial Protection Zones are part of the
public domain. Also included in the public domain are the Nature Protection Zones, which are
intended for conservation of certain animal or plant species, biodiversity, historical, scenic or
natural monuments. 'These zones are subject to specific regl- lat ti on and the law advocates a
system of management that involves local community participation.

Total Protection Zones are areas that are intended for nature conservation or preservation
activities and also for State security and defence.

PartalProtectionZones include:
  land strips up to 50 meters along the edges of navigable rivers and lakes, measured from the
high water mark of such waters;

  the land strip of up to 100 metres surrounding water sources;
  the strip of maritime coastline including that around islands, bays and estuaries, measured from
the high water-mark to a point 100 meters inland;
  the strip of up to 250 meters along the edge of dams and reservoirs and;
  the two kilometres strip of land along the terrestrial border.
 It also includes: the land occupied by p~.~blicinterest railway lines and bordering strips including
the respective railway stations; the land occupied by motor ways and highways, aerial, surface,
underground and underwater installations and condl- its for electricity, telecorr~mur~ications,
petroleum, gas and water including bordering strips of 50 metres on each side; land occupied by
roads including bordering strips of 30 for primary roads and 15 metres on each side for secondary
and tertiary roads.

No rights of land use and benefit can be acquired in total or partial protection zones, although
special licenses may be issued for specific activities. Hence for the FASE project activities,
these areas would not be appropriate.

3.2.2 General LandAcquisition, Title, Transfer and Term of Ownership

Land ac~uisitionin Mozambique may be achieved through:
    a. Occupancy by individual persons and by local communities, in accordance with customary
    norms and practices, which do not contradict the Constitution;

    b. Occupancy by individual national persons who have been using the land in good faith for at
    least ten years and;

    c. Authorization of an application submitted by an individual or corporate person in the manner
    established by the Land Law

The Land Law Legislation stipulates that a land title shall be issued by the general or urban Public
Cadastre Services. However, the absence of title shall not prejudice the right of land use and
benefit acquired through occupancy in terms of 3.2.2 a. and b. above. The application for land
title shall include a statement by the local administrative authorities, preceded by consultation
with the respective communities, for ,the purpose of confirming that the area is free and has no
occupants. Title to local community shall be issued in a name decided upon by the community
and individual men and women who are members of the local comml-~nitymay request individual
titles after partitioning community land.

The right of land use and benefit can be proved by presentationof the respectivetitle; testimonial
proof presented by members, men and women of local communities and by expert evidence and
other means permitted by law.

Among other modes of land transfe4 the Land Law permits the transfer of land by inheritance,
without distinction by gender.

The term of land use and benefit, for the PI-lrposeof economic activities, is subject to a maximum
term of 50 years, renewable for an equal period upon application. The right of land use is not
subject to time lirr~itfor ,thefollowing cases:

 Where the right was acquired by local communitiesthrough occupancy;
 Where it is intended for personal residential purposes and;
 Where national individuals intend it for farr~ilyuse.

3.2.3 LandTenure for Schools

Village government has administrative control over the village land and acts as a liaison between
the government and the inhabitants of the village. Within villages, use of land is controlled by
various committees of village government. At present, the existing schools are operating on their
own land. However, if School Management Boards (SMB's) require more land, extension of their
existing land or new land, they would have to acquire the land through the village government.
According to Article 17 of Chapter IV of the Land Law Regulation, the titling of areas occupied by
communities shall comprise:

 Information and dissemination
  Participatoryappraisal
 The sketch and its descriptive report
  Feedback and;
  Process of demarcation in accordance with the provisions of Articles 20 and 21 of the
Land Law Legislation.


3.3 LIKELY NUMBER AND CATEGORIES OF AFFECTED PERSOIVS

The FASE project activities will comprise of the construction works to new schools and
rehabilitation of existing schools and structures for water supply, sanitation and other school
related facilities. At the time of preparing this resettlement policy framework, details and extent of
the construction works that will take place were not known. Hence the likely numbers of persons
who may be affected and displaced during implementation of the FASE project activities could not
be accurately estimated. However, the Project Affected Persons (PAPS) or the persons, likely to be
displaced econoniically or physically can generally be categorized into the following main groups:


3.3.1 Affected Households

A household will be affected if one or more of its members are affected by the FASE projects
activities. This will be either in form of loss of property, land or access to services or in any other
way by the project activities. Affected household members will include:

    a. Any member of the household whether men, women, children, dependent relatives, friends
    and tenants,

    b. Vulnerable individuals who may be too old or ill to farm or perform any duties with the
    others,

   c. Membersof the household who cannot reside together because of cultural rules, but depend
   on one another for their livelihood,

   d. Members of the household who may not eat together but provide house keeping or
   reproductiveservices, critical to the family's maintenance; and

   e. Other vulnerable people who cannot participate, for physical or cultural reasons; in
   production, consumption, or co-residence.

   f. Disabled people who may be attached to a particular service center.

 In general, the local families live in sets that co-reside sharing production, consumption and
domestic farming services on a regular and continuous basis. However, compensation sho~~ldnot
be limited to people living together to ensure that even those who may not live together with the
rest of the family, for reasons such as polygamy, are include. In addition, all categories of
affected persons such as the elderly, the chronically ill and orphans need to be close to health and
social services for easy access.




3.3.2 UnmarriedWomen or Female Headed Households

Unmarried women may depend on sons, brothers, any member of the family or propertyJbusiness
that might have been left by the deceased husband. Resettlement and compensationshould allow
for such dependent persons.

3.3.3 The Elderly

Elderly persons usually depend on subsistence farming, often benefiting from assistance from
family members, to cultivate the farm. Economic and social welfare of these people may be
compromised, through loss of dependents and loss of farm land, as resettlement takes place, due
to the implementation of the FASE project activities. This group of people ,therefore, should be
adequately compensated to ensure that their means of livelihood is promoted and maintained.


3.3.4 Aids Affected and ChronicallyIll Persons.

High percentages of mostly poor people are either living with the HIV or are terminally ill with
Aids. Some of these people are beneficiaries of assistance from various health programmes.
Resettlement may isolate these people from those that are taking care of them and from the
health programmes that they are now able to access. In the assessment of affected persons for
compensation, under the FASE, this group of people sho~~ldnot be left out.

3.3.5 Orphans

Due to the AIDS pandemic, a large number of children depend on family members or relatives.
Some depend on government health programmes and others engage in small business activities

as well as begging. Resettlement and compensation should adequately provide for this group of
persons in form of paying for their rehabilitation and training to acquire useful vocational skills.
Placing them in children's care homes or children's charities could be one way of adequately
compensatingthem.

3.3.6 Small-Scale Farmers

Small-scale farmers, when moved from places where they have been farming for several years,
may find it difficult to open up new farms in an area that has thick vegetation, grass and trees.
Labour costs for opening up new farms should be given to them through the ResettlementAction
Plan. Prior to opening of new farms, the requirements of the environmental and social
management framework must satisfied.

The categories given above may not cover all types of affected persons. In addition, the
categories are not mutually exclusive. It is important therefore that the FASE project activities
should have well prepared and comprehensive resettlement action plans that would be specific
and comprehensiveenough to benefit all the categories of affected persons, through the following
and other actions as may be appropriate:

   a. Quick decisions and rapid action on the RAPS'to assist the affected personstimely;

   b. Both individual and collective consultation;

   c. The affected persons should be given the opportunity to participate or to work in the project
   activities;
   d. Alternative subsistence farn-~ingplots (mashambas) should be identified and surveyed
   followirlg procedures and standards set forth in the environmental and social management
   fran-~ework;and developed and made available to those losing land;

   e. Compensation for loss of crops and trees should be determined at the time of relocation or
   construction and paid as soon as possible thereafter;

   f. Transitional support, where appropriate, should be given to those moved from their land
   during constr~~ctionand re-establishment;

   g. Resettlement sho~~ldbe aimed at improving their livelihood;

   h. Monitoring of the RAP'S to ensure that resettlement and compensation is benefiting all the
   affected persons to improve their livelihoods, in comparison with the preresettlement
   conditions and;

   i.Technical and financial assistance should be made available to them should they wish to use
   the grievance mechanism.


4.0 STEPSTO BE FOLLOWEDI N LANDACQUISITION AND RESElTLEMENT

FOR THE FASE PROJECTACTIVITIES

Implementation of ,the project activities, (Components 1, 3 and 5), will include construction of
new schools and the expansion/rehabilitation of the existing civil structures. These activities niay
require land acquisition, leading to people's denial or restriction of access to land resources,
services and social amenities. In this case, resettlement action plans, consistent with OP 4.12 and
the resettlement policy framework, must be prepared.

4.1 THE SCREENING PROCESS

Once the list of schools, to be included in the construction programme, has been approved by the
Ministry of Education and Culture, the process for land acquisition and resettlement must start
with the screening process(identification and analysis) of possible and alternative sites for project
implementation. The screening process should include, among other things, a baseline
study/census of impacted persons to determine the level of impact, assets impacted and to
establish the cut-off date.

During screening and indeed during all the other planning and preparatory activities, there must
be adequate consultation and involvement of the local communities and the affected persons.
Specifically, the affected persons must be informed about the intentions to use the earmarked
sites for the school projects. The affected persons must be made aware of:

   a. their options and rights pertaining to resettlement and compensation,

    b. specific technically and economicallyfeasible options and alternatives for resettlement sites

   c. process of and proposed dates for resettlement and compensation

   d. effective compensation rates at full replacement cost for loss of assets and services

   e. proposed measures and costs to maintain or irr~provetheir living standards.

Detailedactivities to take place during the screening of project sites are provided in
Appendix 4.

4.2 STEPS LEADINGTO PREPARATIONOF THE RESElTLEMENTACTION
PLAlV

The screening process is a very important component of several activities that contribute to the
preparation of the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). Preparation and submission of the
Resettlement Action Plan to the relevant authorities comprises of the 10 steps listed below. A flow
chart for these steps is provided in Appendix 7


Step 1
Describe the project activities to be undertaken for the construction /rehabilitation of the schools
and related in,Frastructure.The activities have to be approved by the relevant authorities in MEC.

Step 2
For a new school, the School Management Board must be appointed. For existing schools, it is
assumed that a School Management Board is already in place. The Board should be composed of
at least 40 percent women.

Step 3
The School Management Board will request for suitable land from the Village Administration.

Step 4
Using participatory methods, the Village Administration will consult the local commlanities, within
the school boundary area, to identify the required piece of land, using the screening criteria given
in Appendix 4. At this stage, the cut-off date will be established.

Step 5
I f the School Board determines that the site is suitable, based on the screening criteria, the
allocated landlsite would be acceptable. In this case this process may continue at Step 10.

Step 6
If the site does not meet the screening criteria in Appendix 4, the village administration will be
advised to allocate another piece of landlsite that satisfies the screening criteria. The Local
Government Authority (LGA) may have to assist the School Management Board and the Village
Administration if requested to do so.


Step 7
For situations where resettlement cannot be avoided, OP 4.12 and the Land Law Legislation will
apply. In this case, for each parcel of land that has potential PAPs, the cut-off date established at
Step 4 above will apply.


Step 8
The school committee will request its service providers (including the Cadastre Services) to carry
out a socio economic survey, a census and to collect other information about the land area. This
will be done to identify the potential PAPs; focusing on the individual household and VI-~lnerable
groups and; to calculate their incomes, as the first step in the preparation of the RAP's

Step 9
On completion of the socio-economic study and the baseline census, the School Management
Board will prepare a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for each parcellsite of land that is affected by
resettlement and compensation. There will be as many RAPSas the sub project sites and their
affected parcels of land. The format and contents of the Resettlement Action Plan are presented
in Appendix 5.

The World Bank OP 4.12 article 25 and Annex A provides the basic requirements and contents of
the RAP. The RAP's cover elements in Appendix 5 as may be relevant. Where any element is not
relevant to the School Board's circumstances, it should be noted in the RAP.

Where the impacts on the entire displaced population are minor, (i.e. affected people are not
physically displaced and less than 10% of their productive assets are lost); or fewer than 200
people are displaced, the bank may approve the preparation of an Abbreviated Resettlement
Action Plan (ARAP). The format and contents of the ARAP are given in Appendix 6.

The World Bank must provide final clearance/approval of the RAPs/ARAPs, which should be in
compliance with the local laws, institutional requirements as well as the World Bank Policy
req~rirements.

Step 10
The School Management Board then should forward the RAP'S, together with the modified
designs, to the respective LGAs for screening and approval, in compliance with the local planning
laws and MEC institutional and administrative requirements.

All school construction activities that trigger OP4.12 and resettlement plans would be subjected to
final approval of the World Bank, to ensure compliance with Banks safeguards. Thus ensuring that
land is actually acquired or access to resource is lost, denied, or restricted and that the individual
resettlement plans are consistent with this RPF.

For school construction activities that do not have any resettlement issues and do not trigger
OP4.12, the provisions of this RPF do not apply and therefore the School Management Board is
referred to the Environmental and Social Management Framework ESMF.

4.3.3. PublicConsultationand Participation

Projects involving the community owe their success to commur~ityparticipation and involvement
from planning to implementation. Hence public consultations through participatory rural appraisal
shall be mandatory for all projects requiring land acquisition, compensation and resettlement for
the FASE project activities.

The aim of public consultations at this stage would be to:

  Disseminate concepts for proposed projects wi,th a view to provoke project interest amongst
communities, and allay fears about what might happen when the project is under way.
   Determine commul-~ities'willingness to contribute in kind towards the implementation of the
project, and formulate resettlement options that address the affected people's needs.
  Determine con-~murritywillingness to contribute towards long term maintenance, when and if
required.

5.0 GUIDING PRINCIPLES FORTHE VARIOUS TYPES OF
LANDACQUISITION MECHANISMS

5.1 PREVIOUSAND CURRENT LAND ACQUISITION PRACTICEFOR MEC SCHOOLS

For the existing schools, which were established in the 1960'~~the government of IYozambique
relied on patriotism of the benefciary commur~itiesto provide land. These school projects were
implemented without impediment. At that time, when the government required land for
development projects, chiefs and other land owners pledged their land as part of the villagers'
contribution towards the government initiatives aimed at benefiting the community.

WI-~ilethis land acquisition practice may have had its merits, some landowners were
disadvantaged and made poorer. Mostly, the vulnerable people were disadvantaged because they
did not have a say in the land acquisition process. The situation was aggravated by lack of
capacity on the part of landowner(s) to forward their grievances to those responsible, including
the courts of law to, address their grievances.

Currently in Mozambique, there is growing awareness of the obligations on the part of project
funding agencies, project implementers as well as the public and the government, to ensure fair
practices in land acquisition, payment of compensation and resettlement. This awareness is
demonstrated       by  the    resettlement       and   compensation     plans  developed for the
Mozambique/Secunda Pipeline and the MOZAL aluminium smelting projects. It also became
apparent during the stakeholder consultations that National Planning, Lands, Housing as well as
Local Government and Municipal Authorities are implementing some kind of Abbreviated
Resettlement Plans and ResettlementAction Plans, particularly for large projects.


5.2 PROPOSED LAND ACQUISITION MECHANISM

This Resettlement Policy Framework, for the proposed FASE project activities advocates all
measures to minimize the impacts of physical and economic displacement of people. Therefore
when involuntary acquisition of land is required, the FASE project shall:

    a. initially endeavour to utilize available freehold or public land;

    b. seek voluntarily donated land, suficient for the purposes of the project;

    c. negotiate acquisition of land suitable for implementation of the project activities using
    agreed compensatior~plans and;

    d. only as a last resort, acquire land through involuntary means, following the provisions
    outlined below:

5.2.1 Upon identification of the specific land area to be acquired, the District

District Services of Education, youth and Technology Director (SDEJT) will (through the School
Management Board), initiate negotiations with the Village Administration/Heads and their Chiefs,
or occupier(s) of customary land, registered proprietor or their representatives.

5.2.2 Inter-department cooperation shall be utilized, wherever necessary, to tap on the expertise
and experiences of the various stakeholder institutions.

5.2.3 The School Management Board, in consultation with the Developer, shall prepare actions
plans that comply with the provisions of the framework, for irr~plementationof land acquisition
and resettlement.

5.2.4 PAPSshall be served with notice, clearly explaining the purpose of the acql.~isition,the area
of land required and the owner's right to compensation, in accordance with the existing law.

5.2.5 In the case of customary land, MEC, trough DPEC shall ascertain from the village head, the
Land Register or which ever is applicable, in order to determine the person or persons who have
the right over that land;

5.2.6 In the case of freehold land MEC, trough DPEC shall ascertain the registered owner or
owners of the land to be acquired, from the land registers.

5.2.7 MEC, trough DPEC shall commission a survey on the land to be acquired. Thereafter a plan
shall be prepared and certified to accurately show:

a. land to be acql-~ired;

b. names of the owners and occupiers of that land as far as they can be ascertained; or in the
case of customary land the name of the land owner who is the holder of the right over the land as
ascertained by the local chief and other IBhBme local residents.

c. Identified local community leaders/representativesto assist in the process of land acquisition

d. estimated magnitude of impacts relative to the need for resettlementand/or compensation and
valuation of assets to be compensated for.

e. Financial records to be maintained by the School Management Boards, the LGAs and MEC, to
permit calculation of the final cost of resettlement and compensation per individual or household.
Each individual receiving compensation will have a dossier containing:

  Individual biological information,
  Number of people s/he claims as household or as homestead dependents
  Amount of land available to the individual or household when the dossier is opened.
Each time land is used or acquired by a School Management Board; the dossier will be updated to
determine if the individual or household/homestead is being affected to the point of economic
non-viability and eligibility for compensation/resettlement or its alternatives. These dossiers will
provide the foundation for monitoring and evaluation, as well as documentation of compensation
agreed to, received, and signed for.

f. Additional information will be acquired for individuals eligible for resettlement and/or
compensation. This information will include
  Level of income and of production
  Inventory of material assets and improvements on the land, and
  Debts.
g. proposed compensation offers and draft agreements to be signed by the affected persons and
the developer

h. details of the alternative land (if applicable), inclusive of ancillary support services such as
transport for physical resettlement, provision of housing, provision of crop starter packs and food
SI-~pportor any other kind of assistance as may be relevant.

i.details of resettlementafter-care and assistance, where appropriate

j. availableemploymentopportunitiesfor the PAPsto participatein the project
activities

k. Mechanisms for monitoring and evaluation

5.2.8 A copy of such a plan shall be deposited in the Office of the Chief Executive (Local
Government) and another at the premises of the local chiefs.

5.2.9 Land acquisition and compensation procedures shall ensure that persons, affected either
physically or economically by the project, maintain or improve their livelihood.

5.3 VOLUNTARY LAND CONTRIBUTION WITH COMPENSATIOIV

Voluntary Land Contribution with Compensation refers to a case whereby individual or comm~~nal
owners agree to provide land for project-related activities, in return for negotiated compensation.
The calculation of compensation due to PAPs shall be done according to the entitlement matrix as
presented in Appendix 8.

5.4 VOLUNTARY LAND CONTRIBUTION WITHOUT COMPENSATION

Individuals or groups may choose to voluntarily contribute their land for use in the project without
seeking compensation. Where such donations of land for the school project are made,
arrangements should be made to ascertain that:-

    a. 'The land is indeed voluntarily given and that there is documentation to support the
    voluntary contribution of the land,

    b. The donor is the legitimate owner of such land or pieces of land; and

    c. The donor is fully informed of the nature of the school project and the implications of
    donating the property.

   d. If there is any person(s) using the land, such person(s) are entitled to compensation.

MEC, however, should ensure that the following requirementsare fulfilled:

      an assessment to ascertain that the affected person does not suffer substantial loss,
   affecting his/her economic viability as a result of the donation.
      In the case of Customary Land, confirmation should be made by the Village Administration
   and any beneficiary owners in writing, that the land is free of claims or encroachments from
   any third party or;
      Deeds of donation should be submitted, witnessed by a person authorized under the oaths,
   affidavits and declarations of the Lands Acquisition Act. Declaration of ownership with waiver
   of claims for affected assets should be made.

Any voluntary contribution of land without compensation must be accompanied by a consent
form, which includes the name of the land donor/s, and details of the contribution (type, size,
location, specified period of use etc. as appropriate). This should be signed by the land donor/s,
including the male and female heads of the household involved and/or any person(s) who has
rights over the land.

5.5 :[NVOLLINTARY ACQUISITION OF LAND

5.5.1 Involuntary acquisition of land and assets thereon including resettlement of people, unless
absolutely necessary, shall be avoided. In particular, acquisition of sites of spiritual or
cultural/historical significance shall be avoided.


5.5.2 If such involuntary land acquisition is unavoidable then it shall be minimized to the greatest
extent possible.

5.5.3 Any plans for involuntary acquisitionof land and other assets and provision of compensation
shall be carried out in consultation with the persons to be displaced and Local Government
Authority including local chiefs in such a manner that ensures n-rir~imaldisturbance.

5.5.4 The Project affected persons shall participate throughout the various stages of the planning
and implementation of the land acquisition, compensation and resettlement plans and processes.
Prior to the preparation of the Resettlement Action Plans, the persons to be displaced shall be
informed of the provisions of this Framework and their entitlementsat public meetings.

5.5.5 The Lands Law Legislation and the Public Roads Act set out in detail, the procedures for the
acquisition of customary land and freehold land by Government for the school projects or similar
projects. Categories of losses and the resultant impacts on the livelihoods of the project affected
persons are spelt out in Appendix 3

6.0 ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA AND CONDITIONS FOR DISPLACEMENT OF PROJECT
AFFECTED PERSONS

6.1 WORLD BANK CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING ELIGIBILrrY FOR COMPEIVSATION

According to OP 4.12 of the World Bank, the criteria for determining eligibility for compensation,
resettlement and rehabilitation assistance measures for persons to be splaced, shall be based on
the following:

(a) Persons that have formal legal rights to land, including customary and traditional; and
religious rights recognized under the laws of Mozambique. This class of people includes those
holding leasehold land, freehold land and land held within the family or passed on through
generations.

(b) Persons who do not have formal legal rights to land or assets at the time the census begins;
but have a recognized claim to such land or assets through the national and traditional laws of
Mozambique. This class of people includes those that come from outside the country and have
been given land by the local chief to settle, and/or to occupy in matrimonial society.

(c) Persons who have no recognizable legal right or claim to the land they are occupying, using or
getting their livelihood from. This class of people includes those that settle at a place on semi-
permanent basis, or those settling at a place without any formal grant or authority.

Affected persons classified ~nnderparagraph (a) and (b) shall be provided compensation,
resettlement and rehabilitation assistance for the land, building or fixed assets on the land and
buildings taken by the project. The compensation shall be in accordance with the provisiolis of
this framework and if affected persons occupied the project area prior to the cut-off date (date of
commencement of the Census).

Persons covered under sub-section (c) above are to be provided with resettlement assistance in
lieu of compensation for the land they occupy. In addition, they have to be given the necessary
assistance to satisfy the provisions set out in this policy, if they occupy the project area prior to
the established cut-off date.

All persons in the three sub-sections above are to be provided with compensation for loss of
assets other than land. Consequently, this policy advocates for some kind of assistance to all
affected persons, including squatters or other persons encroaching on the project area illegally,
irrespective of whether they have formal titles, legal rights or not. However, all persons who
encroach on the project area after the cut-off date will not be entitled to any compensation or any
assistance.

Communities including districts, towns, wards and villages permanently losing land, resources
and/or access to assets shall be eligible for compensation. Corr~pensationto comm~.~nitieswill
include that for public toilets, market places, car parks and health posts or other appropriate
compensation chosen by the community. Compensation measures shall ensure that pre-
resettlementsocio-economic status of the communities are restored and maintained.

6.2 PROCEDURESFOR PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION

Compensation payment shall be made in the following ways: -

   (a) By agreement between the government and the landowner(s):

      The government shall offer such sums deemed adequate as compensation, including
     replacement cost for lost assets, to that person; and the person may accept that amount as
     compensation payableto him or her.

      Such sums will be disbursed to the District Administrator (DA) for the district in question for
     payment to the PAPs. The DA shall maintain a record of PAPs, their claims and entitlements.
     After payment of such sums, the DA shall document the name(s) of the DP, the amount of
     compensation and the records of how the compensation was arrived at. A copy of such
     records shall be made available to the government and local chiefs.

    (b) By the court if there is no agreement: -

      If the compensation payable is not agreed upon between the government and the land
     owner, such compensation shall be determined by the Courts of Law.

A claim shall not be entertained after five years from the date of the proclamation; and or 12
months after the execution of the purpose out of which the claim has arisen in respect of any
damage done to the land acquired. Payment of compensation shall strictly be based on results of
the census and shall be recorded in the register at the District Administration Office. A copy shall
be kept by the Village Administrator for record purposes and future reference.


6.3 MOZAMBICAN LEGISLATIONON COMPENSATION

Section 2.2.labove provides the general basis for determining eligibility for compensation in
accordance with the Land Law Legislation of Mozambique and the current practice used by some
of the government institutions. In general, cash compensations are paid based upon market value
of the crops. The affected persons are, in some cases, entitled to new housing on authorized land
under government housing programmes. Under the customary law, land is given in compensation
for land.

 Shortfalls in the Mozambican Legislation on resettlement and compensation have been the basis
for internationally funded projects to refer to internationally acceptable policies, including the
World Bank policies, on resettlementand compensation.

6.4 COMPARISON OF MOZAMBIQLIE LAW AND THE WORLD BANK OP 4.12 REGARDING
COMPENSATION

Appendix 9 provides a comparison between the IYozarr~bicanLaw and the World Bank OP
4.12 with regard to compensation.

Based on this comparison, Appendix 8 presents the proposed entitlement matrix designed to
assist in the compensation process, by bridging the gaps between the requirements under
Mozarr~bicanLaw and the World Bank OP 4.12. Appendix 8 captures the higher of the two
provisions to ensure that PAPSare adequately compensated for loss incurred through the process
of displacement. It is to be noted, however that more comprehensive details should be provided
in the preparation of the RAPS. In view of the foregoing, all land acquisitions by the School
Management Boards for this program would be done subject to the Laws of Mozambique and the
Bank's OP4.12.

6.5 CONDITIONSTO BE FOLLOWED IN DISPLACEMENTOF PEOPLE

Where displacement of people is unavoidable, the following conditions shall be followed:

   (a) The entitlement cut-off date shall be determined and agreed upon in consultation with the
   Village Administration, the School Management Boards and all the stakeholders.

   (b) An estimation of the time likely to be needed to restore their living standards, income
   earning capacity and production levels shall be prepared

   (c) The estimate shall ensure that the condition of the project affected persons shall be
   maintained to at least the ProjectAffected Person's pre-project levels condition;

   (d) The project affected persons shall be provided with development assistance, in addition to
   compensation measures described in above. This shall include assistance for land preparation,
   credit facilities, training, or job opportunities, residential housing, or housing sites; or, as
    required, agricultural sites for which a combination of productive potential, location
   advantages, and other factors shall be at least equivalent to those of the old site. Assistance to
   displaced persons during relocation shall also be provided

   (e) project affected persons who encroach on the project area after the cut off date shall not
    be entitled to compensation, or any resettlement assistance or any other form of rehabilitation
   assistance.

7. NOTIFICATION, VALUATION PROCEDURESAND ENTITLEMENTS

7.1 NOTIFICATION PROCEDURE

MEC or through DPEC at the Provinces, by public notice to be published in the Daily Newspapers,
notify the public of its intention to acquire land earmarked for projects.

A copy of such notice shall be served to each owner, occupier and person or agent having an
interest in the land thereof. The names and addresses of the owners, occupiers and agents shall
be readily ascertainable.

The notice shall state:

(a) Government's proposal to acquire the land;

(b) The public purpose for which the land is wanted;

(c) That the proposal or plan may be inspected at the PIEC or DPEC offices or in the Office of the
District Administration, during working hours;

(d) That any person affected may, by written notice, object to the transaction giving reasons for
doing so, to the PlEC with copies to the Provincial Directorate of Education and Culture or to the
District Administration, within 30 days of the first publication of the Notice.


7.2 VALUATION FOR STATE OWNED LAND

The land asset types identified 1.1nderMozambican Law are:

  State Land not within the jurisdiction of a village
  Village Land, including customary rights of villagers.

State owned land may be allocated free or sold on a commercial basis to the School Management
Board by 'the Minister responsiblefor land administration. For cases where the state-owned land is
being used by the public (for instance for grazing, settling or otherwise), the School Management
Board would be expected to pay compensation. Privately owned property, would have to be
compensated for at the market value. The general guiding principle is that whoever was using the
land to be acquired would be provided alternative land of equal size and quality.


7.3 VALUATION FOR CUSTOMARY LAND

The FASE project will often require the use of village land for its project activities. In this case,
valuation methods for the affected land and assets should conform to customary laws and land
assets would be valued and compensated for according to the following guidelines:

  The School Management Boards would compensate for assets and investments (including labor,
crops, buildings, and other improvements) according to the provisionsof the resettlementplan.
   Compensation rates would be replacement cost, as of the date that the replacement is to be
provided or at the date of project identification, whichever is higher.
  The market prices for cash crops would have to be determined.
  Eligibility for compensation would not be valid for new persons occupying/using the project sites
after the cut-off date, in compliance with this policy.

  For community land held under customary law, the permanent loss of any such land will be
covered by community compensation, which will only be in-kind. However, since the bank policy
on resettlement, OP4.12, makes no distinction between statute and customary rights, a
customary land owner, or a user of state owned land will be compensated for land, assets,
investments including loss of access, at replacement costs, at the time of the loss or at the time of
project identification, whichever is higher.


7.4 CALCULATIONS FOR COIYPEIVSATION PAYMENTSAND RELATEDCONSIDERATIONS

7.4.1 General Considerations

Individual and household compensation will be made in kind and/or through assistance. Although
the type of compensation may be an individual's choice, compensation in kind will be preferred, if
,theloss amounts to more than 20/0 of the total loss of subsistence assets.

For cash payments, compensation will be calculated in Mozambican currency adjusted for
inflation. For compensation in kind, items such as land, houses, other buildings, building
materials, seedlings, agricult~.~ralinputs and financial credits for equipment may be included.
Assistance may include moving allowance, transportation and labour.

Making cash payments raises issues regarding inflation and security that have to be considered.
Cash payments must allow for inflationary adjustments of compensation values. Security, for
people who will be receiving cash compensation payments will need to be addressed by the local
administration. These are some of the reasons why compensation in-kind would be preferred. For
payment of compensation in-kind, the time and new location will have to be decided and agreed
upon by each recipient, in consultation with the School Management Boards and the Local
GovernmentAuthorities.

7.4.2 Compensationfor Land

Compensation for land is aimed at providing for loss of crop and the labour used to cultivate the
crop. The term "Land" refers to an area or homestead in cultivation, being prepared for
cultivation, or cultivated during the last agricultural season. This definition recognizes that the
biggest investment a farmer makes in producing a crop is his or her labor. As a result,
compensation relating to land will cover the market price of labour invested, as well as the
replacementcost of the crop lost.

7.4.3 Land measurement

The unit of measurement for land would be that, which is used and understood by the affected
persons. Therefore if a traditional unit of measurement exists in the rural areas, that unit shall be
used. If a traditional unit of measurement does not exist, it is recommended that land should be
measured in meters or any other internationallyaccepted unit of measurement. In such cases, the
unit that is-being used must be explained to the affected farmers/users.

The unit of measurement must be easily related to recognizable land features that the
communities are familiar with, such as relative location of trees, stumps and other fixed features
on the sites. Understanding the unit of meas[-~rementens[-iresthat the affected person is able to
verify his/her own size of land that is being lost. This maintains transparency in the process and
avoids subsequent accusations for wrong measl-~rementsor miscalc~.~lationof land areas.

7.4.4 Determinationof Crop Compensation Rates

Prevailing prices for cash crops would have to be determined. Each type of crop is to be
compensated for, using the same rate across the subprojects. This rate should incorporate the
value for the crop and the value for the labor invested in preparing new land. Calculating
compensation using one rate guarantees uniformity and allows anyone to measure the area of
land for which compensation is due and to multiply the area by the one rate known to all. This
approach also allows assignment of values to previous year's land (land in which a farmer has
already invested labor) and land that has been planted but crops may have not yet sprouted.
Further, it avoids contention over crop density and quality of mixed cropping.

7.4.5 Compensation Ratesfor Labour

The value of labor invested in preparing agricultural land will be compensated for at the average
wage in the community for the same period of time. The labor cost for preparing replacement
land is calculated on what it would cost a farmer to create a replacement farm land. This value is
found by adding together the average costs of clearing, ploughing, sowing, weeding twice, and
harvesting the crop.

All agricultural labor activities are included for two reasons. The first reason is to ensure
uniformity. All land labor will be compensated for at the same rate. Secondly, it is difficult to
forecast when, during the growing season, a farmer might need to give up his/her land. Thus, the
land compensation covers all investmentsthat a farmer will make.

Labor costs will be paid in Mozambican Meticais at the prevailing market rates. An example of a
schedule for calculation of labor costs is given in Appendix 10.


The rate used for land compensation is to be updated to reflect values at the time compensation
is paid. An example that derives the total value for a one hectare piece of land, from the value of
the crops on the land and the value of labor invested in preparing a replacement land is given in
Appendix 11.

In certain cases, assistance may be provided to land users, in addition to compensation
payments. For example, if a farmer is notified that his/her land is needed after the agriculturally
critical date (critical date, may be different in parts of Mozambique and across climate zones)
when s/he will no longer have enough time to prepare another piece of land, assistance will be
provided in form of labor intensive village hire, or mechanized clearing so that replacement land
will be ready by the sowing dates. The farmer will still continue to receive his/her cash
compensation so that s/he can pay for sowing, weeding and harvesting.

7.4.6 Compensation for Buildingsand Structures

Corr~pensationfor buildivg and structures will be paid by replacing huts, houses, farm
outbuildings, latrines and fences. Any homes lost will be rebuilt on the acquired replacement land.
However cash compensation would be available as a preferred option for struct~~ressuch as extra
buildings lost, that are not the main house or house in which someone is living. The applicable
replacement costs for construction materials will be used to calcl- late the values. Alternatively,
compensation will be paid in-kind for the replacement cost without depreciation of the structure.
The project will survey and update constr~~ctionmaterial prices on an ongoing basis.

Compensation will be made for structures that are abandoned because of relocation, or
resettlement of an individual or household, or structures that are damaged directly by
construction activities. Replacementvalues will be based on:

  Drawings of individual's house and all its related structures and support services,
  Average replacement costs of different types of household buildings and structures based on
information on the quantity and type of materials used for construction (e.g. bricks, rafters,
bundles of straw, doors etc.),
  Prices of these items collected in different local markets,
  Costs for transportation and delivery of these items to acquired/replacement land or building
site,
  Estimatesof construction of new buildings including labor required.

An example to demonstratethe calculation of compensationfor buildings is give in Appendix
12

7.4.7 Compensation for Sacred Sites

This policy does not provide for compensation for the use of land defined to be cultural property.
This property is also not covered by the Banks Safeguard Policy OP 4.11.

Sacred sites include but are not restricted to: altars, initiation centers, ritual sites, tombs and
cemeteries. Sacred sites include such sites or places/features that are accepted by local laws
including customary practice, tradition and culture as sacred.
To avoild any possible conflicts between individuals and/or communities, homesteads and village
government, the use of sacred sites for any project activities is not permitted under the FASE.

7.4.8 Compensationfor vegetablegardensand beehives

Vegetable are planted for daily use. Until a replacement garden can be harvested, the family
displaced (economically or physically) as a result of the project will have to purchase these items
on the market. The replacement costs therefore, will be that calculated to be the average amount
an average town dweller spends on buying these items for one year, froni the local market.

Beehives are placed in various locations by some individuals that specialize in honey gathering. If
such beehives are disturbed by the project activities, or access to them is denied, beekeepers may
have to move them. The bees will eventually adapt to the new locations. Beekeepers wo~rldbe
compensated for the value of one season's income from honey, for each beehive that is moved
and for any reasonable costs associated with moving the hive.

7.4.9 Compensationfor Horticultural, Floriculturaland Fruittrees

Trees are primarily important as a socrrce of:

  Subsistence food for families
  Cash that contributes to the local and export economy
  Petty market income in some areas and,
  Shade (in the case of cashew, mango and some coconut trees)
  Traditional medicinal value

Where plants and trees exist on the affected land, the example given in Appendix 13, on Mango
trees will serve as a guide on how to value fruit trees and other trees of nutritional, medicinal and
other significant economic value. Given their significance to the local subsistence economy, fruit
trees will be compensated on a combined replacement value. Fruit trees such as coconut and
cashew trees commonly used for commercial purposes in Mozambique will be compensated at
replacement value based on historical production statistics. If households are resettled, they will
be compensated for the labor invested in the trees they leave behind. This assumes that they will
continue to own the trees left behind under customary rights. It is not unconimon for individuals
to own trees in other villages in which they formally lived and, in some cases, to continue to
harvest fruit from those trees for subsistence purposes and/or sale to traders. I f a
household/individuaI chooses to transfer ownership of the trees, transfer costs will be paid in
addition to labor costs. The compensation rate will be based on information obtained from the
socio-economic surveys. Based on this information, a compensation schedule for cashew,
coconut, guava, mango and other trees can be developed, incorporating the following criteria:

  Replace subsistence fruit (e.g. coconut, cashew, guava or mango) production yields as quickly
as possible.
  Provide subsistence farmers with trees to extend the number of months of the year during
which the fruits (e.g. guavas/mangoes) are produced and can be harvested as a supplemental
source of food for their families during their "hunger season".
  Provide farmers with the opportunity to derive alternative income from trees bearing more
valuable fruits at off-season periods.

 Provide cash payments to farmers to replace pre-project income derived from the sale of excess
guava or mango produdion until replacementtrees producethe equivalent (or more) in projected
cash income.
No compensation will be paid for minor pruning of trees. Compensation for removal of limbs will
be prorated on the basis of the number of square nietres of surface area removed. The total
surface area of the tree will be calculated using the following formula: (112 diameter of canopy)2
x 3.14.

The corr~pensationschedule in Appendix 13 is based on providing a combination of new grafted
and local trees to farmers, as well as cash payments to offset lost yearly income.

7.4.10 Other Domestic Fruitand ShadeTrees

These trees have recognized local market values, depending upon the species and age.
Compensation for wild trees "owned" by individuals, who are located in lands as defined in this
policy, will be paid. Wild, productive trees belong to the community when they appear in the bush
as opposed to a fallow land. These trees will be compensated for under the umbrella of the village
or cornm~lnitycompensation.

No compensation will be paid for minor pruning of trees. Compensation for removal of limbs will
be prorated on the basis of the number of square metres of surface area removed. The total
surface area of the tree will be calculated using the following formula as given for fruit trees.

7.5 ENTITLEMENTSFOR COMPENSATION

Entitlements for compensation shall be based on the eligibility criteria and the various categories
of losses identified in the desk studies and field consultations. The matrix in Appendix 8 will be
used in the settlement of claims for compensation for lost assets of PAPS based on the
aforementioned principles and legal framework where land is involuntarily taken. Urlless otherwise
indicated, payment of compensation and other entitlements and the extension of assistance will
be given to PAP households and not individuals.

In dealing with compensation, preference shall be given to land based resettlement strategies for
Project Affected Persons whose livelihoods are land-based. I f land is not the preferred option for
the project affected persons, the provision of land would adversely affect the sustainability of the
project. Where sufficient land is not available at a reasonable price, non-land based options built
on opportunities for employment or self re-employment should be provided in addition to cash
compensation for land and other assets lost. However the lack of land shall be documented and
justified.

In addition to these entitlements, households who are found in diffic~lltsituations and are at
greater risk of impoverishment (i.e. widowed household heads, households without employment,
single parent households etc) as identified by the census will be provided with appropriate
assistance by the project through the School Management Boards. The District Administration
shall furnish MEC with the necessary information. Assistance may be in form of food, temporally
accommodation, medicine subsidy, employment referrals or priority employment in project
activities. The assistance is meant to help them cope with the displacementcaused by the project.

8. PROCEDURE FOR DELIVERYOF COMPENSATION

Compensation and resettlement activities will be funded like any other project activity eligible
under the FASE. Funding would be processed and effected through the School Management
Board's financial processing arrangements.

The compensation process, which will involve several steps, would be in accordance with the
individual School Management Board's Resettlement and Compensation Plans and w o ~ ~ lbe          d
delivered as follows:

8.1 CONSULTATIONAND PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

Consultation and public participation with the PAPSwill initiate the compensation process. This
consultation and public participationwill be part of an ongoing process that would have started at
the planning stage; and would have continued through the technical design inception and
development, land selection and screening stages. This trend will ensure that all affected
individuals and householdsare well informed and adequately involved in the entire process.

8.2 NOTLFICATION OF LAND RESOURCE HOLDERS

Those who hold title to the land resources would be informed through the process in 7.1 above.
Where there are clearly no identified owners or users, the respective Regional Lands Board,
District Administration and the Traditional Leaders will notify the community leaders and
representatives to help to identify and locate the land users. These leaders and representatives
will also be charged with the responsibility to notify their members about the established cut-off
date and its significance. The user(s) will be informed through both formal notification in writing
and by verbal notification delivered in the in the presence of the community leaders or their
representatives. In addition, representatives of traditional leaders, religious leaders, other elders
and individuals who control pastoral routes, fishing areas, indigenous tress, or beehives and
hunting areas will ascertain localities of these sensitive areas.

8.3 DOCUMENTATIONOF HOLDINGS AND ASSETS

The Provincial Lands Board, the District Administration and Traditional Leaders and officials of the
School Management Board will arrange meetings with affected individuals to discuss the
compensation process. For each individual or household affected, officials of the School
Management Board will complete a compensation dossier containing necessary personal
information on:

    a. the affected party including household members,
    b. total land holdings,
    c. inventory of assets affected, and
    d. information for monitoring their future situation.

This information will be confirmed and witnessed by the Provincial Lands Board, District
Administration and Traditional Leaders or their representatives. The dossiers will be kept current
and will include documentation of pieces of land that are to be surrendered. All claims and assets
will be documented in writing. Such baseline information is necessary for monitoring.

8.4 COMPLAINTSAND GRIEVANCES MECHANISMS

8.4.1Objections

At the time that the individual resettlement plans are approved and individual corr~pensation
contracts are signed, affected individuals and households would have been informed of the
process for expressing dissatisfaction and to seek redress. The grievance procedure will be simple
and will be administered as far as possible, at local levels to facilitate access by PAPS.

The School Management Board being a party to the contract wo~lldnot be the best office to
receive, handle and rule on disputes. Therefore, all grievances concerning non-fulfilment of
contracts, levels of compensation, or seizure of assets withol~tcompensation sho~~ldbe addressed
to the Village Government assisted by the District Administration.

All attempts should be made to settle, grievances amicably. Those seeking redress and wishing to
state grievances would do so by notifying their Village Government. 'The Village Government will
inform and cons~~ltwith the School Management Board and the LGAs to determine validity of
claims. I f valid, the Village Government will notify the complainant and s/he will be assisted. I f the
complainant's claim is rejected, the matter shall be brought before the LGA's for settlement. The
decision, of the LGAs would be final and all such decisions must be reached within a full growing
season after the complaint is lodged.

It has to be noted that in the local communities, people take time to decide to complain when
aggrieved. Therefore, the grievance procedures will give people up to the end of the next full
agricultural season, after surrendering their assets, to allow for enough time to present their
cases.

The grievance redress mechanisms is designed with the objective of solving disputes at the
earliest possible time, which will be in the interest of all parties concerned and therefore, it
implicitly discourages referring such matters to the Tribunal for resolution.

Compensation and resettlement plans (contracts) will be binding under statute, and will recognize
that customary law is the law that governs land administration and tenure in the rural/village
areas. This is the law that most Mozambicans living in these areas, are used to and understand.

All objections to land acquisition shall be made in writing, to the MEC or to DPEC within 20 days
after the public notice; or through a formal complaint lodged via the Traditional Authority and
District Administration.

The local chiefs shall maintain records where grievances and complaints, including minutes of
discussions, recommendations and resolutions made, will be recorded.

8.4.2 Consensus, Negotiationsand Conflict Resolution

Consensus and negotiation are central to addressing grievances. In generally, people are aware of
their rights, their commitments to the country as citizens and their allegiance to village and faniily
issues. For this reason, many Government funded community projects have been implemented
without obstacles from project affected persons.

However some projects have been known to stall due to delays in disbursement of compensation.
Prior negotiations, between Government representatives and project beneficiaries, are therefore
crucial to the success or failure of the project. As a guiding principle err~phasisshould be placed
on simplicity and proxirrrity of the conflict resolution mechanisms to the affected persons and the
following should be noted:

(a) Negotiation and agreement by consensus will provide the best avenue to resolving any
grievances expressed by the individual land owners or households affected by community
projects. These grievances shall be channelled through the Local Chiefs.

(b) MEC should ensure that any consensus is achieved freely by the main parties involved. 'The
general public shol-~ldbe advised clearly by the MEC or the relevant government representativeas
to who is responsible for the activity and the procedure for handling grievances or compensation
claims.

(c) Grievances should be addressed during the verification and appraisal process. I f a suitable
solution is not found, the School Management Board shall defer consent of the project and the
concerned project activities shall not be allowed to proceed.

(d) Grievances for which solutions have not been found should be referred back to the community
for discussion where the Local Chiefs and District Administration will redress the matter of concern
to assist the claimants. The mediation process will be implemented according to traditional
methods of mediation/conflict resolution. The resolution will then be documented on the relevant
consent forms and verified.

(e) I f an agreement cannot be reached at community level the aggrieved party or parties shall
raise their concerns with the MEC team who shall refer them to the respective District
Administration, within 20 days of the verification meeting. Grievances that cannot be resolved at
the district level shall be officially referred to DIPLAC-CEE or DPEC with copies to District
Administration. Should grievances remain unresolved at this level, they can be referred to a court
of law.

8.5 AGREEMENT ON COMPENSATION AND PREPARATION OF CONTRACTS

All types of compensation are to be clearly explained to the individual and households involved.
The respective School Management Board will draw up a contract listing all property and land
being surrendered; and the types of compensation (cash and/or in-kind) selected and agreed
upon. Those selecting in-kind compensation will sign an agreement form, which will be witnessed

by the Village Management Committees' Representative. The compensation contract and the
grievance redress mechanisms shall be read aloud in the presence of the affected party and the
representative of the Provincial Lands Board, District Administration and the Traditional Leaders,
prior to signing.

8.6 COMMUNITY COMPENSATIONPAYMENTS

Community compensation will be paid in-kind only for a community as a whole. This will be in the
form of reconstruction of the facility to at least the same or better standard and as required by
local planning regulation. Examples of community compensation include:
a. School Building (public or religious)

    b. Public Toilets
    c. Well or Purr~p
    d. Market Place
    e. Road
    f. Storage warehouse.

Comm~~nitycompensation may in itself require land-take and people may be affected thereby
requiring compensation.

All handing over of property such as land and buildings and compensation payments will be made
in the presence of the affected party, the traditional leaders and their officials; and
representativesof the local government administration.

9. BUDGETARYIMPLICATIONSAND FUNDING

Funds for implementing inventory assessments as well as land acquisition and resettlement action
plans will be provided by MEC. In general, the cost burden of compensation will be borne by the
executing agencies such as government ministries, NGO's and the private service providers as
may be appropriate.

The estimate of the overall cost of resettlement and compensation would be deterrr~inedduring
the socio-economic study. MEC would have to finance the resettlement compensation because
they are the parties who would be impacting on the livelihoods. Disbursements based on
budgetary requirements, established by the RAPSin consultation with PAPSand local chiefs, will
made through the relevant District Adrninistration.

At this stage, it is not possible to estimate the likely number of people who may be affected. This
is because the technical designs and details have not yet been developed and the land needs
have not yet been identified. When this information is available and after the conclusion of the
site specific socio-economic study, information on specific impacts, individual and household
incomes and numbers of affected people and other demographic data would be available. Such
information will facilitate the preparation of a detailed and accurate budget for resettlement and
compensation.

The School Management Board will prepare the resettlement budget and will finance this budget
through the administrative and financial management rules and manuals like any other activity
eligible for payment under the FASE. This budget will be subject to the approval by MEC.

At this stage however, all that can be reasonably and meaningfully prepared is an indicative
comprehensive budget, highlighting key elements that the budget must contain. Such an
indicative comprehensive compensation budget is provided in Appendix 14.

10.INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS

10.1 INSrrrUTIONALARRANGEMENTS

The Ministry of Education and Culture (PIEC) through DIPLAC-CEE, shall make every effort to
ensure that no land is acquired against the will of the person(s), exercising rights over their land.
I n the event that land acquisition is unavoidable, it shall be done according to the process
outlined in this framework.

The overall responsibility for the implementation of this Framework is under the DIPLAC-CEE. The
DIPLAC-CEE, will ensure that the framework is publicly disseminatedand that project staff has the
requisite skills and knowledge and, where necessary, appropriate training to implement the
framework should be provided.

The District Administration (including District Services of Education, youth and Technology) shall
take responsibility for implementation of the Framework at District Level, with assistance from
other line district directors in the affected ministries, which will include the Ministry of Lands and
Valuation, the Ministry of Water Development, the Ministry of Housing, the Ministry of Local
Government, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. The District Administration
will be responsible for monitoring the resettlement and compensation plans drawn up for the
PAPs.

The District Administration, with assistance from the District Services of Education Youth and
Technology will assl.lme the role of implementation of the plans, resettlement and compensation.
They will work closely with the Village Government to ensure that the resettlement and
compensation contracts signed by PAPs are timely executed and that the interests of the PAPs are
protected. The District Administration will also be responsible for collection of data for updating
the database.

The District Administration must take into account other World Bank related safeguard policies
such as OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) OPN 11.03 (Cultural Property), OP/BP 4.10
(Indigenous Peoples), OP 4.36 (Forestry) and OP 4.04 (Natural Habitats), in implementing the
provisions of this framework.

NGOs may, where appropriate and necessary, be periodically engaged for the independent
monitoring of the resettlement and compensation plans and shall report any deviations from the
planned activities to DIPLAC-CEE. The NGO's shall be responsible for funding their activities
except for cases where a special contract agreement has been entered into with the client.

All the agencies above will need to be oriented to the elenients of the RPF and the resulting RAPS,
and their implementation and monitoring. The Government of Mozarr~biquewill make available
resources for this purpose. A detailed budget of the implementation of the RAP will include this
training activity.

10.2 LAND ACQUISITION AND RESE-TTLEMENTPROCESS IMPLEMENTATION

10.2.1 Resettlement Action Plans

DIPLAC-CEE shall make sure that following the census, a comprehensive Resettlement Action Plan
is prepared for each project activity that triggers resettlement.

In this undertaking, the DIPLAC-CEE may en- ploy the mir~istryresponsible for lands or a private
consultant to provide valuation services required for the RAPS.This assignment shall be financed
by the PIEC.

In case of involuntary resettlement, approval of the new pieces of land to be used for
resettlementshall be sought from the Government in cons~.~ltationwith local communities.

The process of preparing the resettlement action plans, in line with the requirements of Section
5.2.7 above, will involvethe following: -

   Establishment of the cut of date and carrying out of a census to identify project affected
persons
  The census will generate information about the Project affected persons, their entitlements
regarding compensation, resettlement and rehabilitationassistance as required;
  Dist~~rbances,especially those affecting income-earning activities, should be properly recorded
for the sake of compensation or replacement in case of
resettlement.
   Based on the census and inventory of losses, and in consultation with the Project affected
persons, a time phased action plan with a budget for provision of compensation, resettlement,
and other assistance as required, shall be prepared.

To ensure transparency of procedures, Project affected persons shall be informed of the method
of valuation employed to assess their assets. All payments of Compensation, Resettlement
Assistance and Rehabilitation Assistance, as the case may be, shall be made in the presence of
the Project Affected Person in question and the local chiefs.

10.2.2 Public Consultationand Participation

Public consultation and participation are essential because they afford potential PAPs the
opportunity to contribute to both the design and implementation of the program activi,ties.This
reduces the likelihood for conflicts between and among PAPs and with the management
committees.

In recognition of this, particular attention should be paid to public consultation with potentially
affected individuals, households and homesteads (including host communities) when resettlement
and compensation concerns are involved.

As a matter of strategy, public consultation should be an on-going activity taking place throughout
the entire project cycle. Hence, public consultation should take place during the:

  project inception and planning
  screening process
  socioeconomic study,
  preparation of the School Development Plans
  resettlement and compensation planning
  drafting and readinglsigning of the compensationcontracts.
  payment of compensations
  resettlement activities and
  implementation of after-project community support activities

Public participation and consultation should take place through meetings, radio programs, request
for written proposals/comments, completion of questionnaires/application forms, public readings
and explanations of the project ideas and requirements. Public documents should be made
available in appropriate languages at the I\ational, local and homestead levels and at SI-litable
locations including the official residences/offices of Village Governments and village elders. Public
consultation measures should take into account the low literacy levels prevalent in the rural
communities, by allowing enough time for discussions, consultations, questions, and feedback.

10.2.3 Time Frames

The following key timeframes shall apply unless otherwise agreed between the MEC and the
recipient; provided however, that no agreement to waive the timeframes shall adversely affect the
rights or interests of Project affected persons under this Framework:

  The inventory shall be completed at most four months prior to the commencement of work.
   The Resettlement Plan shall be submitted to DIPLAC-CEE for approval immediately after
completion of inventory
  Compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation activities shall only commence after the MEC and
the persons to be displaced have accepted the Resettlement Plan.

Comprehensive time frames shall be drawn up and agreed upon by all parties includingthe PAPs.

Compensation payments for acquired land and affected assets, resettlement of households and
documentation/validation of voluntary land donations, as described above, must be completed as
a condition for taking away of land and before commencement of the civil works under the
project.

Adequate time and attention should be allowed for consultation of both the displaced and host
communities before bringing in the new comers. The actual length of time will depend on the
extent of the resettlement and compensation and will have to be agreed upon by all parties


10.3 LINKlNG RESETI-LEMENTIMPLEMENTATIONTO CIVIL WORKS

PAPs will need to be compensated, in accordance with this Resettlement Policy Framework, before
any project activity is implemented.

For activities involving land acquisition or loss, denial or restriction to access of resources, it is
required that provisions be made, for compensation and for other assistance required for
relocation, prior to displacement. The assistance includes provision and preparation of
resettlement sites with adequate facilities.

In particular, land and related assets may be taken away only after corrlpensation has been paid
and resettlement sites and moving allowances have been provided to PAPs. For project activities
requiring relocation or resulting in loss of shelter, the resettlement policy further requires that
measures to assist the project affected persons are implemented in accordance wi,ththe individual
Resettlement Action Plans (RAPS).

In the Implementation Schedule of each RAP (Section 17 of appendix 5) precise details on
resettlement and corrlpensation must be provided. Similarly, the ARAP section on Arrangements
for IYonitoring and Implementation (Section 5 of Appendix 6) must provide a schedule for details
on resettlement and compensation. In both of these sections, the schedule for the
implementation of activities, as agreed between the School Management Board and the PAPs
must include:

 target dates for start and completion of civil works,
 timetables for transfers of completed civil works to PAPs,
 dates of possession of land that PAPs are using (this date must be after transfer date
for completed civil works to PAPs and for payments of all compensation) and,
  how these activities are linked to the implementation of the overall sub project.

When approving recommendations for resettlement during screening, LGAs must confirm that the
resettlement plans contain acceptable measures that link resettlement activity to civil works, in
compliance with this policy. Proper timing and coordination of the civil works should ensure that
no PAP or household wo~.~ldbe displaced (economically or physically) due to civil works activity,
before compensation is paid and before resettlement sites with adequate facilities are prepared
and made available to the affected individual or homestead. Once the resettlement plan is
approved by the local and national authorities, it should be sent to the LGA, Provincial and
National MEC offices for final review and verification.

1 RESETTLEMENT AND COMPENSATION IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
PLANS

11.1IMPLEMENTATIONPLAN

In order to effectively implement the resettlement and compensation activities, there will be need
to prepare an implementation plan. The School Management Board, in consultation with the PAPs,
the Village Government and the District Administration, should prepare the implementation plan.

The plan should provide a detailed list of activities to be implemented during all the stages of
planning, compensation, resettlement and after resettlement. In addition, the activities listed in
the plan should have agreed time frames and persons/institutions responsible for implementing
the activities. An example of a Resettlement and Compensation implementation Plan is given in
Appendix 15.

The land acquisition and resettlement implementation plan shall be supervised by the School
Management Board (SMB), based at the district. The SMB shall follow the implementation plan
and record their observations for reporting regularly to DIPLAC-CEE. Copies of their report will be
sent to the District Administration in the respective districts and to the parent ministry. The report
shall include:

   (a) Confirmation and verification that all the baseline information has been captured and that
   the valuation of assets and provision of compensation and other entitlements have been
   carried out in accordance with this framework;

   (b) Verification and follow-up meetings to ensure that resources for implementation of the
   resettlement and compensation plan are timely provided by the MEC in accordance with
   respective agreed plans;

   (c) Records of all grievances and resolutions made, for reference as well as for ensuring that
   they are dealt with on time; and

   (d) Records of people compensated or resettled, with confirmation that the resettlement plans
   have been fully implementedto the satisfaction of the PAPs.

Reporting on the implementation of the Land Acquisition and Compensation Plan will form part of
the quarterly reporting by the school management team to DIPLAC-CEE.

Some compensation procedures and rates may require review and revision during the program
cycle. The School Management Boards, the District Administration and DIPLAC-CEE, will
implement the changes by referring to the Monitoring and Evaluation manuals of the program.
Completing these manuals will require feed back ,From:

  Indicators monitored by the local and regional goverr~nientsto determine whether goals are
being met, and

 grievances statistics of the local community expressing dissatisfaction about the implementation
of compensation and resettlement activities.

11.2 MONITORINGPLAN

In order to assess whether the goals of the resettlement and compensation plan are met, a
monitoring plan will be required. This monitoring plan will indicate parameters to be monitored,
institute monitoring milestones and provide resources including responsible persons or
institutions, necessary to carry out the monitoringactivities.

The arrangements for monitoring the resettlenient and compensation activities wo1.11dfit the
overall monitoring programme of the entire FASE, which would fall under the overall responsibility
of DIPLAC-CEE. DIPLAC-CEEwill institute an admil-~istrativereporting system that:

   (a) alerts project authorities to the necessity for land acquisition in the project activities design
   and tect~rricalspecifications;

   (b) provides timely information about the asset valuation and negotiation process,

    (c) reports any grievances that require resolution,

    (d) documents timely completion of project resettlement obligations (i.e. payment of the
   agreed-upon sums, construction of new structures, etc.) for all permanent and temporary
    loses, as well as unanticipated, additional construction damage.

    (e) updates the database with respect to changes that occur on the ground as resettlement
    and compensation activities are being implemented.

Annual evaluations will be made in order to determine whether the PAPs have been paid in full
and before implementation of the sub project activities; and whether the PAPs enjoy the same or
higher standard of living than before.

A number of objectively verifiable indicators ( 0 V 1's) shall be used to monitor the impacts of the
compensation and resettlement activities. These indicators will be targeted at quantitatively
measuring the physical and socio-economic status of the PAPs, to determine and guide
improvement in their social wellbeing. Therefore, monitoring indicators to be used for different
RAPSor ARAPs will have to be developed to respond to specifc site conditions. As a general
guide, Appendix 16 provides a sample of monitoring indicators.

This framework is suggesting that where appropriate and where it is determined to be cost
effective, the ofice of the District Administration is structured to host the M&E component of the
project/program. This would take the form of giving the districts the mandate to carry out
independent monitoring of the implementation of the resettlement and compensation plans at
periodic intervals of quarterly or half yearly (as circumstances dictate) during the program life.
Their report would then be sent to the LGAs and DIPLAC-CEE, and the School Management
Boards and become part of the official documents of the program.

Independent monitoring can be arranged from time to time to validate the programme
implementation. During the consultations held for the study, it was established that an Advocacy
NGO, by the name of Livaningo has been involved in independent monitoring of the compensation
and resettlement activities of Sasol and MOZAL. Involving such type of an NGO to carry out
independent monitoring will enhance the openness and transparency of the compensation and
resettlement programme. MEC would have to approve participation of NGOrs in independent
monitoring activities, depending on their requirements. Participation of NGOrs, as was the case in
the example given above, would be funded by the NGOrsthemselves, using their own resources;
unless under special funding and participation arrangements to be approved by PlEC

APPENDIX 1 - Institutions of MEC/DIPLAC Proposed for Construction and Rehabilitation under FASE




1   INorth     ICabo Delgado INew Construction  IMueda Secondary School         ISecondary
                                                                                 Education                 locksmithing, ~ & i c u ~ G r e
                                                                                                           Construction, Carpentry, ,
                                                                                                           locksmithing, Agriculture


    1North                                                                                                I
               (Niassa        New Construction   Macalodje Secondary School      Secondary      ESGI
                                                                                 Education

   1 North     INiassa        New Construction   Lichinga Secondary School       Secondary      ESGI
                                                                                (Education




  I  North     /Nam~ula      IRehabilitation    IMarere Teachers Training
                                                                        -       1Teachers
                                                 Institute (IFP)                 Training




               I
     Center                   New Construction   Tsangano Secondary School       Secondary      ESGI
                                                                                 Education
                Tete



     Center     Manica        New Construction   Machaze Technical and           Technical and             Construction, Carpentry,
                                                 Professional School             Professional              Locksmithing and Agriculture
                                                                                (Education


               I
     Center                   Rehabilitation     Inhamizua Teachers Training     Teachers       Medium    I
                                                 Institutc (IFP)                 Training

-
3
      South       Maputo         Construction and         Salamanga Secondary School  Secondary    I,SC;I
                                 Requal~fication                                      Education




                               I                   h l l




Note: Activities presented in this appendix refers to the projects for the period 2008. Future projects not known at the time of preparation of
the RPF.

APPENDIX        2      -     T a b l e  for      P r i c e s  U s e d   to     Compensate  f o r
                            L o s s of T r e e s




All prices are in dollars at the exchange rate of 24, 500 Meticais to the Dollar

New and small refer to trees that are 0-1 years old;
Medium refers to trees that are 1-5years old;
Large refers to trees that are above 5 years old.

 APPENDIX 3       - Categories of losses and their impacts on p r o j e c t
                     a f e c t e d persons


 Loss Category                               SocialImpacts
 Relocation                                  Impoverishment,disturbance of production
                                             systems, loss of sourcesof income, loss or
                                             weakening of community system and social
                                             networks, loss of access to social amenities such
                                             as hospitals and schools,water; dispersion of
                                             lun groups, loss of cultural identity and
                                             traditional authority, loss or reduction of
                                             potential for mutual help, emotional stress.

                                             Impoverishment,loss of sources of income and
                                             means of livelihood,Loss of assets or access to
                                             assets, increased time to access resources
1Alienation due to neighbors being         I Impoverishment,weakening of community
 relocated                                   systemsand social networks, loss of mutual
                                             help and community support ,loss of traditional
                                             authority,Loss of identity and cultural survival,



                                             reduced time and access to resources such as
                                             hospitals and schools,water, increased time to
                                             access resources, Disruptionof social fabric,
                                             increased crime, increase in diseases such as
                                             STDs and HIVIAIDS, Clash of cultural and

                                            Ireligious beliefs and culturalnorms

APPENDIX        4    -     S c r e e n i n g C r i t e r i a   for S i t e s   for      t h e
                         FASE P r o j e c t A c t i v i t i e s




During the screening for possible sites for new schools and institutions, the School
Management Board will request from the Village Administration, suitable and
appropriate land, in the area proposed for location of the new school. Using participatory
methods, the Village Administration will consult with local communities within the
school boundary area, to select the required land to allocate to the School Board, using
the following criteria:

    1) The site should not be within an environmentally sensitive area

   2) There should be a sustainable source of potable water within 1km. of the site

                                              2
   3) The site should be at least 20, 000 m in size or large enough to accommodate the
       building plan for a new school.

   4) The site owners andlor users, if any should be consulted and invited to participate
       in the meetings and activities of the local community regarding the school

   5) The School Board must be able to secure legal title to the land

   6) The outer boundaries of the site should be clearly marked and the sides should be
       measured and recorded.

    7) There should not be any natural or man-made features on the site (e.g, swamps
       water pipes, gullies, bedrock, flood plains and rock falls) to obstruct construction
       or to pose danger to people or building structures.

    8) The site should be clear of natural or man-made features (e.g. Steep cliffs,
       electricity pylons etc), within 100 meters, that could pose danger to students once
       the school is established.

   9) The site must conform to the local development plan for the area or district.

    10) The site should not lead to either the physical displacement of people, loss of their
       shelter, loss of assets, loss of income sources or means of livelihood, or the loss,
       denial or restriction of people's access to economic resources. If it does impact on
       any one of these, another site should be chosen. If it is not possible to locate
       another suitable site, OP 4.12 is triggered and those affected must be
       compensated, consistent with this RPF.

APPENDIX 5 Main Contents of the Resettlement Action Plan
               -


1)Description of the project

2) Potential impacts

3) Objectives

4) Socio-economicstudies

5) Legal framework

6) Institutional framework

7) Eligibility

8) Valuation and compensation for losses

9) Resettlement measures

10)Site selection, site preparation and relocation

11)Housing infrastructure and social services

12) Environmentalprotection and management

13) Communityparticipation

14)Integrationwith host population

15)Grievance procedures

16)Organizationalresponsibilities

17)Implementationschedule

18) Cost and budget

19)Monitoring and evaluation

APPENDIX 6 Contentsfor AbbreviatedResettlementAction Plan
               -


1)Census of project affected persons and valuation of assets.

2) Description of compensation and other resettlement assistance to be provided.

3) Consultations with displaced people about acceptable alternatives

4) Institutional responsibility for implementation and procedures for grievance redress.

5) Arrangements for monitoring and implementation and,

6) A timetable and budget

                     APPENDIX 7 - STEPS LEADING TO PREPARATIONOF THE RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN

                                                                                                          ',
                                                                   STEP 7

                                             STEP 6                                          SMB forwards
                                                                   OP 4.12
                                             Relocate                                        RAPs/ARAPs to
                                                                   Land law
                                             (Site does not
                                                                   (Resettlement -
                                             meet
                                                                   cannotbe
                                             screening
                                                                   avoided)
                                             criteria)                              - \                   //
                                                      A           I             /



           1 fl                           1
Approval of   Appoint     SMBrequests        VNLocal
                          for suitableland   communities
g%sby         Management  from(vA) Village   identify required
MECPool                   Administration     land (screening).
Fund Board??                                 Set cut off date

                                   APPENDIX 8 - EntitlementMatrix for Various Categoriesof PAPS


                                                                 ENTITLEMENTS
 Categoryof
                  Type of Loss          Compensationfor          Compensationfor Loss of land
 PAP                                                                                               Compensationfor Loss of
                                        Loss of Structures       and other Assets                  Income/LiveIihood

                                                                                                   -Cash compensation for cropsltrees at
                                                                 Land replacement at new site,
                                                                                                   replacement cost in scarce season
                                                                 plus land clearing by the project
                                                                                                   -Allow sufficient time to harvest crops

 Property Owners Loss of Structures     Compensationat full      (Fencesblock work, wire, and      For lost income from rented property:
 (including those Residential or        replacement value (not   wood)                             Lump sum cash payment of agreed
 covered by       Business              depreciated).            Wells                             number of months of rental per tenant.
 customary law)                                                  Stores
                                                                 Waste, water facilities
                                                                 Connectionto utilities
                                                                 Access roads

                                                                                                                 assistance, shifting and relocation
                                                                                                   costs
                                                                                                   -Rehabilitationassistance, skills training and
                                                                                                   other development activities to be provided in
                  Socio-economicand    I
                                                                                                   coordinationwith other government agencies;
                  cultural identity
                                                                                                   if the present means of livelihood is no longer
                                                                                                   viable and if the PAP/DP will have to engage
                                                                                                   in a new unfamiliar income generating activity
1                                     ,                                                            -Arrange for assistance from host communities
I                                                                                                  -Disturbance assistance.
 Residential
                                        No loss of structure, no                                   -Transportation assistance, if relocating
 Tenant:          Loss of rental                                 Replacement costs for non-
1                                       entitlementto housing                                      -Rental for a few months
 Business         accommodation                                  movables.
                                        at new site.
/Tenant

                                                                                                              --
1 I                                          1                        Replacement costs for non-                             I
                                                                      movables if installationwas
                      -Loss of Premises      (None
                                                                      agreed with owner.


                                                                                                         For loss of business, payment of lost income at
                      -Loss of business       None                    None                               an agreed rate (say payment of six months of
                                                                                                         past year average turnover)
                                             --

                                              Cash compensation for           possible assistance in     -Cash compensationfor treeslcrops at
                      Loss of shelter,        assetslimprovements               other access to land for replacement cost in scarce season.
Encroachers          1assets and land for     identified by the                 crops, subjectto         -Allow for sufficienttime to harvest crops
(using Land)          cultivationwhere        on the affected land.   approval of local                  -Allow for sufficienttime to relocate
                      applicable                                      Authorities/communities            -For street vendors on right of ways allow
                                                                                                         possible access to other sitesllocations

Squatters (living     Loss of Shelter                                                                    -Payments in lieu of wages while rebuilding
on Site)                                      replacement value for                                      -Disturbance assistance
                                              structure,                                                 -Transport assistance if relocating
                                              -relocation to
                                                                      None
                                              resettlement site, with
                                              payment of site rent.



                                              -Compensationat full    -Land replacement at new site,     -For loss of business, payment of lost income
                                              replacement value for   plus land clearing by the project  -Provision of alternativetemporary facilities
                                              structure,              -Waste facilities, connectionto    during construction,where appropriate.
Community             Public facilities       -relocation to          utilities and provision of access
                                              resettlement site, with roads
                                              payment of siterent.


Note: All payments to be made in Mozambique Meticais.

 APPENDIX 9 Comparison of MozambicanLaw andWorld Bank OP 4.12 regarding Compensation
               -


 Category of
 PAPSI Type of      MozambicanLaw                                                       World Bank OP4.12
 Lost Assets

                    Cash compensationbased upon market value under statute. Land for    Recommends land-for-land compensation. Other
 Land Owners
                    Land under Customary Law                                            compensation is at replacement cost.
                    Entitled to compensationbased on the amount of rights they hold
                                                                                        Are entitled to some form of compensation whatever the
 Land Tenants       upon land under relevant laws. Illegal tenants not entitled to
                                                                                        legallillegalrecognition of their occupancy.
                    comvensation
                    -In some cases land users have some form of secured tenure          Entitled to compensationfor crops, may be entitled to
                    extended to them under new laws. In other cases land users are not  replacement land and income must be restored to at least pre-
                    entitled to compensationfor land. -Entitled to compensationfor      project levels.
 Land Users
                    crops and any other economic assets. -Land for Land under
i                  1customary                                                          I                                                             I

 Owners of          Cash compensationbased on market value orentitled to new            Entitled to in-kind compensation or cash compensationat full
 Temporary          housing on authorized land under government (state or local)        replacement cost including labor and relocation expenses,
 Buildings          housing programs.                                                   prior to displacement.
 Owners of                                                                              Entitled to in-kind compensation or cash compensationat full
 Permanent          Cash Compensation is based on market value.                         replacement cost including labor and relocation expenses,
 buildings
 Perennial Crops    Cash compensationbased upon rates calculated as an averagenet       As per
                    agricultural income.                                                and disclosed at the Bank info shop,


 APPENDIX      11   -   An   Example     of  a   Schedule     to    be    Used    to   Determine       Monetary Compensation  For
 Land Use




 Item Compensated                              (Basis of CalculatingValue                             IMozambicanMeticaisiha                I
IValue of Crops                                IAverage of the highest current official and market    I                                     I
                                                survey of prices per ha of staple food crops
L                                               (maize, rice etc.), plus value of cash crops (e.g.
                                                sugar cane, corn).


      Invested                                  Labor costs of preparing the land and tending the
                                                crop.
                                                Replacementvalue of cropsplus labor


 * Note:Mozambicancurrency payments will be revised to reflect crop values and labor rates applicable at the time of compensation


       Crop values will be determined based on a combination of staple foods and cash crops.

        The value of staple crops to be taken as the highest market price (over 3 years) reached during the year, in recognition of
       these factors:
               Although most farmers grow staple crops mainly for home consumption, they always have the option of selling these
               crops to take advantage of-the market price.
               Farmers most often purchase cereals when they have run out, during the "hungry season" when prices are high.
               Compensating at a lower value might put the individual or household at risk.
               Averaging the highest price of staple foods yields a high per ha value that reimburses for the vegetables and other foods
               that are commonly intercropped with staples, but are almost impossible to measure for compensation.

APPENDIX 12 - Exampleof a schedule for Calculation of Compensationfor Buildings
                                                                                                                                        1
                           MateriaVDescription                                                  Unit   /   Q  ~   a    n     t   i   t y ~  ~
                         bz;
                                   baked bricks
                                                                                                Bundle
                                                                                                Oo0++

+                          Tin roofing sheets                                                  No.
                           Open, closed                                                         No.
                           Cattle, goat, sheep, donkey, other                                  No.
Coops                      Chicken, duck, other                                                No.
                           Straw                                                               Bundle
                          Poles                                                                No
Fence                     raw /baked bricks                                                     1000
                           cement blocks                                                       No
                          raw /baked bricks                                                     1000
                         I Straw                                                              I Bundle   I      I               I          I
                                                                                            h
                          Lump Sum
Open well                 Internally lined with concrete rings and provided with a hand driven  Sum
e                         pun'p.

                                                                                              I
Storagebuildings          Cementhand block walls with thatched roof on z-profiled metal
                          sheets.                                                               Sum
Sun screen open           Similar to those replaced, on thatched roof on wood poles.
hutslshades


Note    :Buildingsand structureswill be replace by an equivalent structure or, on an exceptional basis cash andlorcredit will be paid
        based on replacement costs
       :Replacement latrineswill be similar to those currently operational and financedby the bank or other donor agencies at health
        centers, schools.
       :Detailed scheduleswill be different, based on the specific Census surveys

larnod3Lq pa~onbse (87001) 3es lo 11ty lad a3!ld                                        alewpsa syqljo s!seq se pasn a3ud


                                                                             (~aqwa~das/auny)uoseas 1sa,uey30 1y81a~       .
                                                                               (4ay.1~~018u1p.1033~sauea) 'a3!q lay.mK


                                                 I
       anlea ~aylsw01anp pla!L al11ua1sou11v                                                         Pasn Pla!A paIewI1sX
                           leaL18Y 00'1 01008       1                      aaq a l l e n30 (33) p p r 1mn-q .8av pa~ewgsg
                                                                                                      ~
                                sao2naty *%.a' s a a qnrd pajj'lrr9
                                                      ~ ~



                     aIqe[!eae Llle301's1e3!lan                                                           81.111des30S I S O ~

                                        4 u a ~ J .                                        uog3npold wnw!xen 01s l e a ~
                                   uaaas 01XIS                                                        uog3npoq 01s l e a ~
       uoseas30 pua %OZfuoseas30 ~y%!ay%08                                              aJeur!lsa s~yljos~seqse pasn a3ud
                                                                                                                           .
                                                                                                                           .
                                                                                                (Len a ~ quoseas30 pug
                                                                                                            )
                                                                                   (1udv~3len)uoseas p a m y30 yead
                                                                                                             :a31.1d1aylem
                                                                                                                  -   -
                 ~eaL/aaq/(8yo00'1) sy%s u a l                                                       pasn pla!~pa1ewgsg
                           ~ e a L @00'l 01008
                                    f                                      aaq alnlew30 (83) p [ a ! ~1mn-q .BAVpa~ewgsg
                sao%na~ypntr tr~trn3'tnnoao3 '~ar(sa3*%-a' s a a r ~gnld pa07

                                        Proposedschedule for fruit !e.g. Coconu$ Cashew, Guavaor     w-
                                                                                                                                                 -   --


Average age of tree                        (Estimate    (In kind replacementfor local        Creditsminancial support
                                                         guava and mangoes
Sampling-                                                Deliver to farmer:                  Meticais
Treesplanted after project cut-off date                  -Choice of two guava or mango
in area will not be eligible for                         tress -(local andlor improved
compensation                                             grafted)
                                                         -Supplies:fencing to protect, tree,
                                                         a bucket for watering and a spade
Samplinglyoung tree                         1-6          Deliver to fanner                   Equivalent of x no.
First minor production                                   -Choice of two guava or mango       Meticais in credits or other financialsupport for labor
12-50fruits occurs                                       trees.                              invested in planting, fencing,and watering, made in one
about age 4-5                                            -(local andlor improved grafted)    payment.
                                                         -Supplies:fencingto protect Tree,
                                                         a bucket for watering, and a Spade
GuavaMango~ r e e s                                      Deliver to farmer:                  Equivalent of X no.
Fruit Producing                                          -Choice of two guava or mango       Meticais in credits or other financial support for labor
                                                         trees                               invested in planting, fencing, and watering, made in one
                                                         -(local andlor improved grafted) -  payment.
                                                         Supplies: fencing to protect Tree,  Equivalent of X no. Meticais in credits or other financial
                                                         a bucket for watering, and a Spade support, representing eight years, (8 years x 10 sacks x X
                                                                                             Meticaislsack) lost incornelsubsistence until replacement
                                                                                             trees begin production. This rate to be agreed by farmers.
                                                                                             Total: Equivalent of X no. Meticais in cash or equivalent
                                                                                             financial support to be paid in one installment.


Mature Trees -Low or Non-Fruit              30+          Same as for mature trees above      Same as above
Producing


No compensation will be paid for minor pruning of trees. Compensation for removal of limbs will be prorated on the basis of the
number of square meters of surface area removed. The total surface area of the tree will be calculated using the following formula:
                            2
(112 diameter of canopy) x 3.14.

   APPENDIX 14 Contents of a ComprehensiveCompensationBudget
                      -


                                        Costs (in
   #
         1tem
                                    -- Meticais)*     Assumptions
                                                      For land acquisition purposes, based on cost realized in projects involving similar issues in
                                        Ihectare
                                                      Mozambique.
 I1     /Compensation for loss of      hectare of    (Includes costs of labor invested and cost of crop based on average of highest price of staple food
        1Crops                      II  farm lost  I  crops as ver methods described in Avpendix 7.2 above
                                                                                             ..                                                           I
         Compensationfor loss of                      Those affected would be provided with shared access, or alternateroutes (decision agreed through
                                          N/a
         access to pastoralists                       consultation and participation of all)
 I + 1                              I              I
                                                  I Data
   A     Compensationfor loss of    I     say,             provided from revised socio-economicstudy will determinemarket values of catch for fish.
         access to fishingresources.  /fishmonger
 11                                                   This compensation would be in-hnd. The new buildings would be built and then given to those
 l 5   I Compensation for                             affected. cost based on basic housing needs for a family of ten, including house with four bedrooms,
         Buildingsand Structures                      ventilated pit latrines, outside htchen and storage.

   6     Compensationfor Trees         /yearhee       Based on methods described in Appendix 7.4 above.

         Cost of Relocation            household      This cost is to facilitate transportation,etc.
   7     AssistanceExpenses

                                                      Assumed to be higher than the GDPIcapita.


         Cost of Restoration of           Say         Through employment in Program Activities.
   9     Household Income

         Cost of Training Farmers,                    This is a mitigation measure, which seeks to involve those affected by the project activities.
         pastoralists and other
   lo    PAPS
I     I



   *These costs are to be confirmed during the socio-economic study and revised at the time the payments are made

 APPENDIX 15 An Example of Land Acquisition and Resettlement Implementation Plan
                  -




 1.0      Project Planning   Settingup aneffective administrativereporting system                MECDIPLAC                       MEC/DPEC/LGA
                                                                                                     -


                             FASE Project concept/objectivesstudied and understood               School Mgt Board                MECDIPLAC
                             by key stakeholders
                             ResettlementPolicy Frameworkdiscussed with                          MECDIPLAC                       MEC/DIPLAC/DPEC
                             stakeholders
                             Project authorities and stakeholdersalerted on the                  School Mgt Board                MECDIPLAC
                             necessity for land acquisition and resettlement.
                                                                                                  -

                             Formation of National District and Village                          School Mgt Board                 MECDIPLAC
I        I                  Iimplementation Committees                                    I    I                                I                    I
                             Community involvement, sensitizationand participation               School Mgt Board                District Admin
                             initiated
                             Communityinvolvement,sensitization and participation                DistrictNillage Govt.           MECDIPLAC


                             Screeningof project sites indicating areas of possible              LGA'sNillage Govt.               MECDIPLAC
                             resettlement
1       I                  I Pre~arem a ~for the affected areas
                                             s                                            1    I District admidcadastre         I MECDIPLAC
                             Obtain land authorization                                           School Mgt. Board                MECDIPLAC
                             Demarcate authorized area to be affected                           Village Govt./Cadastre           District Admin
1       1                  I Set cut-off date                                            1       District Admin                  MECDIPLAC
                                 -    - - -


 3.0    1 Socioeconomic    I Community                                                   I
                                           involvement, sensitizationand participation  1       DisbictNillage Govt.
          Survey
                                                                                               I
                             Identify affected persons, party or homestead and                   District admidvillage Govt.      SchoolMgt. Board
                             register their names in detail
                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                I
                             Estimate the magnitude of the impacts relative to the               District admidvillage Govt.      School Mgt. Board
                             need for resettlement andlor compensation
                             Comvile land the register                                          District admidvillane Govt.    I  SchoolM a . Board
                             Carry out valuation of assets to be compensated                     District admidvillage Govt.
                             Create a database for comparativeanalysis at all levels             School Mgt. Board
                             of Government
                           I Report any grievances that require resolution                     ( District Admin                 ( School Mgt. Board



                                                                           71

4  Resettlement      Community involvement, sensitizationand participation      DistrictNillage Govt.       MECDIPLAC
   /compensation
                     Create fora for identifying social investment              Proponent, District         School Mgt. Board
                     opportunities                                              Administration


                                                                                                            School Mgt. Board


                     Provide information about the valuation and negotiation    LGA                         School Mgt. Board
                     process
                     Prepare RAPS                                               School Mgt. Board           MECDIPLAC
                     Authorization of project and RAPSby GoM                    MECDIPLAC                   MECDIPLACDPEC
                     Up-date database for comparativeanalysisat all levels      School Mgt. Board           MECDIPLAC
                     of Government
                     Formulate compensation offers and obtain signed            District Admin              MECDIPLAC
                     agreementswith those affected
                     Provide alternative land (if applicable) inclusive of      MECDIPLAC                   MEC/DIPLAC/DPEC
                     ancillary support services such as transport, housing,
                     crop starterpacks and food support
                     Up-date databasefor comparativeanalysis at all levels      MECDIPLAC                   MEC/DIPLAC/DPEC
                     of Government


5  AfterResettlement Draw up a programme for after resettlementactivities       PAPS,Village Government,    MECDIPLAC
   Activities                                                                   SMB,District Administration
                     Provide Resettlement After-care Assistance                 School Management Board     MECDIPLAC
                     Update database for comparativeanalysis at all levels      School Mgt. Board           MECDIPLAC
                     of Government
                     Carry out monitonng activities                             Distnct Administration,
                                                                                MECDIPLAC, DPEC, PAPs

                 q a sy8no:, 'eayue~p'epelew se yms saseas~ple)uauuoi~auaur s p u a l ~I
        ~ooy:,s~ oalq18qa suosiad Ielo)jo aSelua:,lad e se looy3s
                    j                                              UIs1uapn)sjo laqwnN
             s n d ~ q o01paiedruo:, sa1)!~!)3e 13aroldUI 8ugedr:,rped a~doadjo iaqwnN
                         )


auo:,ur ~uasaldqay) snsiaa sdnoJ8/slenp1~1pu1pal3ajje alqwauInAjo amo3uI l3aroid-ald



               s n d l q o ~ ja8elua3iad e se 'sauo3u1 aagewaqe iaqo lo sdol:, pue puel
                              o
'sa1lya1~3e)uaua3eldsyp-aid ~yaylys11qe1sa-aio1aIqe saqrruejpm slenpyarpuyjo JaqunN
                                                                                                                                               I


   jo iaqunu 1qo)jo a8qua~iade st?pappoid 411enbiauaqjo sasnoy ia81e1jo iaqunN                          alojaq Jew~   ) I M
                                                                                                                          paleduo:, ajq jo




                                ~1unururo3soy pue s n d uaawaq       SJ:,I~O:, jo JaqunN         41unu1ruo:, )soy dq s n djo '(IOUlo) a3uqdamv    E




                                           g.1 uey) ia~eaJ8aq plnoys ogei a u .8u11drues
     wopuei dq pauru1la)ap aq ue:, ogei s r y .paqnsuo:, )ou aiaM ley) asoy) .sa pa)lnsuo:,
                                              ~
  uaaq aaay 01a8pal~ouy~eley) asomjo ogei se pamseau uo~~q~nsuo:,311qndjo                     I
         aa~voddnsIOU asoy) )su!e8e paroid ayljo aatvoddns 8u1uyewals n d j o o g q          1




                                                          uald S u ! ~ o ~ ussa30.1~3uauralUasaxpua uoy!s!nb3y puaqjo aldmax3 - 91 X I ~ N X ~ ~ V
                                                                               o ~

                                                         1Trend in HIV/AIDS statistics in com~arisonwith re-settlement statistics
                                                          Mortality rates after resettlement compared with pre-settlement rates
                                                          Number of PAPs with access to potable water compared with total PAPs
-
7       Productivity                                      Pre-project production versus present production (crop for crop, land for land).
                                                          Post project production per affected householdlhomestead compared with pre-project

      I                                                   Income.

      1                                                   Wildlife conservation and eco-tourism activitv on acauired land as ~ e~rl a n .


Note: These are only some of the indicators that could be used. Specific indicators will need to be developed taking into account site specific
conditions

