Report No. 550-SW
Appraisal of an
Education Project in the
Kingdom of Swaziland
November 8, 1974
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
he published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Lilangeni (plural - Emalangeni) (E)
US$1  =  Lilangeni 0.67
El =  US$1.50
E1,000  =  US$1.,5OO
E1,000,OOO  =  US$1,5O0,0O0
1 Lilangeni  =  1 South African Rand (R)
MEASURES
1 Meter (m)  =   3.28 Feet
1 Square Meter (m2) = 10.76 Square Feet
GOVMET OF THE KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



THE KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .........................   i-iv
I.   INTRODUCTION ....................................    1
II.   DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES NEEDS ...........    1
Socio-Economic Background .......................    1
Economic Development ............................    2
Manpower Requirements ...........................    3
Human Resources and Rural Development ....       .......    3
III.   THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR ....         ...........    4
Evaluation of the Sector ..............                    4
Education Policy, Strategy and Plans ............          S
Investment Programs ..................                     6
lV.   THE PROJECT.7
I.   TEPOET.....................................                7
Objectives ..........      ............................    7
Project Items ........       ...........................    8
The Swaziland Industrial Training Institute
(SITI) ........      ...........................    8
The William Pitcher Teacher Training College
(WPTTC) ........      ..........................    9
The Curriculum Development and Education
Materials Production Center ....       .........    9
Rural Education Centers .....        ...............   10
The Student Career Guidance Program ........  11
Staff Development ......        ....................   11
Technical Assistance .....        ..................   12
This report is based on the findings of a mission in February/March 1974 to
Swaziland composed of Messrs. R.D. Loken (general educator), G. Sinclair
(architect) of the Bank, Mr. W.L. Taylor (economist) of Unesco, Mr. R. Lesire
(rural education specialist) of FAO, and Mr. J.C. Jones (technical educator),
consultant to the Bank.






Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
V.  COST ESTIMATES, FINANCIAL PLAN, IMPLEMENTATION,
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ......    ...............  12
Cost Estimates ....................................   12
Customs Duties and Taxes ......    ..............  14
Contingency Allowances ......    ................  14
Foreign Exchange Component .....    .............  14
Financial Plan ....................................   14
Implementation ....................................   15
Administration ........... ...................   15
Professional Services (Architectural/
Engineering) ........    ......................  16
Procurement .............. .........................   16
Disbursement ............   .........................   17
Retroactive Financing ......     .................  17
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ......     .................  17
Benefits ..........................................   17
Risks involved in the project .....     ...............  18
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .... ........  19
APPENDIX
The Education and Training System
ANNEXES
1.  Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Employment (1970-1972) and Manpower Needs (1972-1982)
3.  High and Middle Level Manpower Employment and Requirements
1972-1982
4.   The General Education System, 1972
5.   Estimated Public Recurrent Expenditures for Education and
Enrollments (1972/73)
6.   Annual Student Output by Specialty 1972-1982
7.   Estimates of Enrollment and Expenditures in Ministry of
Education and Department of Labor 1972-1985
8.   Summary of Estimated Costs
9.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10.   Summary of Project Items



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
CHARTS
1.   Swaziland Education Pyramid - 1972                  World Bank 8770
2.   Structure of Education - 1973                       World Bank 8771
3.   Ministry of Education Organization Chart            World Bank 8772 (R)
4.   Implementation Schedule
MAP                                                           IBRD 1128
Key to Map.



THE KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
BASIC DATA - 1973
General
Area                                                  6,704 square miles
Population (1973 est.)                             493,000
Population growth rate                                  3.1% p.a.
Per capita GDP (1970/71)                            US$250
GDP (1970/71)                                        E 80.1 million
Wage employment                                     54,000
Enployment of Swazis in the
Republic of South Africa                           20,000
Education (1972/73)
Primary schools (grades 1-7) enrollment              78,625
Ratio of enrolled to age group 6-12                67%
Secondary schools (forms I-V) enrollment            11,485
Ratio of enrolled to age group 13-17               18%
Specialized post-secondary enrollment
(non-university) schools                              635
Higher education (excluding overseas enrollments)    235
Ministry of Education recurrent expenditure           E3.7 million
Recurrent expenditures of other Ministries
on education and training                             EO.6 million
Total recurrent education expenditure                 E 4.3 million
Education sector expenditure as a percentage
of total government expenditure                    20%






GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
COSC     -     Cambridge Overseas School Certificate received
after passing the twelfth grade examination.
DEMS     -     Division of Extra-Mural Services of UBLS providing
off-campus courses.
FTC      -     Farmer Training Centers, institutions providing
training for farmers and youths.
Jo       -     Junior Certificate received after passing the
tenth grade examination.
"0W      -     Ministry of Works.
NTTC     -     Nazarene Teacher Training College, a church-
sponsored teacher training college.
ODM      -      Ministry of Overseas Development, the agency
directing the UK international aid program.
OXFAM    -     Oxford Famine Relief Fund, a private international
aid agency in the UK.
REC      -     Raral Education Center, an institution designed to
provide rural education and training.
SACUC    -     Swaziland Agricultural College University Center,
the agricultural education division of UBLS.
SITI     -      Swaziland Industrial Training Institute, the technical
training institution for Swaziland.
UBLS     -     The University of Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland
serving all three countries.
USAID    -      The United States Agency for International Develop-
ment which directs the US international aid program.
WPTTC    -      The William Pitcher Teacher Training College, the
Government teacher training institution.






SWAZILAND
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an education project for which an IDA credit
of US$5.0 million equivalent is proposed.
ii.       Swaziland's education and training sector features:  (a) a compara-
tively high enrollment ratio at both primary and secondary levels as a result
of the considerable assistance formal education received from missionary socie-
ties for almost 150 years; (b) a technical training institute which, though
well administered, does not yet meet Swaziland's increasing needs for skilled
manpower; (c) a strong and effective literacy program; (d) a well-conceived
scheme for educating and training high level manpower through the tri-national
University of Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland (UBLS); (e) numerous, but un-
coordinated, programs for rural training. The long-term control of the educa-
tion system by the missionary societies has operated against the development
of a coherent national educational plan and has failed to provide for clearly
defined needs in the monetary sector of the economy. The lack of administra-
tive and technical capacity, especially at the middle level, has retarded
development and has limited Swaziland's capacity to absorb the foreign aid
made available by bilateral and multilateral donors. The system further suf-
fers from outmoded curricula, inadequate pedagogical training of one-third
of the teachers, and insufficient coordination among agencies involved in
nonformal education for rural development. Finally, since education and
training already absorb about 20% of the Government recurrent budget and
4.3% of the GNP, further expenditures must be carefully planned in order to
obtain maximum development impact from their deployment.
iii.      Since Independence in 1968, the Government has moved purposefully
toward an effective educational system designed to meet Swaziland's needs.
The educational plan gives priority to: (a) the improvement and expansion of
vocational, technical, agricultural and teacher education; (b) the reorien-
tation of secondary education toward a more practical content; (c) major
curriculum improvements in both primary and secondary education; and, (d) the
phased development of a rural and adult education program.
iv.       The proposed project would assist:  (a) the expansion and improve-
ment of vocational, technical and commercial education and of a teacher train-
ing college; (b) the creation of training centers for youths and adults in
the rural areas; (c) the establishment of a curriculum development center
and materials production center for the entire school system; and (d) the
establishment of a student career guidance and employment follow-up program.
It would consist of:



- ii -
(a) Buildings, furniture and equipment for the following
institutions:
-    the extension of the existing Swaziland Industrial
Training Institute (SITI);
-    the extension of the existing William Pitcher Teacher
Training College (WPTTC); and
-    seven new rural education centers.
(b) Buildings, furniture and vehicles for:
-    a curriculum development center;
-    a teaching materials production facility; and
-    three regional teacher in-service training and
teaching materials distribution centers.
(c) Specialized equipment: for a student career guidance
and employment follow-up service.
(d) The cost of professional services and technical assistance in
a Program Implementation Unit.
The full-time student capacity of the ptoject institutions would be increased
from about 1,000 to 3,400 and would be geared to well-identified manpower
needs; the entire program would conform to present and projected constraints
in terms of both instructor availability and recurrent finance. The part-time
and short courses enrollments in the project schools and centers are estimated
at an additional 7,000 p.a.
v.        As the education strategy and the proposed project include major
reforms, the progress of the project will be closely monitored by the existing
Education Evaluation Unit throughout the implementation period.
vi.       The SITI is the only industrial training institution in Swaziland
and its present output (about 170 full-time students p.a.) meets only one-
fourth of the estimated needs for skilled workers, technicians and commercial
employees. The rapid rate of industrial growth has escalated the demand for
trained employees. Expansion and improvements assisted by the project would
increase full-time enrollment from 370 to 720, provide in-service training
for some 450 workers p.a. already in employment, add new courses, expand and
diversify commercial training, and increase existing capacity for training
hotel staff.
vii.      The proposed project would establish education and training centers
in seven selected rural areas where adults and school leavers would attend
evening and weekend courses providing instruction in: (a) rural skills and



- iii -
handicrafts; (b) hygiene, nutrition, and home economics; and (c) literacy,
cooperatives, farm marketing, and similar special subjects. These seven
Rural Education Centers would provide the initial phase of the Government's
national rural education scheme and would also serve as a pilot program for
diversified secondary school studies. Two of the seven RECs would result
from conversion/expansion of existing junior secondary schools in rural areas.
The remainder would be located in more remote areas where junior secondary
schools are not available. Therefore, these five RECs would also include
facilities for junior secondary instruction. By directing expansion of school
places solely toward rural areas, the RECs would help overcome the present
disparity in educational opportunity between urban and rural areas.
viii.     The William Pitcher Teacher Training College (WPTTC) offers training
places for some 200 pre-service and 300 in-service primary and lower-secondary
school teachers. The proposed project would expand these facilities to provide
for 300 pre-service and 360 in-service teacher trainees. Over the next ten
years Swaziland will need an additional 1,o0o primary and 1,000 secondary
teachers to provide for attrition, expatriate replacement and expansion. The
proposed expansion of WPTTC, together with increased outputs from the Nazarene
Teacher Training College (NTTC) and the University of Botswana, Lesotho and
Swaziland (UBLS), would meet these needs.
ix.       Basic guidelines for changes in the primary and secondary school
curricula have been completed. In these new curricula, the emphasis is on
practical studies rather than on the present literary subjects. Consequent
changes in the syllabi content are being planned by a curriculum development
unit established with bilateral assistance, and accommodation, furniture and
transport facilities needed for the production and distribution of teaching
materials would be provided by the project.  Included in the project would
be provision for the establishment of three regional centers for the distri-
bution of these new materials and the training of practicing teachers in their
use.
x.        The Government is establishing a National Employment Service to
offer career guidance, placement, and follow-up services to students. The
National Employment Service already has a qualified cadre of staff and will
soon move into suitable quarters. The project would include funds to provide
for the specialized equipment needs of this new service.
xi.       Present project implementation capability needs strengthening, in
particular, in the areas of architectural/engineering contractual procedures
and equipment procurement. Therefore the project includes provision for
technical assistance for this purpose.
xii.      A Program Implementation Unit is being established in the Ministry
of Education; the Unit would consult with architects/engineers in the Ministry
of Works in the preparation of project plans and their final review. To avoid
delays in implementation, the employment of a Program Director is a condition
of credit effectiveness. In addition, during negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Government that: (i) the Program Director, Procurement
Specialist and Accountant will be selected in consultation with the Association
and appointed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association; and



- iv -
(ii) the Ministry of Works will provide assistance to the Program Implementa-
tion Unit and strengthen their existing School Facilities Unit either by pro-
viding additional architectural staff or by employing consultants. Procure-
ment would be on the basis of the Association guidelines for international
competitive bidding with the exception that procurement of instructional
equipment, books and furniture costing less than US$20,000 up to an aggregate
total of US$150,000 would be on the basis of domestic competitive bidding.
xiii.     The total cost of the project is estimated at US$7.14 million equi-
valent of which 54% will be foreign exchange. The high foreign exchange com-
ponent arises from the need to import most of the equipment, furniture and
construction materials required for the project, in spite of efforts to maxi-
mize the use of local material and standardized low-cost accommodations.
xiv.      The benefits expected from the project would be (a) improved supply
of skilled manpower from local institutions in fields directly related to
social and economic development; (b) reorientation of primary and secondary
education toward a more practical content; (c) use of educational facilities
and resources for rural educational development; and (d) introduction of a
student career guidance and follow-up program. These benefits indicate the
suitability of the project as a part of the overall strategy for improving
and expanding the country's infrastructure, increasing agricultural and indus-
trial productivity, and extending the Government's capability to administer
development programs and projects.
xv.       The IDA Credit (US$5.0 million equivalent) would meet 70% of the
total project cost. The Government would provide the additional funds required
(US$2.14 million equivalent), which represent 65% of the estimated local
currency expenditures.
xvi.      Subject to the conditions in paras. 7.01 - 7.03, the project is
suitable as a basis for a Development Credit of US$5.0 million equivalent
to the Kingdom of Swaziland.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In its six years of independence, Swaziland has made considerable
progress in social and economic development and the Government has gained
academic and administrative control of an educational system previously
dominated by religious missions. The Ministry of Education, together with
the National Education Commission, and with technical assistance from the
UNDP, USAID, ODM and other agencies and with wide local participation from
both public and private life, has developed a long-term educational plan.
As a part of this plan, the proposed project would assist in the expansion
and improvement of vocational, technical, commercial, and teacher training
programs; provide for the introduction of a nationwide rural education scheme
and of practical studies in the secondary schools; and, help strengthen
curriculum development and the students' guidance program.
1.02      Subsequent to a Bank/Unesco reconnaissance mission in July-August
1973, a mission composed of Messrs. R. Loken (general educator), G. Sinclair
(architect) of the Bank and Messrs. W.L. Taylor (economist, Unesco), J.C. Jones
(technical educator, consultant) and R. Lesire (rural education specialist,
FAo) simultaneously prepared and appraised the project in February/March 1974.
II. DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES NEEDS
2.01      Socio-Economic Background.  Swaziland is a small landlocked country
of 6,704 square miles situated between Mozambique and the Republic of South
Africa.  Its population is about 493,000, 1/ (Annex 1) 30% of whom derive
their livelihood from subsistence agriculture. The population is growing at
about 3% p.a. Agriculture and rural activities contributed 35.5% of the 1971/
72 GDP. Manufacturing, mining and construction (25%) and services (39.5%)
account for the remainder.
2.02      The main feature of the economy is the co-existence of a modern
foreign-owned sector of plantations, ranches, processing industries and mines,
and a Swazi-owned sector consisting mainly of farming and small manufacturing.
Foreigners own nearly 50% of the land, while the remainder is held in trust
by the King for the Swazi nation. The development of foreign-owned land and
mineral concessions was responsible for a steady increase in agricultural and
mineral production and exports. This development began in the 1950's and is
continuing at a sustained rate today. This has led to a rapid increase in
GDP and wage employment (some 10% p. a. during the last 15 years). Swaziland
has developed a fairly diversified production and export structure based on
light manufacturing, sugar, wood and wood products (mainly pulp), iron ore,
citrus fruit, and asbestos.
1/   The citizens of Swaziland (the Swazis) are estimated at 493,000 but some
21,000 of them live in the Republic of South Africa. The resident popula-
tion therefore is about 472,000.



- 2 -
2.03      Economic Development.  The per capita income of the resident popu-
lation is approaching US$300 equivalent. Swaziland's Second National Develop-
ment Plan (1973-77) defines the Government's priorities as-follows: (a) "to
promote widespread participation of Swazis in development to improve their
general standard of living; (b) to improve the relevance and usefulness of the
education/training programs; (c) to accelerate the rate of change from sub-
sistence farming to commercial farming; and (d) to strengthen the institutions
necessary for the effective guidance and control of the economy." From 1970/
1971 GDP rose by 8.2% at constant prices and by 11.4% from 1971/72. Most of
the expansion has occurred in the modern sector of mainly foreign-controlled
enterprises engaged in farming, mining, forestry, manufacturing, tourism
and other services. Commercial agriculture, employing about 40% of the wage-
earning labor force,accounted for more than 20% of GDP in 1971/72. Lack of
financial resources, land tenure problems and the absence of a national rural
development plan have combined to keep the income of the small farmer at sub-
sistence level. A Rural Development Council, established in 1973, is now
developing integrated programs directed to improve living standards of the
small holders. In addition, large tracts of idle foreign-owned land are
being purchased by the King as Swazi Nation Lands to be redistributed to farm
families and incorporated into agricultural development projects for small
farmers. These Swazi Nation Lands, amounting to some 750,000 acres, have
been apportioned among the seven Rural Development Areas.
2.04      Manufacturing has expanded at 10% p.a. during the last two years.
Tourism, accounting for about 5% of GDP in 1971/72, is expanding at the rate
of 25% p.a. Commercial activity and construction are also expanding rapidly
(15% p.a.). The establishment of new manufacturing industries is geared to
the expansion of employment opportunities, the diversification of sources of
foreign investment, and the encouragement of labor-intensive industries.
Through the National Industrial Development Corporation, Swaziland is able to
provide attractive terms for foreign investors including tax incentives, in-
dustrial estates, loans and other assistance. New industrial projects under
active consideration include a textile mill and additions to sugar and wood
processing facilities. As a result of the recent growth of the modern sector,
the demand for labor has exceeded supply, notably in the forest and sugar
industries.
2.05      The Government's financial performance during the last three fiscal
years has been marked by rapidly rising current revenues which increased from
E 15.7 million in 1970/71 to an estimated E 26.0 million in 1973/74, i.e. an
average increase of 18.5% p.a. Capital expenditures rose from E 1.6 million
in 1970/71 to E 7.7 million in 1972/73 or 28% of total expenditure.
2.06      Recent examinations of economic indicators point to continued
favorable economic growth. In the modern sector, major new investments in
coal mining, industry, and hotel construction are imminent. As finance is
likely to be available, the principal constraint to the implementation of
these programs is the lack of local skilled manpower to execute and operate
them.



- 3 -
2.07      Manpower Requirements.  Recent comprehensive statistics on the size,
distribution and growth of Swaziland's labor force are not available because
the last in-depth manpower survey was completed in 1969. However, the 1974
total labor force is estimated at about 150,000 persons. In September 1972,
employment in the modern sector was 63,360 (including 9,500 self-employed)
or 43% of the estimated total labor force. Projections of the likely increase
in wage employment, based on present trends in output and investment of the
different sectors, indicate that at least 15,000 new jobs will be created
by 1978. Despite the possible surplus of unskilled job-seekers over total
wage employment opportunities, a serious shortage of Swazis with the educa-
tional background required for high and middle level jobs in industry and
commerce is likely to continue for some considerable time. Unless this short-
age is eased, economic development will be severely restricted and dependence
on expatriates may increase.
2.08      Of the 53,860 in wage employment in September 1972 (Annex 2) 9,500
were in high and middle level positions. Some 2,700 of these positions were
occupied by non-citizens. At present, over 40% of administrative and techni-
cal employees are expatriates. If the present target of total replacement of
expatriates within ten years is to be attained, and if vacancy, wastage and
growth requirements of employment are to be met, an additional 10,000 middle
level and 1,000 higher level employees must be trained in the next decade, as
shown in Annexes 2 and 3. These projections indicate a minimum need for 900
to 1,000 additional trained middle level employees p.a. over the next decade.
The present capacity of existing training institutions allows for an annual
output of less than 500 p.a. In addition, while specialized education requires
expansion in line with demand for technicians and skilled workers, general edu-
cation needs reorientation and improvement to attune its content with a labor
market featuring increased sophistication.
2.09      Human Resources and Rural Development.  The Government recognizes
that despite the expected growth in employment in the modern sector, some 60%
of the labor force will still earn its livelihood on the land by the end of
the next decade. In addition, some 20% of the total labor force are likely
to be in subsistence farming until well in the 1980's as compared with 30% of
the labor force in the early 1970's (para. 2.01). The population is thinly
distributed over the entire country with very few villages and only two towns
with over 20,000 inhabitants. Women make up a large portion of the labor
force engaged in subsistence farming. Studies of the agricultural sector
indicate a high potential for agricultural production. Improvements in land
tenure practices, agricultural training, marketing, credit and other services
are being developed by the Rural Development Council (para. 2.03) which is
also promoting the provision of practical training related to the work of
the farmers, and the inter-ministerial coordination necessary to make more
productive use of existing rural development facilities and services (Appendix,
paras. 28-34).
2.10      In surmmary, a planned program of human resources development is
fundamental to the successful implementation of Swaziland's development poli-
cies. To this end, the Government has developed a long-term plan which takes



- 4 -
into account the country's increasing dependence on services and manufacturing,
the inadequacies of the present educational system, present and expected finan-
cial limitations, the urgent need for trained manpower especially at the mid-
dle level, and the requirements for making more effective use of present and
future educational services for the rural population, which accounts for the
lowest 30% income group.
III. THE EDUCAIION AND TRAINING SECTOR
3.01      Evaluation of the Sector.  An analysis of the Swaziland education
and training system and relevant data are given in the Appendix, Annexes 4,
5, 6 and 7, and Charts 1 and 2. Although the system offers places for 67% of
the primary age group and for 18% at the secondary level, the distribution
of enrollment between general and technical/vocational education presents
serious imbalances, resulting in a shortage of technically trained manpower.
3.02      The period 1962-72, wlhen the religious missions held a large measure
of autonomy (Appendix, para. 1), was marked not only by a lack of effective
educational planning and control but also by a rapid secondary school enroll-
ment growth (15% p.a.). At present, secondary and university education togeth-
er account for 45% of the total public recurrent educational expenditure as
contrasted with less than 6% for the training of urgently needed middle level
manpower in the technical/vocational and commercial fields (Annex 5). The
education sector absorbs about 4.3% of GDP and 20% of the Government recur-
rent budget.
3.03      The system not only fails to meet the manpower needs of the modern
sector (para. 2.08) but is characterized by outmoded and inappropriate curri-
cula, inadequate pedagogical training of one-third of the teachers, and a lack
of furniture and equipment for classrooms, laboratories and workshops. The
curriculum stresses literary stbjects and is poorly adapted to the cultural
and developmental needs of the country. Little attention is given to Swazi-
land's cultural heritage or to practical studies relating to the country's
economic environment.
3.04      Programs to provide itechnicians in engineering, commercial, agricul-
tural, administrative and para-medical areas are either inadequate or non-
existent. As noted in para. 2.08, Swaziland's most urgent manpower needs are
in the middle level technical occupations.
3.05      In spite of the existence of as many as eight different schemes
of nonformal education (Appendix, paras. 28-34), insufficient efforts have
been made to provide a well-coordinated and effective program of training
for adults in agricultural practices, rural skills, nutrition and hygiene, and



programs to prepare school leavers for self-employment need further improve-
ment and expansion. To this end, schools are now introducing agriculture in
the curricula (Appendix, para. 31).
3.06      Education Policy, Strategy and Plans.  As a first step toward
improved control of the quality and content of education, the Government has
accepted a greatly increased share of the financial burden by paying grants-
in-aid to mission schools and the salaries of all qualified teachers. Growth
of secondary school enrollment is being reduced. If the recent secondary
school growth rate of 15% p.a. is maintained, the recurrent costs for second-
ary education alone would be such that little would be left for the develop-
ment of technical, vocational and commercial education and for the establishment
of an effective rural education scheme to meet the specific needs of the lowest
income group (para. 2.10).
3.07      Several studies to assist policy formulation and planning have been
conducted with assistance from bilateral and multilateral agencies. In 1973,
a National Commission on Education with wide participation from Government and
business was appointed to ensure that local interests would receive full con-
sideration in the preparation of the long-term education plan. While the
Commission's function is advisory, the results of its work have been valuable,
not only as to the definition of objectives, quantitative targets and strat-
egies to attain them but also as to the reorientation of curricula and teaching
methods, e.g., it is largely through the Commission's efforts that curriculum
revision has made such rapid progress and that the amount of educational
broadcasting time has been increased to 4-1/2 hours per day. More significant
than these changes in the methods of education has been the introduction of
the national language as the medium of instruction in the first three grades
of primary education and the teaching of agriculture in the latter part of
the primary courses.
3.08      The education plan gives priority to:  (a) the improvement and expan-
sion of technical, commercial, agricultural, vocational and teacher education;
(b) the reorientation of the secondary curriculum to include practical subjects,
with increased emphasis on mathematics and science, and the modernization of
methods of instruction; and (c) the phased development of a comprehensive rural
and adult education program in line with staff availability and improved inter-
ministerial coordination. The quantitative targets are summarized in the pro-
jections of Annexes 6 and 7. In particular, these projections show: (i) rapid
expansion in enrollments in specialized institutions for training middle level
manpower; (ii) reduced growth of general secondary school enrollments; and
(iii) gradual implementation of a countrywide scheme of rural education for
youths and adults. By 1985, universal primary education would be achieved,
some 20% of the age group would be in secondary education, and expenditure
by the Ministry of Education and the Department of Labor (SITI) would absorb
no more than 16% (Annex 7), as compared with the present 18% of the Government
budget, a reasonable ratio as compared to other developing countries (Annex 1).
Financial resources are likely to be available to attain universal primary
education even before 1985, to improve services at the disposal of the
sector and to introduce new programs which will contribute to the relevance



- 6 -
and external productivities of the sector (e.g., the establishment of a
cotprehensive rural education program and the reorientation of secondary
education through the provision of practical subjects).
3.09      Investment Programs.  The Government investment program based on
this policy, strategy and plan is designed to meet the following priorities:
(a) Continued support for the expansion of the University of
Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland to produce an adequate
supply of high level. manpower (para. 3.04);
(b)  Improvement and expansion of institutions for agricultural,
technical, and teacher training to lessen the existing
acute manpower shortages at the middle level (paras. 2.08
and 3.04): with improved facilities and increased enroll-
ments, these levels and types of education will receive in
1978 about 14.5% of the recurrent budget allocation for
education as against: 6% in 1973;
(c)  Further increases in primary and secondary school enroll-
ment to be met by expanding existing primary schools to
permit economies of scale and adding a limited number of
new schools in rural areas where facilities for junior
secondary instruction do not presently exist; and
(d)  The establishment of a nationwide rural adult education
scheme to be accomplished by (i) increasing the supply
and improving the quality of agricultural extension
officers; (ii) using school facilities and staff for non-
formal education programs; (iii) reorienting the content
of teacher training to prepare teachers for an expanded
role in community development; (iv) widening the scope
of the present literacy program to include courses on
health, nutrition and agriculture; and (v) developing a
network of Rural Education Centers under the leadership
of the Rural Development Council (para. 2.03).
3.10      Some aspects of this investment program are already receiving assist-
ance.  In particular, the expaLnsion of UBLS is helped by the UK, US, Canada,
Denmark and Sweden for both capital and recurrent expenditures; the Swaziland
Agricultural College University Center (SACUC) is receiving Swedish assistance
to develop degree programs in agriculture and animal production and diploma
courses for domestic science and agricultural secondary school teachers; and,
technical assistance for the curriculum reform throughout general education
is being provided by USAID. Ihe other major aspects of the program would form
part of the Association-assisted education project.
3.11      The Education Evaluation Unit, a working committee within the Ministry
of Education, will undertake a continuous monitoring of the progress and effec-
tiveness of the new education programs which will also be closely analyzed by



- 7 -
the National Commission on Education (para. 3.07). The Evaluation Unit has
prepared proposals for the evaluation of the new programs including those
promoted by the project; these proposals were discussed with the Government
during negotiations.
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01       The proposed project would assist an investment program with the
following principal aims: (a) expanding and improving technical, commercial
and teacher training; (b) strengthening rural education for youths and adults;
and (c) establishing a curriculum development center and a student career
guidance system. It would consist of:
(a) The provision of buildings, furniture and equipment for the follow-
ing institutions:
Approximate Number of
Student Places
Type of Institution                       Existing   Additional  Total
1.   Swaziland Industrial Training
Institute (SITI) (grades 11-15)
Pre-Service students                370          350        720
In-Service students (short
courses)                          100          350        450
2.   William  Pitcher Teacher Training
College (WPTTC) (grades 11-14)
Primary Teachers (pre-service
training)                         125           55        180
Junior Secondary Teachers
(pre-service training)             94           26        120
In-Service Training (short
courses)                          300           60        360
3.   Seven Rural Education Centers
(i) Short courses for youths and
adults /1                        0          700        700
(ii) Places for junior secondary
students                      403         1,282      1,685
1,392        2,823      4,215
/1 These 700 places will provide facilities for training
some 7,000 adults p.a.



(b)  The provision of buiLldings, furniture and transport for the Curri-
culum Development and Education Materials Production Center.
(c)  The provision of equipment for the student career guidance
system (the National Employment Service).
(d) The provision of professional services for a Program Implementation
Unit.
Project Items
4.02      The Swaziland Industrial Training Institute (SITI) is the only indus-
trial vocational training institution in the country, and the proposed project
would assist in its expansion and diversification. The improvements would add
to the range of instruction given, would increase the existing capacity for
full-time students from 370 to 720, and that for part-time, in-service students
from 100 to 450 p.a. The program would include: (a) a pre-technician training
course; 1/ (b) craft courses in carpentry, construction, electrical, plumbing
and sheet-metal work, motor vehicle and maintenance mechanics work; (c) post-
secondary technician courses in civil, mechanical and electrical engineering;
(d) clerical, business and administrative training; (e) hotel and food handling
training; (f) the training of commercial and pre-vocational teachers for sec-
ondary schools; and (g) the training of managers and supervisors. Programs
and facilities would be organized on a flexible basis to permit the addition
or cancellation of special courses in response to changing demand. Boarding
(280 places) and 16 housing units for teaching and service staff are necessary
due to the national character of SITI and the housing shortage in Mbabane, the
capital of Swaziland, where SIT'I is located.
4.03      In addition to the expansion of industrial training, the enlargement
of SITI would add to existing training facilities in two important areas:
business/administration and hotel/catering. Demand for trained personnel in
both areas is increasing rapidly. In the business/administration area, the
estimated annual demand for middle level occupations is 200. The Staff Train-
ing Institute, which formerly supplied clerical employees for the public
service, has recently discontinued this training and now devotes all of its
efforts to the training of Government administrative personnel. This means
that the SITI is the only clerical training institution for both public and
private sectors. In the hotel/catering area, there are five large tourist
hotels, three are under construction and three more will start construction
soon.
4.04      The fact that SITI is administered by the Department of Labor of the
Deputy Prime Minister's Office which is responsible for work permits, job stand-
ards, trade tests and the wage stabilization program, has enabled the Institute
to maintain close contacts with the industries employing its trainees. In
1/   A six-month course to prepare grade 10 leavers for entry into the techni-
cian course at SITI.



- 9 -
order to make these contacts even more effective, the SITI is establishing an
Advisory Committee made up of major public and private employers, to advise
on problems of placement and follow-up and to ensure that the training offered
meets industry's needs. The newly created National Employment Service (student
career guidance program) would also provide services to trainees and regular
information on employment.
4.05      The William Pitcher Teacher Training College (WPTTC) at Manzini is
the only teacher training institution operated by the Government. It is also
the principal source of teachers in Swaziland since the only other is the
Nazarene Teacher Training College (NTTC--operated by a missionary society)
with an output of only some 40 trained primary school teachers p.a. WPTTC
now provides places for 200 pre-service teachers in a two-year course and 300
in-service primary and lower-secondary teachers. The proposed expansion would
provide places for 300 pre-service and 360 in-service teacher trainees; due
to the housing shortage in Manzini, the project would also include five staff
housing units. To meet the needs of expatriate replacement, wastage and growth,
some 1,000 primary and 1,000 secondary school teachers will be required over
the next ten years. The figure for secondary teachers' needs takes account
of the planned replacement of expatriate teachers who make up three-fifths
of the present secondary teaching force. With the proposed expansion of
WPTTC, the supply of teachers would meet the requirements over the next ten
years.
4.06      More important than these quantitative aspects would be the reorien-
tation of teacher training programs which would be promoted as a part of the
project. The recent decisions to use the national language as medium of in-
struction in the first three grades of primary education and to introduce agri-
culture and other practical subjects in the upper primary cycle and in junior
secondary education (para. 3.07), require the re-training of some 2,000 pri-
mary school teachers and 500 junior secondary school teachers. For these
reasons, the project would place emphasis on in-service training. Finally,
the physical improvement of WPTTC, assisted under the project, would give
priority to the provision of facilities for training future teachers in applied
sciences such as agriculture, nutrition and home economics to enable them to
play a significant role in community development. This is in line with the
policies and programs of the Rural Development Council (para. 2.03) which call
for the use of the resources at the disposal of the school system for the
promotion of development in rural and remote areas (para. 3.09).
4.07      The Curriculum Development and Education Materials Production Center
is being established on the WPTTC campus.~ Work on curriculum reform began
two years ago with technical assistance from USAID. This work has progressed
to the point that specialized accommodations are required in order that new
textbook and teaching materials can be prepared and introduced throughout the
system. The project would provide offices, work-rooms, visual aids facilities,
a recording studio for radio tapes, together with service areas, furniture and
vehicles. A small education materials production unit, where prototype mate-
rials would be developed, would be part of the Center. Equipment and techni-
cal assistance requirements are being provided by USAID.



- 10 -
4.08      Curriculum development is proceeding satisfactorily.  The primary
school curriculum reform has been completed and work on syllabi, textbooks
and teaching materials has comienced. The secondary school curriculum reform
is expected to be completed during 1974. To facilitate the distribution of
new materials to schools, and to train the teachers in their use, three re-
gional teacher in-service training and materials distribution centers would
be part of the project. Each would include two offices, a work-room and
service facilities and one vehicle to transport teacher trainees and materials.
4.09      Rural Education Centers.  As depicted in the Appendix, paras. 28-34,
there are eight different programs of nonformal education for rural develop-
ment and the Rural Development Council (para. 2.03) is promoting their coor-
dinated expansion. As a first step toward a more systematic development of
nonformal education in rural areas, the Council has proposed the establish-
ment of a network of Rural Education Centers (RECs) in the proximity of school
facilities. The RECs would be broadly patterned after the Community Education
Centers and the Rural Education Institutes which are gaining ground in Tanzania
and Ethiopia, respectively. 1/ Because of the comparatively high enrollment
ratios of Swaziland, they would be based on junior secondary schools, but rep-
resent a major departure from traditional secondary education since they would
offer practically oriented agricultural training and rural skills training to
both primary school leavers and adults. The curriculum for the primary school
leavers program provides for a three-year course in which practical work would
take 45% of the time, the remainder being devoted to basic subjects of junior
secondary education in order to allow a portion of the students to qualify
for the Junior Certificate (JC) examination in line with the Government's
social mobility objectives; thus, the RECs would also help in promoting the
introduction of practical subjec:ts in the secondary schools (Appendix, para.
17). Services to adults would include community development, agricultural
extension work, domestic science, short courses in rural skills, cooperatives,
health and nutrition. In particular, the RECs would serve as the focal point
to coordinate and provide services at the local level for the eight programs
summarized in para. 29 of the Appendix. Due to the experimental nature of the
RECs, the Government intends to have their progress closely monitored by the
Education Evaluation Unit (para. 3.11); this was confirmed during negotiations
and the Government provided assurances that the evaluation methodology will
be discussed with the Association within one year of signing the Credit
Agreement and that the program for the RECs and the practical studies curricula
will be sent to the Association for comment within two years of signing the
Credit Agreement.
4.10      In the initial phase, the Government plans to establish seven RECs,
which would cover some 25% of the junior secondary schools in rural areas.
Two of the seven RECs would result from conversion/expansion of existing
junior secondary schools in ruraL areas. The remainder would be located in
more remote areas where junior secondary schools are not available. Therefore,
1/   They are receiving Bank Group assistance under Credit 371-TA and Credit
243-ET.



- 11 -
these five RECs would also include facilities for junior secondary instruction;
the number of student places to be provided at this level is in line with the
Government's objective of controlling expansion of secondary school enrollment
(para. 3.08). By directing expansion of school places solely toward rural
areas, the RECs would help overcome the present disparity in educational oppor-
tunity between urban and rural areas. At the present time, less than one-third
of the secondary schools are located in the rural areas.
4.11      Training given in the RECs would be organized as short, part-time,
day, evening, and weekend courses. It is expected that 1,000 persons p.a.,
drawn from the ten-mile area surrounding each REC, would be enrolled at each
REC, out of a total youth and adult population of some 30,000 in each area.
Each REC would have a minibus to provide transportation. Facilities would
provide places for 100 trainees; 50 youths in three-month programs and 50
adults in one- and two-week courses. The potential annual output would be
about 1,000 trainees in each REC or approximately 7,000 p.a. in total. The
teaching staff of the schools would be augmented by itinerant staff from SACUC,
SITI (paras. 3.10 and 4.02) and the agricultural extension service. A total
of 42 additional instructors is required to operate the seven RECs. During
negotiations, assurances were provided by the Government that, within two
years of signing the Credit Agreement, the necessary instructors will be in
training.
4.12      There is considerable social demand for the creation of the RECs
as evidenced by the interest expressed by groups of local citizens at each
of the proposed REC locations. These local groups pledged monetary and
personal support for the Centers. Since each REC is located adjacent to a
designated Rural Development Area, they will provide additional support to
these agricultural projects. In addition, the population in the area surround-
ing each REC is sufficiently large (average 30,000) to assure a continuous
flow of trainees. Finally, the locations of the RECs were selected to provide
junior secondary school facilities where none are now available thus helping
to correct some of the regional imbalances in educational opportunity. Two
of the RECs are adjacent to large sugar plantation development projects and
the clientele of these Centers will therefore include some plantation workers
as well as small farmers. The clientele of the other five RECs will be pri-
marily small subsistence farmers and their families.
4.13      The Student Career Guidance Program (the National Employment Service)
needs specialized equipment to operate effectively in the areas of career
guidance for students, counselling, aptitude tests, placement advice, employ-
ment follow-up services and regular reports on the employment market. The
program will supply manpower data not now available (para. 2.07) and, thus,
help prepare further plans and projects. The program has begun initial opera-
tions and is adequately staffed. The equipment to be provided under the proj-
ect consists mainly of calculators and data handling machines.
4.14      Staff Development.  The implementation of the strategy outlined in
para. 3.08 and of the proposed project requires the strengthening of the
Ministry of Education staff, some of which is already underway. Provision
for specialist assistance in rural adult education and commercial education,
together with fellowship funds for training Swazi counterparts, is needed.



- 12 -
During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that the technical
assistance required will be provided either by other agencies or by the Govern-
ment itself according to a program to be discussed with the Association within
six months from the signing of the Credit Agreement.
4.15      Technical Assistance would be required for program implementation
in support of a Program Director and a Procurement Specialist who, in addition
to overseeing the implementation of the program, would train counterparts and
help in standardizing educational facilities, making them more economical and
maximizing the use of local materials in school construction. This technical
assistance would be financed under the proposed project.
V. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCIAL PLAN,
IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
5.01      Cost Estimates.  Civil works cost estimates have been derived from
examples of school and housing projects in Swaziland. The average tendered
cost for new school construction as of March 1974 is estimated at about US$120
per m2 and compares favorably with other countries in the Region. Schedules
of accommodation have been prepared for all project institutions and allow
for functional but economical standards. Equipment cost estimates for SITI
are based on draft equipment lists prepared by SITI staff. Other equipment
cost estimates are based on Une!sco and ILO basic lists of instructional equip-
ment. The estimated costs of the various parts of the project and categories
of expenditure are given in Annex 8 and are summarized below:



- 13 -
Emalangeni (Millions)        US$ (Millions)         % of
Local Foreign Total       Local Foreign Total       Total
1. Civil Works
a. Technical and
Vocational       0.37    0.30    0.67       0.56    0.45    1.01        21
b. Teacher Train-
ing              0.07    o.o6    0.13       0.11    0.09    0.20         4
c. Curriculum
Development      0.07    o.o6    0.13       0.10    0.09    0.19         4
d. Rural Education  0.54   0.45    0.99        0.81    0.67    1.48        31
Sub-total          1.05    087    1.92        1.58    1.30    2.88        60
2.  Furniture           0.07    0.12    0.19       0.10    0.18    0.28         6
3.  Equipment           0.10    0.55    0.65       0.15    0.83    0.98        20
4. Professional
Services            0.13    0.08    0.21       0.19    0.12    0.31         6
5. Program Admini-
stration            0.07    0.04    0.11       0.10    o.o6    0.16         3
6. Technical
Assistance          o.o6    0.10    0.16       0.10    0.15    0.25         5
BASE TOTAL COST
before Contin-
gencies               4      1.76    3.214     2.22    2.64    4.86       100
7. Contingencies
Physical Contin-
gencies (8%)      0.13    0.13    0.26       0.20    0.20    0.40
Expected Price
Increases (36%)  0.59    0.67    1.26        0.88    1.00    1.88
Sub-total           0.72    0.80    L.52       1.08    1.20    2.28
TOTAL PROJECT COST       2.20    L.56    L.7L6     i        3A      L.



- 14 -
5.02      Customs Duties and Taxes.  Swaziland forms a customs union with
Botswana, Lesotho and the Republic of South Africa. Import duties and sales
taxes are not levied on official government purchases of furniture and equip-
ment. Construction materials originating within the customs union are tax
free. Altogether taxes (e.g., those on profits, fuels, incomes, locally pro-
cured furniture, equipment, and factory manufactured goods included in civil
works contracts) are estimated at US$0.41 million equivalent or about 12% of
the estimated local currency component of US$3.30 million equivalent.
5.03      Contingency allowances add 10% for unforeseen physical events to
the base cost estimates of civil works and furniture,and 5% for equipment.
Estimated annual price increases are detailed below:
Civil Works and
Year             Equipment: and Furniture       Professional Services
1974                      14%                            18%
1975                      11%                             15%
1976                     7.5%                            12%
1977                     7.5%                            12%
Contingencies for price increases have been calculated on the basis of the
implementation schedule (Chart 4).
5.04      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component has
been estimated at US$3.84 million equivalent or 54% of the total project cost
including contingencies and has been calculated as follows: (a) site devel-
opment and construction 45%; (b) furniture 65%; (c) equipment 85%; (d) pro-
fessional services and program administration 40%; and (e) technical assistance
60%. The foreign exchange component is high because much of the building
materials, furniture and equipment has to be imported, in spite of the efforts
to maximize the use of local materials being promoted as a part of the project
(para. 4.15).
5.05      Financial Plan.  The total project cost of US$7.14 million equiva-
lent would be financed as follows: (a) an IDA credit of US$5.0 million equiv-
alent would meet the foreign expenditures and 35% of the local currency ex-
penditures; and (b) the Government of Swaziland would finance from its own
resources the remaining local currency cost of US$2.14 million equivalent.
The financing plan is summarized by major components as follows:



- 15 -
US$ (Millions)
Swaziland                       Total
Government      IDA/IBRD        Project
1.   Civil Works
Technical and Vocational              0.33             0.68           1.01
Teacher Training                      0.07             0.13           0.20
Curriculum Development                0.06             0.13           0.19
Rural Education Centers               0.49             0.99           1.48
Sub-total                        0.95             1.93           2.88
2.   Furniture                             0.10             0.18           0.28
3.   Equipment                             0.15             0.83           0.98
4.   Professional Services                 0.10             0.21           0.31
5.   Program Administration                0.05             0.11           0.16
6.   Technical Assistance                  0.10             0.15           0.25
7.   Contingencies         .               0.69             1.59           2.28
Total                            2.14             5.00           7.14
5.06      The recurrent expenditures generated by the project would be about
US$525,000 p.a. when the project is fully operative; this would be equivalent
to some 8% of the project capital cost excluding technical assistance and to
about 3% of the projected Ministry of Education and Department of Labor (SITI)
budgets by 1978-79. The Government can meet its share of the capital cost
and this increase in recurrent costs without curtailing other high priority
activities and without over-burdening the educational budget.
5.07      Implementation.  The project would be implemented over a period of
5-1/2 years (Chart 4) after the date of credit effectiveness and an additional
six months would be required for the completion of payments and withdrawals
from the credit account.
5.08      Administration.  The Government is establishing a Program Imple-
mentation Unit with appropriate facilities and staff within the Ministry of
Education for: (a) supervision of implementation of the programs in support
of the education plan, including the proposed programs; (b) coordination with
the Ministries and others involved in the project; and (c) liaison with the
Association. The Unit would include a Program Director, an Accountant and
a Procurement Specialist selected in consultation with the Association and
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association. The Program Unit would
be provided with architectural assistance from the Ministry of Works (MOW)
School Facilities Unit, for coordination of, and liaison with, architectural/



- 16 -
engineering consultants and for the design and supervision of WPTTC, the Cur-
riculum Centers and the RECs. During negotiations, the Government gave assur-
ances that MOW assistance will be made available when requested by the Program
Implementation Unit. The establishment of the Program Unit and the employment
of the Program Director would be! conditions of effectiveness of the Credit.
The Program Unit's operational expenses, including salaries of the staff,
furniture, equipment, and a vehicle would be financed under the Credit.
5.09      Professional Services (Architectural/Engineering).  It is expected
that the services of consultants will be required for the design and super-
vision of the construction of SITI. The Ministry of Works Buildings Branch,
although understaffed at this time, is in the process of recruiting architec-
tural personnel to implement the MOW building program. The School Facilities
Unit of M4OW has been successfully standardizing primary and secondary school
facilities throughout the country, and these standard facilities could be
adapted to form the basis of the design of RECs, WPTTC and Curriculum Centers
included in this project. Assurances were given during negotiations that Lhe
MOW will strengthen their existing School Facilities Unit by providing addi-
tional architectural staff or by employing architectural consultants. A con-
dition of effectiveness of the Credit would be the appointment of consultants
for the SITI portion of the project, employed on terms and conditions acceptable
to the Association.
5.10      Procurement.  Contracts for civil works would be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's guide-
lines for procurement. It is unlikely that foreign firms with the exception
of those from the Republic of South Africa and Mozambique would be interested
in bidding. Project contracts would be grouped, as approved by the Association,
to encourage competitive bidding. Award of contracts would be on the basis of
the lowest evaluated bid on indi-7idual institutions or the lowest combination
thereof. Civil works firms would be pre-qualified in accordance with the Bank
Group's guidelines. The MOW dire3ct labor branch would be used to construct
schools if competitive tendering fails to produce reasonable bids. Self-help
methods would be employed on those project items where it is feasible. Domestic
civil works contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of 7.5%. Sketch
designs and draft tender documenw:s would be reviewed by the Association. Con-
tracts for civil works would not require review by the Association prior to
award unless they exceed US$150,000.
5.11      Contracts for furniture and instructional equipment would be on the
basis of international competiti're bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's
guidelines for procurement, except that procurement of instructional equipment,
books, and furniture costing less than US$20,000 up to an aggregate total of
US$150,000 would be on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and
in accordance witli local procedures, which are satisfactory to the Association.
Books could be procured at the publisher's price, plus a handling commission
which would be established by obtaining quotations from suitable suppliers.
Draft tender documents, master lists of furniture, instructional equipment



- 17 -
and books, including proposed grouping of these items for tendering, would be
submitted to the Association for review. Items would be grouped to the extent
practicable to encourage competition and bulk procurement. Domestic manufac-
turers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15% or the existing rates of
import duties whichever is the lower. Contracts for instructional equipment
and furniture would not require review by the Association, prior to award,
unless they exceed US$20,000 equivalent up to an aggregate total of US$150,000
equivalent.
Disbursement
5.12      Disbursement (Annex 9) would be on the basis of:  (a) 100% of foreign
expenditures for directly imported instructional equipment, furniture and
technical assistance or 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
furniture; and (b) 67% of total expenditures for civil works, professional
architectural/engineering services and program administration. Disbursement
for program administration would be made against a certificate of expend-
iture, documentation for which would not be submitted for review, but would
be retained by the Borrower and would be available for inspection by the
Association in the course of project supervision. All other disbursements
would be fully documented. Upon agreement between the Government of Swaziland
and the Association, any funds remaining on completion of the project may be
used for other project related items. Proc".ement is expected to be completed
by April 1978, and the project by June 30, 1980, with a proposed Closing Date
of December 31, 1980.
5.13      Retroactive Financing.  Retroactive reimbursement is recommended
for Program Implementation Unit expenditures, the services of consultant archi-
tects for the preparation of sketch plans of project institutions and advance
work on the WPTTC. This would assist in speeding up implementation. Retro-
active reimbursement should cover expenditures from September 1, 1974. The
amount of expenditure before the date of the Agreement is not expected to
exceed US$75,000, of which US$52,000 would be eligible for reimbursement.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      Benefits.  The project is an integral part of a long-term education
plan designed to assist Swaziland in developing the local high and middle level
manpower to participate in, and gain control of, the expanding modern sector
(para. 2.08) and, at the same time, in improving productivity and living stand-
ard of the Swazis still in the subsistence economy (para. 2.09). Although
several elements of this plan are receiving assistance from various bilateral
and multilateral agencies (para. 3.10), the items which comprise the proposed
Association project constitute the bulk of the first phase of the plan and
their implementation is vital to the attainment of the overall objectives of
Swaziland education development policy.



- 18 -
6.02      The benefits expected from the plan and the project can be summarized
in three principal categories: (a) meeting manpower requirements, both quanti-
tetively and qualitatively, for growth of, and replacement of expatriates in,
industry, commerce and services; (b) reducing economic and social disparities,
especially between the modern sector and the rural areas; and (c) supporting
administrative and organizational improvements within the education sector as
well as the development and application of curricula more closely related to
the Swazi environment and needs.
6.03      In particular, in the early 1980's the SITI--to be expanded under
the project (33% of the project cost)--would provide for almost all the in-
stitutional supply of technicians, skilled workers and commercial/administra-
tive personnel; as thie institutiLonal supply is expected to fall short of
medium-term needs, the project would give priority to the in-service training
of personnel already in employment in order to extend the capability of the
existing labor force to contribute to economic growth through increased pro-
ductivity. The Rural Education Centers (41%' of the proiect cost) would, at
the same time, promote the coortination and improved effectiveness of the on-
going nonformal education schemes (para. 2.09), develop specific programs for
school leavers and adults to prepare them for self-emnioyment in rural areas,
and provide for a more equitable distribution of educational. facilitties.  The
expansion and reorientation of teacher training, the support of curricula
development and student career guidance and emplovment follow-up would assist
areas of strategic significance towards administrative and organizational
reforms and the improved relevance of the education system in general.
6.04      Risks involved in the project.  The principal risk involved in
the project relates to the RECs Thich would intrcduce a new element into the
Swaziland educational, system.  Although the structure and 1Progi:ams outlined
for the RECs are based on patteris being used experimentally, but with con-
siderable promise, In other East Africar  countries (para. 4.09), considerable
coordination among Ministries andI Agencies would be recuired, and a great deal
of imagination would be needed in developing courses and teach.-ng methods;
primarily, the programs for adults at the RECs should be Practically oriented
and designed t;' enable the .rainees to increase their Incomes.  As u3-timately
the effective utilization of- the RECs would depend upon the quality of their
staff, the risk exilsts that, in Epite of the developmtenL of appropriate
programs unider the leadership of the Rural Development Council, some of nhe
RFCs would place undue emphasis cn the three-year course for primary school
leavers and neglect the nonformal courses for adults; in th-lis evenit, the ob-
jectives of the RECs would be lirited to the provision of a more equitable
distribution of educational servlces.  In order to minimize this risk, careful
monitoring would be supported under the project (para. 4,09). During nego-
tiations the Government confirmed its intention to prepare and send to the
Association for review a project completion report providing a preliminary
assessment of the project's results withlin six months from the Closing Date
of the Credit Agreement.
6.05      In spite of these risks, the project's objectives and expected
benefits point to its suitability as a part of the overall strategy to improve



- 19 -
Swaziland's infrastructure, expand its modern sector, increase agricultural
productivity and, especially, extend the national capability to formulate,
administer and execute development programs.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following prin-
cipal points:
(a)  the preparation of a rural education plan, draft curricula
for practical studies, the training of instructors for these
programs and the provision of technical assistance (paras.
4.09, 4.11 and 4.14);
(b)  the evaluation methodology to monitor the progress of the
project and the preparation of an assessment of the project's
result (paras. 4.09 and 6.04); and
(c)  the establishment and staffing of the Program Implementation
Unit and MOW support to the Unit (para. 5.08).
7.02      In addition to the customary conditions, the employment of the
Program Director, the establishment of a Program Implementation Unit and the
appointment of architectural consultants would be conditions of credit effec-
tiveness (paras. 5.08 and 5.09).
7.03      Retroactive financing of up to US$75,000 equivalent is recommended
for: (a) advance work on WPTTC; (b) the services of consulting architects to
prepare sketch plans for project institutions; and (c) Program Unit expend-
itures (para. 5.13).
7.04      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$5.0 million equivalent to the Kingdom
of Swaziland for a term of 50 years including a ten-year grace period.






APPENDIX
Page 1
SWAZILAND EDUCATION PROJECT
The Education and Training System
Historical Background
1.        Formal education in Swaziland began in 1840 with the arrival of the
first missionaries. As their numbers grew so did the number of their schools
until, today, more than 75% of the country's schools are operated by Catholic,
Anglican, Nazarene, Methodist, or Evangelical missions. The locations of these
schools were determined by the missions themselves with the result that some
areas have a surplus of educational facilities while others, mainly rural, have
none. The disparity is especially noticeable in the field of secondary educa-
tion. The rapid development of mission schools has been responsible for a
comparatively high rate of literacy (some 30% of the adult population) but
literary subjects have been stressed at the expense of science and mathematics
and curricula have had little relation to the country's environment and needs.
As a result of financial assistance provided to the mission schools, the Gov-
ernment is now in a position to implement a program for major improvements in
curricula, teaching standards, and examination methods.
Administration
2.        The Ministry of Education has administrative, financial and academic
control over Swaziland's general education system. The Ministry administers
the programs of primary schools, secondary schools, and teacher training.
The Ministry is also responsible for the Swaziland branch of the University
of Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland (UBLS) and its affiliated Swaziland Agricul-
tural College University Center (SACUC).
3.        In addition to the educational institutions administered by the
Ministry of Education, there are education/training programs operated by
other Ministries and Agencies. These include:
(a) The Farmer Training Centers and the Agricultural Extension
Program administered by the Ministry of Agriuclture;
(b)  The Staff Training Institute (civil service training) and the
Works and Communication training programs administered by the
Ministry of Establishments and Training;
(c) The Sebenta National Institute (literacy program) administered
by the Ministry of Local Administration;
(d) The Swaziland Industrial Training Institute (SITI) adminis-
tered by the Department of Labor of the Deputy Prime Minis-
ter's Office;
(e) A Training Program for Nurses under the Ministry of Health;



APPENDIX
Page 2
(f) The Youth Training Center (GCINA) under the Ministry of
Establishments and Training; and
(g) Various private training programs operated by mining, sugar,
timber and railroad corporations.
4.        There are 2,500 teachers in the school system of whom 2,300 are paid
by the Government. The central staff of the Ministry of Education totals about
100 of whom only 35 are at the professional level. The Ministry is organized
as shown in Chart 3.
5.        Efforts are under we.y to expand and improve the staff of the Inspec-
torate Division. There is particular need to strengthen supervisory/advisory
personnel in the practical subject areas because of the introduction of prac-
tical subjects in secondary schools. The Planning and Statistics Division
includes only two professionals. To be fully effective the Division should
have an additional planner and an economist.
6.        The Research and Curriculum Development Division is beginning to
operate satisfactorily followir.g the introduction of bilateral technical
assistance. With advice from the newly established Curriculum Revision Com-
mittee, the Division completed a basic revision of the primary school curricu-
lum in December 1973; the seconlary school curriculum revision is to be completed
in 1974. With the introduction of practical subjects in the secondary school
curriculum, the Division needs tapecialists in commercial training, rural educa-
tion and pre-vocational training. Provision must also be made for the publica-
tion and distribution of the new textbooks and teaching materials which are be-
ing developed.
7.        The Ministry of Education administers the William Pitcher Teacher
Training College directly and, through grants-in-aid, exercises control over
the Nazarene Teacher Training CoLlege, the only other teachers' college i-n
Swaziland.
8.        The University of Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland (UBLS) branch in
Swaziland includes a two-year (Part one) program at the Kwaluseni campus and
a three-year diploma agricultural program at the Swaziland Agricultural College
University Center (SACUC) at Luyengo. The SACUC program will be extended in
1975 to a four-year degree progran in agriculture and animal health.
9.        The Ministry of Education submits the budget for the Swaziland share
of the University expenses but exercises virtually no control over its courses
or programs. The Permanent Secretary for Education is a member of the UBLS
Governing Council. The University also serves Botswana and Lesotho and each
country has its own UBLS branch campus (Botswana and Swaziland both offer only
the first two years of degree work); the budgets of all three units are admin-
istered by the Vice-Chancellor at the Roma Campus in Lesotho. This tri-
national sharing of the budget leals to differences of opinion in financial
and other policy matters, but at the present stage of development Swaziland
alone could not afford to support a full-fledged university.



APPENDIX
Page 3
Structure
10.       The school year runs from January to December.  Primary education
begins at the age of six and lasts seven years (grades 1 to 7). There are
still large numbers (10%) of over-age students in the primary schools but en-
rollment of over-age students is being phased out. The dropout rate is high;
only 25% of those who enter primary school complete the full cycle. The sec-
ondary school course of five years comprises three years in lower (grades 8 to
10) and two years in upper secondary classes (grades 11 and 12). Entrance to
both levels is by competitive examination. At the end of the lower secondary
course (grade 10), a Junior Certificate (JC) examination is offered. At the
end of the upper secondary course (grade 12), the Cambridge Overseas School
Certificate (COSC) examination is offered. Both examinations are set and ad-
ministered by a regional examination council for Botswana, Lesotho and Swazi-
land, but are broadly patterned on British examinations. Of the 63 secondary
schools 22 are Government schools and the remaining 41 are private schools
receiving Government grants-in-aid.
1t.       Vocational training, nursing training and primary teacher training
all require the Junior Certificate for entry. All three programs require two
years for completion. Post-secondary education includes technician training,
though still embryonic, secondary teacher training, agricultural diploma level
training and the university. University entrance is by examination and selec-
tion by the Scholarship Committee. In 1972, 235 Swazi students were enrolled
in UBLS and 84 students were attending overseas universities.
General Education
12.       Primary education (grades 1 to 7) is conducted in English after grade
three. The local language, Siswati, is used in grades 1 to 3. Total enroll-
ment in 1972 was 78,000 or the equivalent of 67% of the 6-12 age group. Enroll-
ment growth has averaged 5% p.a. over the past six years. Fifty-two percent
of the pupils are girls. All schools, whether Government schools or not, are
subsidized by Government. The system of automatic promotion has recently been
adopted. This will eventually eliminate repeaters, thus making additional
places available to help meet the needs for growth.
13.       The average enrollment per school is 195 pupils.  This number is too
small to permit efficient use of staff and facilities, and efforts are being
made to consolidate some of the smaller schools. One third of the teachers
are regarded as under-qualified and a program of in-service training has been
mounted with Unesco assistance to improve their qualifications. Additional
facilities are needed at the William Pitcher Teacher Training College to expand
both pre-service and in-service teacher training to meet the needs for growth
and replacement, and would be provided as a part of the proposed project.
14.       The primary school curriculum includes English, social studies, mathe-
matics and science. Agriculture and exposure to practical subjects will be
added in the new curriculum. The mathematics and science courses have been
completely revised and teachers are being trained to teach the new courses.



APPENDIX
Page 4
15.       General secondary education with a total enrollment of 10,500 in 1972
accounted for 18% of the 13-17 age group. Eighty-five percent of the total
enrollment was in lower secondary (grades 8-10) courses; forty-eight percent
were boys. The dropout rate is high, particularly at grade 10. Secondary
school enrollment has doubled since 1968, growing at the rate of 15% p.a.
It is planned to reduce this rate of expansion to 5% p.a.
16.       There are 491 secondary school teachers, 306 of whom are expatriates.
There are 80 under-qualified teachers. A major retraining program is in oper-
ation to improve the qualifications of Swazi teachers at the secondary level.
17.       The curriculum stresses literary subjects but is being revised to
include practical subjects such as agriculture, industrial arts, and domestic
science. Twelve of the secondary schools have already introduced practical
subjects into their teaching programs. Revisions in the science and mathematics
courses are in process together with related teacher training.
18.       Vocational training programs are available at the SITI where courses
of 1 to 2-1/2 years duration are offered in carpentry, plumbing, building,
electrical, motor mechanics and fitting and turning. The total enrollment is
260. The teaching staff of 53 instructs at both craft and technician levels.
19.       Technician education and training provided by SITI caters for 110
students enrolled in three-year programs, one year of which is on the job.
Training is offered in communications, mechanical engineering, motor vehicles,
electrical and construction fields. Expansion of vocational and technical
training to meet the needs of the growing industrial sector would be greatly
helped by the proposed project.
20.       Commercial and administrative training for government employees has
been available through the civil service Staff Training Institute. The Staff
Training Institute has, in the past, been concerned with pre-service clerical
training but will now move to in-service training eliminating clerical training
and concentrating on courses for government administrative officers. The SITI
has recently taken over training in typing and bookkeeping for both private and
public sectors and plans to expand and broaden this program to cover a wide
range of business/commercial subjects. Those plans would be assisted by the
proposed project.
21,       Hotel and Catering training is provided by SITI at the Seteki Hotel
Training Center 70 miles east of Mbabane. Thirty students p.a. are trained in
catering housekeeping and hotel management. It is planned to move this training
to the SITI campus in Mbabane as a part of the proposed project to facilitate
expansion and achieve economies.
22.       In addition to the courses described above, there are other special-
ized pre-service and in-service courses offered by a number of Ministries. The
Ministry of Health administers three-year nursing training programs with 75



APPENDIX
Page 5
enrolled and plans to introduce courses for health inspectors and health assist-
ants. A tri-national para-medical training institution is planned to be estab-
lished as a part of UBLS. The Ministry of Works, Power and Communications offers
in-service training in construction and communication with 25 enrolled.
23.       Primary and Lower-secondary teacher training is provided by the
William Pitcher Teacher Training College (Government), the Nazarene Teacher
Training College (a missionary institution) and UBLS. Of the 331 students
enrolled in 1972 in the two-year courses at the William Pitcher Teacher Train-
ing College and the Nazarene Teacher Training College, 90 were in the lower-
secondary teacher training program. UBLS offers diploma and degree courses
for teachers through the Faculty of Education. About 25 are enrolled in these
programs.
24.       Technical teacher training for secondary school teachers is provided
by the SACUC and the SITI. These institutions are responsible for the techni-
cal content in agricultural, domestic science, commercial and technical subjects
while the pedagogical aspects are the responsibility of the William Pitcher
Teacher Training College. Domestic science teachers for primary schools are
taught at the William Pitcher Teacher Training College. There are 34 teachers
of these practical subjects in the secondary schools. The number of secondary
practical teachers will have to be expanded r.rinsiderably when the new currucu-
lum comes into operation throughout the secondary schools of Swaziland. 1/
25.       University Education.  The UBLS program in Swaziland has two divi-
sions: the UBLS arts and science program providing the first two years of
University education at the Kwaluseni Campus, and the Swaziland Agricultural
College University Center (SACUC) at Luyengo offering diploma and, soon, degree
level courses in agriculture and animal health. There are 175 students at the
Swaziland Campus of UBLS starting t-heir degree work and 125 students at SACUC,
60 of whom are Swazis. It is expected that the two divisions will each expand
their enrollment to 200 students by 1976.
26.       UBLS was established in Lesotho in 1964 as a tri-national university
serving Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland. Six years later a Part One (first
two college years) center was opened in Swaziland. The Swaziland University
Center moved into permanent quarters in 1973. The University Center offers
courses leading to degrees in arts, science, administration, economics, educa-
tion and law. The UBLS recurrent expenses are pro-rated among the three parti-
cipating countries. Capital funds, and some staff salary funds, are provided
by bilateral donors, primarily Canada, Denmark, Sweden, the United Kingdom and
the United States. The Faculty of Education works closely with the Ministry
of Education on teacher training and curriculum development. Teacher certifi-
cation and the Examination Council are both under the direction of UBLS. The
UBLS Division of Extra-Mural Services (DEMS) is becoming increasingly active
in Swaziland's adult education program. The University has a strong commit-
ment to assist Swaziland in developing both the public and private sectors.
It is planned to expand and extend the existing USAID-financed curricu-
lum development project over an eight-year period with additional tech-
nical assistance, fellowships, equipment and housing.



APPENDIX
Page 6
27.       National College.  A: the result of a recent study and report by the
Overseas Liaison Committee of the American Council of Education, all three coun-
tries (Botswana, Lesotho and Suaziland) are giving serious consideration to the
establishment in each country of a new institution which would be called the
"National College." The function of the College would be to coordinate all
of the institutions offering ncndegree, post-secondary edcuation: Teacher
Training, Technician Training, Business Training, Para-medical Training, Agri-
cultural Training and the first two years of university education. The benefits
of this consolidation would be: (a) sharing of instructional services and
facilities; (b) reduced staffing costs; (c) larger class sizes with better
facilities and staff utilization; (d) improved educational quality; and (e) a
more cohesive and responsive means of providing for middle level manpower
needs. Swaziland's Cabinet has already approved the National College in prin-
ciple. The proposed project would be in harmony with the National College
concept.
Nonformal Education
28.       Adult Education in Swaziland consists, primarily, of a literacy pro-
gram operated by the Sebenta National Literacy Institute under the Ministry of
Local Administration. The national literacy rate is approximately 30% and it
is estimated that 150,000 adult illiterates remain to be made literate and nu-
merate. Sebenta plans to elimirate illiteracy by 1980. The program is well-
planned and adequately staffed and makes extensive use of posters, booklets,
and radio broadcasts.  Duplicating facil 4ties are excellent and include mimeo-
graph, printing and silk-screen processing.  Literacy classes meet 3 times pet
week for 12 weeks and 80% of those enrolled comiplete the course and pass t|ie
test. There are nore than 100 groups in session throughout the year. There
is an effective follow-up progran aimed at maintaining the literacy level
already acquired. Other Ministries with rural training programs (Health,
Agriculture, Education, etc.) make use of Sebenta's printing, illustrating
and translating facilities to reproduce required training materials.
29.       Responsibility for nonformal training for rural and agricultural
development in Swaziland is sharfd by several agencies but, until recently,
their programs have not been coordinated. In 1973 the Rural Development Council
was created to plan and coordinate these efforts and integrate them with invest-
ment programs in rural areas. The Council is proving effective and progress
is being made in coordinating programs and in making joint use of staff and
facilities. The principal programs operating at present are summarized be'low:



APPENDIX
Page 7
Nonformal Training for Rural Development in Swaziland
Type of Course    Institution            Agency       Target Population
1.   Agricultural Farmer Training  Ministry of       Farmers and Wives
Training     Centers           Agriculture
2.   Extension    Field Staff       Ministry of       Farmers
service                        Agriculture
3.   Development  Cooperative        Ministry of     Farmers and Wives
of Coopera-  Centers           Commerce
tives
4.   Health        Health Clinics   Ministry of       Total Population
Training                       Health
5.   Nutrition-   Nutrition          Ministry of     Wives of Farmers
Domestic     Centers           Agriculture
Science
Training
6.   Community    C.D. Centers       Ministry of      Rural Population
Development                    Local Adminis-
Training                       tration
7.   Youth Train- Youth Center       Establishments  Youth
ing                            and Training
8.   Sebenta       Schools           Ministry of      Adults
Literacy                       Local Adminis-
Training                        tration
It can be seen that the rural education effort is made up of a variety of
offerings, at scattered locations, under various agencies. The Rural Devel-
opment Council is in the process of reorganizing these programs to improve
their effectiveness; it is expected that the reorganization would require
little additional capital expenditure.
30.       Within this context, Farmer Training Centers (FTCs) are undergoing
an intensive review with regard to their role in the agricultural sector.
Only two FTCs are now in operation; a third is closed temporarily and the
fourth has been converted into an animal husbandry research station. Their
future role will depend on the form which agricultural education takes in the
school system and the facilities made available to farmers through the school
programs. Attendance and courses offered by the FTCs are presented below:



APPENDIX
Page 8
Courses at Two Farmer Training Centers
1973
Subject                        No. of Courses            Attendance
Tobacco Production                   20                       550
Grain Storage                         16                      220
Animal Husbandry                       8                      160
Cotton Production                     6                        95
Home Economics                         6                       75
Cooperatives                          6                        85
Poultry Keeping                        2                       28
Vegetable Production                   2                       88
Maize Production                       4                       52
Field Days                            4                       540
74                    1,893
Source:   Ministry of Agriculture.
31.       Agricultural Education is being introduced as a subject in both
primary and secondary school curricula. Seven primary and eight secondary
schools have already begun this new program and it will be introduced in other
schools, at both levels, each year until all schools are covered. A syllabus
requiring 8 study periods each week has been developed to cover both class-
room and field work. Tools, materials and sheds are being provided and ex-
patriate volunteer teachers are serving until Swazi teachers are trained. Irn
addition, 225 schools also have school garden programs which provide practical,
but not classroom, training for the students. The school garden program re-
ceives financial support from UIIICEF, OXFAM and the ODM. Both programs have
been received positively by stucdents and their parents. Assignment to work
in the garden is treated as a privilege, not a punishment, with the result that
students compete for garden ass:Lgnments. Produce from the gardens is used to
supplement the students' noon meals. The enthusiastic reception of this new
agricultural education program suggests that a broader practical studies program
would be well received.
32.       Extension Services, under the Ministry of Agriculture, include not
only agricultural advice and service but also veterinary, domestic science and
nutritional services. There are 120 agricultural field officers, 215 veteri-
nary officers and 30 domestic science/nutrition field officers in this cadre.
The Ministry plans to enlarge this force considerably and to improve the quality
of the staff over the next five years. The Rural Education Centers promoted
under the proposed project are expected to facilitate the work of the exten-
sion workers and to make it more effective.  The two-year certificate course
for field officers at the Swaziland Agricultural College University Center
(SACUC) is being replaced by a three-year, post-secondary diploma course. SACUC
will also take over the training of domestic science and nutrition officers.



APPENDIX
Page 9
33.       Cooperatives and Uealth Training are carried on by making use of
clinics, schools, FTCs and other rural facilities on an itinerant basis. Both
programs need additional qualified field staff and would also benefit if de-
signated centers could be established from which their services could be dis-
pensed on a regular basis. The Rural Education Centers included in the pro-
posed project would be used to meet some of these needs.
34.       The only Youth Training Center operating in Swaziland accommodates
no more than 120 students per year. It cannot meet the needs of the more than
7,500 school leavers each year and the cost of the Center prohibits its repli-
cation for this purpose. The proposed Rural Education Centers are expected
to be eventually expanded to provide training for many of this school leaver
population.
35.       Nonformal Academic Training is provided on a limited scale by some
of the secondary schools in the Mbabane and Manzini areas and by the UBLS
Division of Extre-Mural Services (DEMS). Most of the secondary schools' evening
classes cater to students who wish to complete Junior Certificate or Cambridge
Overseas School Certificate education. The existing DEMS courses concentrate
upon business studies, accounting and related fields but DENS plans to begin
rural courses in cooperative management, credit and farm marketing soon. Total
present enrollment is less than 500.
Financing of Education
36.       Education is financed by the Government, voluntary agencies and
family expenditures. Estimates of voluntary agencies' contributions are not
available. Parental contributions in 1972/73 were estimated at E 1.06 million
at the primary level, and E 689,000 at the secondary level, averaging E 13.5
for each primary pupil and E 60.0 for each secondary pupil. These payments
cover school fees, books, curriculum materials and uniforms. The Government's
total recurrent expenditure in 1972/73 amounted to E 21.7 million, of which
E 3.7 million was expended by the Ministry of Education, and about E 649,000
for educational activities under other Ministries. Therefore, education
accounted for some 20% of Government recurrent expenditure. Without foreign
assistance, education was estimated in 1970/71 to be about 4.3% of GDP, a ratio
similar to that of many other developing countries.
37.       In addition to estimated parental contributions to the financing of
education noted in para. 36, other income from parents, mainly charges for
boarding, amounted to E 74,600, bringing the total parental input to E 1.8
million.
38.       The distribution of the Ministry of Education's recurrent expendi-
ture, and that of the SITI, in 1972/73 as given in Annex 5, shows the high
proportion of expenditure absorbed by "University Education" and the relatively
low proportion devoted to "Teacher Training" and "Technical Education."



APPENDIX
Page 10
39.       The distribution of the Ministry of Education's recurrent expenditure
by category in 1972/73 is given below. It shows the high proportions allocated
to "Personal Emoluments" (teachers' salaries) and to UBLS.
Recurrent Expenditure - Ministry of Education
Breakdown by Category (1972/73)
Personal               Hostel    Equip-    Bursaries
Emolu-   Adminis-      Mainte-   ment           and /1 Univer4sy  Tctal
ments    tration       nance      Grants    Grants -  Grants -
Amount (E'000)   2.40        .26        .14        .13          .07      .74         3.74
% of Total       64.2 /3   6.9         3.7       3.5          1.9      19.8        100.0
11   Exclusive of bursaries to students at William Pitcher Teacher Training
College and SITI.
/2   Exclusive of study-loans provided by Department of Establishments and
Training.
/3   Inclusive of teachers' allowances.
Source:   1972/73 Recurrent Estimates of Public Expenditure, Ministry of
Education.



COMOPARATIVE EDUCATION INDIrATORS
Africa
Public     -                                                                                                                            Annual 1
Education       7. of ON?                                                                                    ...ecodary    Higher         Otput
GNP/CapIta       Liituc       Epudcuu   Deno.ted t  .   cIf Tctal                                                         Secon.dary       Itudu-te  Et.r.ltcet   fran High.r
Popuistio-    ut facto            Rane        Pcr Cupica   Educatiuc          PubIcI        Pei-ary         Prinary         ec..ud-rY   Erluat              Par           i            dcco
cost                        (Mtsnbc         (Public      Epc-di-tuna     Ecro11-t   Stadects            -nucilnuni        in           Oachu        A iccun             par
Yuan    (Millious)    (iccuc             (7. of        Pnicoa       Enpu-icucas  Do-ccd to            Ratio           a             Ra tIo        Oosto          (full-cOns       acd           11.00.
196  08$)s          Adults       El))           only)         Educatioc         Nut          T sachar         Net          Srhccsquvl           su)   ugcusg             Paplatlo-
()      2)            (3)            (41            (53            (6)            (2              8)             (93(0 1) (12)                                                (13)
fcoa idu ud.caicc  daml crc coo~ tn   Ic  h        1. Aigunis               70        14.3           300              2351           35            10.5           20.0           51              42               9              22             20             6 
cha cceyoiu  of ca1ati-taccco  cd.caib-                  2. Ca- -co                70         3.8           160              ...             6             3.0           20.0           74             48                8             23              25             4             7
Oocu    - cthu 1bas:ic of the p-c... i dat,         3. C. A. a.               70         1.i           140..                            5             4.0           20.0           73X0           0440i                                          3
oith.. tina...auti ... ..ut  pruccu   Eutup                 .cad7,.6                                         h                               3D1           4.3 N6        14,3 1         33              72               2               0             30            .       
fo lcu_co   _toic  ao  hauc:  Iiute    ianocly by               d                   0         36              0 
the                              -          _bcucc    rcgorooc   onu; tc 3   Oi   0  70       0.9           300              30?            14l            3.8           23.2           8               91                              i2
zn_ci    tfoete boo  b-cu  -cde to s1tadardics            6. Ethiopia              72        25.i            34                7             9             2.8           20.0            17             31               3               3             35            1i             4
acurcyo  the 1 dta.  NIinoucrbclus    such doto    7. fabuc                   68        0.5 P          630              30 D?          11Ci           3.3 C         33.7 f         73             40Ei             10             48              1        
orsacil iupactec   10 oc-el  -estt  utd
tho loch ie uceico to lrro   chat progee-                0. Gbaca                  70         8.6           310              ...            13             4.7           21.7 Q         74              29               0              4              18            15E0          13 7
In thc  -io  of ibto  doc,  hb  fofife   6u8 .bryfn                                h          4.9 F         310 F             9 A           104.f                        2.4440883
fiI.Ii_   h-ld  . b.-I  -   i.d;10. Encye                            70       14.3 P          130 F            30D0            00. 1,1                     20.10          hO             34               10              2             22            29 D            3 A
i-cfd-e uii nductftcdricitg,  ieoul                     11. 1.euocho               73         4.1            90              40              41            4. 7          32.0654812201.4
-d                                         11~~~~~~~~~~0. Libuefo    73         0.3           240              13              a             3.7           01.7           30 0            3i              12X              6             16            12 C           9C
2)  ''Peicsoy'' udc-ti-n  -f-e  t- cdoc-
tioc a  the i. f     icoci  oud ''o...cdcey'  ado-       03. tontuo                 70        f.2           140              10              2             4.3           70.0           13 0            22               3              13             24            iN..
noti e      -eter    tui   aducaiua t ica. sacI o-dary
eafc-ediee-  If cypa (a.g.  ucc1,tech-              14. M .u.ciit-             72        0.8           260              00              12             3.7           01.7           86             31              30               2             30            29            60
13. Cu-cc                 70        13.3           230              20              9             4.1 N         17.4           34              35              12               3             22             3             7A0
30  ''V-iccica0' uduictioc  (C.I. 101
iuciudue  -uc1luuc  it  -ohuiof            aical
ocrfcuiturol,occoticealotdhtna.ecctcuin  hIlianla             ~~71      51.1?F         120               ...             3             3.20N         ...            34X            37                4             18              23           16              6
circ                                                 17. Ruo-da                 73        4.0            5523                             30            3.20H        20.01H          52.0           51                2              6             13            ...3
40  "Lite...ty cant' (C.i. 31 Ic    sal              .snga                     9         41             3?1
otief-oucc-t-ocuoueu.    unoy  Il                   -        g16                         41H           20                               11P           400 H          22.18R         431            46                8X            279            23              Of           6A
cuoctr Ico thcy ore c-ly e,ppncu-ti-cln ad it
edutfitu  o-y -eifteco frio iei-no I             19   Siena  noe            h8        2.6 P          190 PI0YA                        4             2,9           19.5 f         32             30               13              7C             257           17             7C
h-tnne    c  beau f.11-ud    _itoecau i'y;
5)  "P,ibli~~~~~~                     20.  bSneil                73         3.1            75                3              2            . ..           7.0           13              32               3              18             18            12             3
((,l.   1 cud cI eae-  cu eii maialod                    20.   uan73                          10.5           13                )h4.5                                      13.2           30             f5                0              3              20            17            23
--.rratenpaudcuurda         . cotad t,  dcto
by pnblif  aud  Iue.uLIcuga_ie-;                         272. qnueilaud             72          .3           250              28             18             4.3 F         00.7            50             38              f5               4             20             0               .03
0)"ctoeiecsfco   7 oud 9)                          03 .r-atai.                72        02.9            60DI            49               3            3.8         151.9             35             382201
of  liigible children unr1ld   Lultisi  the    24. Ug-ndu                           70         9.8           130              25 A            6             5.2 N         20.3 Q         46 tu           36               4uF           11              21            10 
appcpnccnohtt, puhilo cnd P.toa.a by
len i.Thny are of to  eu c   te a  idde  ca-             23. Oppac V.1ta            72         3.4 F          64 F             3              2             4.0           27.6           10             45                2              523                           6 
gic of  Lrcei  thc d-clcicin0cu--i-e
cuIng t  oorio ins  Oc  ~he uccucy cf b-a e        26O. Z.ita                 70        10.8            90              13              8             3.7 14        19.0 0         78             44                0             20              24            10             2 6
-nriiuc-) .  fi-cie-   focutta  fcqu-tiy                 27. zaubia                 71         4.3           353              43F            27             5.h           17.4           89x 0so                         1202
i-cl-io    L is udcie-d by f-_c       _ ietac   coIII-                                                                                 -_______
infl-uteherie
sy.hele.. . Det-    -iatlblahi                                     Ste:  A    1965 on befura    El  wfueet pni...                                        Soucs ..     olunn-  (1)  -nd (2)          1Wanld Tablee  (BcI))
-  hguinude cil or ueligihle                                  1   1968                 N =        P.?                                                                                    Pon.isca P..Ifie
11clgui tde lose  than balf If u.it saployd                   C   1962                 P    incld,igionig a1=     id11                                 folnu :(3) -(9) and (1i)          IBRDu i..i.a.o.
0Qatieual                                                  D   1 968                        __Iauna  g_ot  scecyflns(l0..(12) and (13) i  U-a- Onatacita  Onhe
E 1969                iU Public oly                                                                                     cadTIN  Mfissiuc
F   1970                 V I- Fucldin   pnivataac-pudiecn
C    1971       1        X - alodina  -nanagd s-dauts
H -I972                  0     u_ae  oecs
Oce-ho, 1974






S W A Z I L A N D
EDUCATION PROJSCT
Employment (1970-1972) and Manpower Needs (1972-19b2)
I.   Estimates of Employment, 1970-1972
September 1970              September 1971                 September 1F72
Private sector wage employment
Agriculture and forestry                17,438                       19,865                        2)4,159
Mining and quarrying                     2,907                        2,926                         2,950
Manufacturing                            5,383                        5,837                         6,512
Construction                             1,002                        1,350                         2,107
Distribution                             3,423                        3,842                         3,842
Transport                                  479                          537                           775
Finance                                    344                          427                           580
Social services                          2,200                        2,346                         2,842
Sub-total                          33,176                      37,130                         43,767
Public sector                            9,250                        9,921                        10,089
Total wage employment                   42,426                       47,051                        53,856
II.  Middle and High Level Manpower Projections, 1972-1982
1 9 7 2                                1 9 8 2
Attrition       Total
Employ-   Non-    Vacan-                Locali-             10
Education level Required           ment     Swazi    cies        Growth   zation   p.a.   Years    Required
University degree                    635      475       40         400        475     11      110       1,025
Specialized post-secondary         3,300      800      200       2,100        800     60      600       3,700
Secondary plus on-the-job
training                         1,100      550       4o         700       550      25      250       1,540
JC plus on-the-job training        4.510       900     210       2.7b0        yO     -CI   1.000        4.850
Total                              52.4    2,725       490       5.980      2.725    196   1.960       11,155
Note:  The projection assumes full replacement of the expatriates by 1982 and very conservative annual rates
of growth in employment (5%) and attrition (2% of high and middle level manpower).  It is to be noted
that a 5% annual rate of growth in employment implies a productivity increase of over 3% p.a. In
addition, an annual rate of attrition of 2% implies an average working life of about 40 years.
Sources:  Bank Group staff estimates on the basis of the Swaziland Eaployment and Wages Survey 1972, and
1969 Manpower Survey and Projections by the Government Statistical Office.



S W A Z I L A N D
EWCATION PROJ 3T
High and Middle Level Manpower
Employment (1972) and Requirements (1972-1982)
Admin-                    Co"ercial-    Skilled and
Professional   Yanagers    Technical      Clerical       Seni-Skilled        Total
1972 ERnlo3uent
Swazis                      120          570           610          1,385          3,645            6,330
Non-Swazis                  475          360           750            675             465            2,725
Vacancies                    020                      lb65           175_
TOTAL                    635          250         1,525          2,235          4,200            9,5145
1972-1982 Requireonts
Growth                      399          597           959          1,363           2,662            5,980
Vacancies                    40           20           165            175              90              490
Localization                475          360           750            675             465            2,725
Attrition                    99           198            4            448           -901             1960
TOTAL                  1,013        1,175         2,188          2,661          4i118            11 A5
Note:  Assumptions are detailed in Annex 2.
Source:  Bank Group staff estimates on the basis of data of the Swaziland Central Statistical Office.



ANNA k
Page I of 2 pages
SWAZI LAND
EDUCATION PROJECT
The General Education System, 1972
Primary Schools:
Number of schools *.ooee.oee*ee.o.oo..oo.o..oo.oeoeooooo      392
Total Enrollment  .. Males 48%, Femalos 52%  ............    76,343
AS a percentage of the 6-12 years age group                   67%
Enrollment by Grade:
Grade               1       2       3       4       5       6        7
Enrollment       15,864  12,856  12,389  11,1142  9,436   7,745    6,911
Dropout Rate   I   6.6    3*0    9.4        7.8   10.0      9.6     19.6
Number passing Grade 7 Examination   About 3,500
Primary Teachers:
Total number ........................o.....*    2,015
Number without teaching Certificates  .......   722
Teacher turnover ..............a               20% p.a. (approx.)
Student/teacher ratio  ........*OO***..***..  38:1
Salary range (1973) (annual) ......o.........  min, = US$  550.00
Max. - US$3,200.eO
Secondary Schools:
Number of schools ..........................      63
Total enrollment ..............lo. 10,664
As a percentage of the 13-17 age group  .....    18%
Enrollment by Grade:
Grade                       1      2      3      4      5       Total
1972                      3,991  2s971  2,025   970    707    10,664
1973                      3,855  3,290  2,1431 1,110   799     11 ,485
Dropout Rate (1972)                5     42.5  16.6  92.7



ANNEX IL
Page 2 of 2 pages
Secondary Schools (Cont'd)
Number Receiving Certificates in 1972:
Junior Certificate Level   -  1,,438
COSC Level                -    650
Total Number of teachers *eo.e....,.e......    491
Number of expatriate teachers  .....  306
Number of uncertified teachers  ....  82
Teacher Salary Range (Annual):
Minimum                Maximum
1972                   US$2,600                US$7,100
Teacher/Student Ratio:       1:20L1
Weekly School Hours:
Primary  *.eoooe*.eeee*e.ee.eeeeoeeee  30 hours
Secondary  *eooe,'eeeeo.eee*oee      oe*  35 hours
Vocational  .0e o.eeee.eeeeeee.oee  40 hours
Weekly Teaching (contact) Hours:
Primary  ...                                   26 hours
Secondary  *.........e...........e.e....O.  28 hours
Vocational  **       *ee.oe......*..e.e  35 hours
Length of School Year:
Primary  *eoeoooeeooeo*..oee*,..eO.  38 weeka
Secondary  *eoeo7eoooe*eeeeeeeeeeoeoee  36 weeks
Vocational                                     40....oooooeo*e.*,e*.eeeooe*  h0 weeks
/I This comparatively low ratio iB the result of the small size of schools.
Source: Ministry of Education



SWA Z I L A N D
EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Public Recurrent Expenditures for Education and Enrollments
(1972/73)
Recurrent
Expenditures                                             Unit Cost
Type                                     E 000's               %           Enrollments              (E)
Primary                                  1,475.2              37.4            78,625                18.7
Secondary                                1,036.0              26.2            11,485                90.2
Teacher Training                           237.6               6.o               269               883.3
Technical Training Li                      226.1               5.7               370               611.0
University                                 74o.4              18.8               235             3,150.0
Administration and Other                   231.2               5.9
Total                               3,946.5             100.0
As a percentage of total
Government Recurrent
Expenditure                              18.2%
Li   SITI, the Department of Labor.
Source:  Bank Group staff estimates on the basis of data supplied by Ministry of &ducation, Department
of Establishments and Training and Office of the Deputy Prime Minister.



SW A Z I L A N D
EDUCATION PROJECT
Annual Student Output by Specialty 1972-1982
Institution          1972    193      12.2    1217  Mg    M1972    19.0    1981    1982                            Tot
SITI
Technician           10       12      27      42       73      82       95     105      105     105      105       761
Craft                 75      80      90      112     112     112      112     115      115     115      115     1,153
Commerce               0      60      60       60      60      60       60      60       60      60       60       600
Hotel                 15      20      30       35      50      120     130     144      144     144      144        976
Managers/Admini8-                              0       0       20      20      20       350
trators
Total            100      172     207      249 5    fi     394      417     444      454     454      45L     3,614o
Teacher Trainin
WPTTC                105     110     109      115     130      130     130     130      130     130      130     1,349
NITC                 42       47      50       60      75       75      75      75       75      75       75        724
UBLS                 25       25      25       25      25      30       30      40       40      50       50       365
SACUC                 0        0       0       20      20      20       30      30       40      40       40       240
SITI                  0        0      10       10      10      15       15       20      20       20      20       140
Total            172      182     1914    230      260     270      280     295      305     315      315     2,818
Nursing                 25      25      25       35      35       35      45      45       65      65       65        465
Secondary School       707             939 2-   l0    1 226   1,329      3     1,538   1,749   1,929   1 701    14,322
Primary School  6, 911   7,578   8,175   89   8 696   7,900 4811Q   8   87   8,843   9,675  10,216    93,200
Note:  Part-time and in-service trainees not incluided in totals.
Source: Ministry of Education and bank staff estimatesD.



ANNEX 7
5 W A Z I L A N D
EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimates of Enrollment and Expenditures
in Ministry of Education and Department of Labor 1972-1985
(at current prices)
Enrollment
Type of             1972-1973 (Actual)      1979-1980 (Estimate)    1984-1985 (Estimate)
Institution              Enrollment                Enrollment               Enrollment
Primary                    78,625                    98,021                  114,741
Secondary                  114,85                    16,160                   20,624
Technical La                  370                       870                    1 ,005
Teacher Training              269                       355                       410
University                    235 /b                    600                       750
Nonformal                     500 77                  3,000                    4,500
Total                 91,144                   119,006                  142,030
Expenditures
1972-1973 (Actual)      1979-1980 (Estimate)    1984-1985 (Estimate)
Type of          Expenditure  Percent    Expenditure  Percent    Expenditure  Percent
Institution        (Emalangeni) of Total   (&malangeni) of Total   (Emalangeni) of Total
Primary              1,475,200    37.38       2,857,312     31.56      4,847,807    31.89
Secondary           1,036,000    26.25        2,265,1147    25.02      4,189,766    27.56
Technical              226,100     5.73         826,169       9.13     1,383,151      9.10
Teacher Training       237,600     6.02         487,273      5.38        815,613      5.37
Ulniversity            740,400    18.77       1,888,083     20.85      2,650,292    17.43
Nonformal                2,700     0.06         284,100      3.14        597,135      3 .93
Administration         228,500     5.79         445,147       4.92       717,129      4.72
Total          3,946,500  lo0OO        9,053,231    100.00    15,200,893   100.00
Total Government
Recurrent
Expenditure        21,686,000                57,800,000               93,000,000
Ministry of
Education and
Department of
Labor as a %
of Total                18.20                    15.66                    16.35
/a Department of Labor.
S  Not including overseas students.
Ministry of Education programs only.
Sources: Ministry of Education and estimates by Bank Group staff.






H N F m , W , o S w F n F _ > l o 
D | ^ gs - &; n xe N7 t W > r 7 r ] v~~~~~~~~~
8 n               8Z>1                               
n  n     h         9  9                             t     >      X         H             r~~~~2
n  n   r          .  W                      -        I                                     -
H~~~~~~                                                                ~           ~~~ ~~ W88   8  8        
g   w  z  z z a ^= a z = w w 2 w l H w~~~8 
EH 4 ~ o s8.  88   8  8o                                      -
P~~~~~8                                                     8 '>WwW>;        
.  tr F , v 988  _  _  8  88   8 
|t  o ,  O  F  s  o  g  O   o   o  o  o  o   F      F  ~~~~~ o o
88 88    8,                     8    8 llbb 
I      8 o     8 11.                         1.              o  






ANNEX 9
S W A Z I L A N D
EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(us$ OOOs)
Accumulated          Undisbursed
Quarter'L             Disbursements          Disbursements           Balance
1                                                                  5,000
2                                                                  5,000
3                         -                      -                 5,000
4                         25                     25                4,975
5                         40                     65                4,935
6                         10                     75                4,925
7                         10                     85                4,915
8                         30                    115                4,885
9                         30                    145                4,855
10                         10                    155                4,845
11                        100                    255                4,745
12                         80                    335                4,665
13                        130                    465                4,535
14                        150                    615                4,385
15                        250                    865                4,135
16                        530                  1,395                3,605
17                        800                  2,195                2,805
18                        550                  2,745                2,255
19                        500                  3,245                1,755
20                        470                  3,715                1,285
21                        500                  4,215                  785
22                        350                  4,565                  435
23                        335                  4,900                  lO
24                        100                  5,000
L From credit effective date.
Source: World Bank Staff



ANNEX 1 0
Page 1 of 3
S Wr A Z I L A N D
EDUCATION PROJECT
Summary of Project Items
Project Item
No.                         Project Item
1           Swaziland Industrial Training Institute (SITI)
Technical Department
Buildings:  Ten classrooms, four drawing offices,
science lab, applied mechanics lab,
heat engines lab, mechanical workshop,
two telecommunications workshops, an
extension to welding & sheet metal
workshop, covered work area to building
workshop, lecture theatre
Commercial Department
One model office and AVA room. One
shorthand lab, two typing labs
Catering Department
Office, cold room, demo-kitchen,
main-kitchen, laundry & Linen, model
hotel room. model bar & reception area,
dining room
Communal Facilities
Administrative office building, central
storage, toilets, replacement central
primary school. Four dormitories x 70,
two matroiw flats, twelve 3-bedroom
staff htuses, four junior staff quarters
Estimated cost $        1,014,600
Furniture:                       Estimated cost $            98,550
Equipment:                       Estimated cost $           473,250



ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 3
Project Item
No.                         Project Item
2             .llliam Pitcher Teacher Training Institute
New Buildings:  Three principal subject rooms,
Science lab, art room, agricul-
tural workshed, student toilets,
storage, five 3-bedroom houses
Renovation:     Library extension, staff-room,
kitchen alterations
Eatimated cost $          205,500
Furniture:                       Estimated cost $           31,350
Equipment:                       Estimated cost $            38,250
3            Curriculum Center, Wlliam Pitcher Manzini
Buildings:      Administrative accommodation,
including materials production
facilities
Estimated cost $          125,25
Fmrniture:                       Estimated cost $            12,000
Equipment:                       Estimated cost $            25,500
4 to 6             Satellite Curriculum Centers
Buildings:      Two offices, classroom/workroom,
library, staff toilet
Estimated cost $            62,100
Furniture:                       Estimated cost $             5,850
Equipment:                       Estimated cost $           15,750
7            National Employment Service
Equipment:                       Estimated cost $            45,000



ANNEX 1 0
Page 3 of 3
Project Iten
No.                         Project Item
8, 9, 11, 12       Rural Education Centers:
& 13
Elulakeni, Big Bend, Ekuphakamene, Vuvulane,
Dokolowayo
Buildings: Five classrooms, general science,
woodwork, metalwork, needlework,
cookery, administration accommo-
dation, toilets, agricultural
store, cafeteria
Estimated cost $         1,130.250
Furniture:                       Estimated cost $           104,250
Equipment:                       Estimated cost $           288,ooo
10 &  14          Rural Education Centers:
Ngwane, Entfonjeni
Buildings: Two classrooms, woodwork, metalwork,
needlework, cookery, agricultural
store, toilets, office
Estimated cost $           348,000
Furniture:                       Estimated cost $            28,500
Equipment:                       Estimated cost $            97,500
Professional Fees
Architectural engineering services
Estimated cost $           307,500
Program Administration Expenses
Estimated cost $            160.000
Technical Assistance
Estimated cost -$           2I5.m00
Contingencies
Allowances for unforeseen events and price
increases cLuring the implementation period
Estimated cost $          2.275,785
TOTAL          $          7,137.73=



SWAZI LAND
EDUCATION PYRAMID
1972
As a % of    Education
age group    Level                                                                                                             Totals
IV                                                                                                      30
ill                                                                                                     29
Less than    University
1%        Years                                                                                                               48
92
v                                                                                                      707
IV                                                                                                     970
18%       ScnaVIll                                                                                                          2,025
Forms                       BOYS                                                        GIRLS
II                                  1 1      .          } |                                          2,970
3,990
7                                                                                                    6,900
6                                                                                                     7,750
5                                                                                                    9,400
PrimarV
67%       Grades      4                                                                                                    11,100
3                                                                                                    12,400
2                                                                                                    12,800
1                                                                                                    15,800
8,000    6,000       4,000      2,000         0         2,000      4,000      6,000      8,000
Enrollment in thousands
World Bank - 8770



SWAZI LAND
Structure of Education - 1973
Age    6        7       8        9      10       11      12         13      14       15         16      17          18      19          20          21
Grade  l        2        3       4       5       6        7          8       9       10          11      12         13       14         15          16
Nursing
4eacher             Traccn ai
Primary School                            Junior High School      Senior High School       University
Ph   g Ou - 194-6
Agriculture
*   Selection Point.
1/ Option for Public Health Nurse Training.
2/ Option for University Degree in Education.                                                    Vocational-Technical
3/  Option for Agriculture Diploma or Degree.                                         ;;                                      1 5
4/  Option for Technician Training. 1
El  Phasing Out -1974-76.                                                                          omr
World Bank-8771



SWAZI LAND
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINI STER
PERMANENT
SECRETARY
PROFESSIONAL                                                       ADMINISTRATIVE
UNDER SECRETARY
CHIEF EDUCATION                       PLANNER                    Management, Administration and
Staff Development
|VWILLIAM PITCHER
TEACH ER
TRAINING COLLEGE
SENIOR INSPECTOR                                            CHIEF INSPECTOR
IPR)MARY)                                                   (SECONDARY)
XI                                                  _ 
SENIOR                SENIOR               SENIOR              SENIOR                  SENIOR                SENIOR
INSPECTOR            INSPECTOR             INSTOR OR          INSPECTOR                INSPECTOR             INSPECTOR
ENGLISH              MATHS              *  SCIENCE         FHOME ECONOMICS              TECH.                SISWATI
DISTRICT                DISTRICT                 DISTRICT                 DISTRICT
EDUCATION               EDUCATION                EDUCATION                EDUCATION
OFFICER                 OFFICER                  OFFICER                  OFFICER       |                                Wodd Bank-8772(R)



S W A Z I L A N D
EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule I!
Year                              First                Second              Third                Fourth               Fifth                Sixth
Quarter                       1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3   4    1    2    3    4    1    2   3    4    1    2    3    4
Civil Works                                                                                : :
l. SITI                                     .... ...  .... ...  .... ... .... . ____ __TTTT ITT:                                        :::: ::::::: :::::: !IHIIII  
2.  WIPTTC and Curriculum...   ....   ....  ..TTrtT TT::                                       :::::   ::::  --  IH-
Development
3.  Secondary Schools:                                                                                                      .
Group  A...                               ....       ....         --TTTT   TT':J   . ::: ...         .. ...    ....
Group B                                           .... .... .... .... .. ..           TTTTTTTT TTT;.
Furniture                                                                                                                                                    I
0
l.  SITI                                                             00 |oooo|oooo|oooo|oooo o00 0TTTT xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
2. WPTTC and Curriculum                                              oooo 0000 0000  o ooo TTTT xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx                              -|
Development                                                                                                                                       0os
3.  Secondary Schools                                          l    l    |    |oooo oooo oooo0 TTTT xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx   XXXX |xxx          |    |
Equipment                                                                                                                                                a
1.  SITI                                                   oooo oooo oooo oooo oooo oooo TTTT TTTT xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
2.  WITTC and Curriculum                                                  oooo oooo oooo TTTT TTTT xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Development
3.  Secondary Schools                                                            oooooooooooo TTTT TTTT xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx xxxx
Program Unit
a.  Director-
b.  Procurement Specialist
c. Accountant                          _
Legend:  ....   Sketch plans and approval           ----   Working drawings                  TTTT   Tender and award
::::   Construction                       I+-HH   Guarantee                         oooo   Preparation and award
xxxx   Delivery                            ====   Implementation period
/I  From Credit Effective Date.



IBRD 11128
SWAZILAND                             -LES
Mid - IrLFIRST EDUCATION PROJECT 5________-_______
*mai roads - gravel                                          
- TECHNICAL/VOCATIONAL INSTITUTE
----Mirnor roads
- RailWys    -LH                                           .        TEHER TRAING iN INSTITUTE
*   Imrtant airfield                        / *                         CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT CETERS
-      Aerial ropeway                                  H               +  STUDENT PLACEMENT
Rivers                                                          A A  RURAL EDUCATION CENTERS
Irrigation schemes:                                                  See list of schools in report annexes.
[  PhIiRne and gum forests
RlEG ION$
Highve d- average height
above sect levet V00O mi. 
Middleveld-average heght                                                          -Lmhho TLiw~O
above seo level 600m  4.9                                                                                     qa
W Lowveld-average height                                                         n
oabove sea level ZOOm
Lubombo-otveroge height
above sea level 550w,                            
 National copital  
-International boundaries              HH0 I11
- -District bouindariets          FobRe
I    Mines                                                               13
11
t    RWUort'  '\'' 4'
JUNE 1974






SWAZILAND
EDUCATION PROJECT
KEY TO MAP
(Types of Institutions)
Symbol & No.                Project Item                      Location
A.  Technical/Vocational Education
1       Swasiland Industrial Training Institute       Mbabane
(SITI)
B. Teacher Training
2       William Pitcher Teacher Training              Manzini
College (WPTTC)
C. Curriculum Development
3       Curriculum Development Center                 Manzini
J  4    Siteki Regional Center                        Siteki
v       Piggs Peak Regional Center                    Pigge Peak
6       Hlatikulu Regional Center                    Hlatikulu
D. Student Placement
4                  7       National Employment Service                  ]Mbabane
E. Rural Education
8       Elulakeni Rural Education Center              Elulakeni
9       Big Bend Rural Education Center               Big Bend
10       Ngwane Rural Education Center                 Ngwane
11       Ekuphakameni Rural Education Center          Ekuphakameni
12       Vuvulane Rural Education Center               Vuvulane
13       Dokolwayo  Rural Education Center             Dokolowayo
14       Entfonjeni Rural Education Center            Entfonjeni



