CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 518 SW
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 9, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 518 SW
Development Credit
Agreement
(Education Project)
BETWEEN
KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 9, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 9, 1974, between KINGDOM OF
SWAZILAND (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "the Program   Unit" means the Program     Implementation   Unit
established pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement and
charged inter alia with supervising the implementation of the Project;
(b)   "the Evaluation Unit" means the Education Evaluation Unit, a
Committee of the Borrower's Ministry of Education charged inter alia with the
evaluation of new educational programs including those to be established under
the Project;
(c)   "WPTTC" means the William     Pitcher Teacher Training College at
Manzini; and
(d)   "SITI" means the Swaziland Industrial Training Institute at Mbabane.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 15
and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annUal installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing February 15, 1985, and ending August 15, 2024, each installment
to and including the installment payable on August 15, 1994 to be one-half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with the assistance
of the Program and Evaluation Units and other appropriate agencies and
instrumentalities of the Borrower with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical and educational
08


﻿5
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to carry out the Project, the Borrower shall
establish and maintain a program implementation unit in its Ministry of Education
with such responsibilities, powers and staff as are specified in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the Program Unit to employ an adequate
number of professional and administrative staff, including a program director, an
accountant and a procurement specialist all three of whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
The Borrower's Ministry of Works shall strengthen its School Facilities Unit, and
shall provide the Program Unit with the necessary professional assistance which
may be required to enable it to coordinate the work of the consultants referred
to in sub-section (c) of this Section and for the discharge of such other
responsibilities in respect of the Project as have been entrusted to said Unit.
(c)   In order to assist the Borrower in the design and supervision of
construction of the buildings included in Parts A to C of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ or cause to be employed architectural consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out the civil works included in Parts A to C of
the Project, the Borrower shall employ, or cause to be employed, contractors whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and


﻿6
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land or rights in respect of land as shall
be required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities included in the
Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land or rights in respect of land
are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree: (a) the
Borrower shall cause the Evaluation Unit to submit to the Association for its review
and comments within one year from the date of this Agreement, the evaluation
methodology to be followed by the said Unit in respect of the rural education
centers included in the Project and (b) the Borrower shall cause its Ministry of
Education to submit to the Association for its review and comments within two
years from the date of this Agreement, the practical study courses curricula
proposed for instruction in the said centers, and in the secondary schools included
in the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause the Evaluation Unit to maintain a
close and continuing monitoring of the progress and efficacy of the practical study
courses provided by the rural education centers and in the secondary schools
included in the Project.
Section 3.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall, by a date not later than two years from the date of this Agreement, commence
augmenting the teaching staff of the rural education centers included in the Project
with an adequate number of new instructors as may be required to carry out the
expanded role of the said centers under the Project, and shall, within the same
period, commence a training program acceptable to the Association for the training
of said new instructors.


﻿7
Section 3.10. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall augment its Ministry of Education staff, or make other
arrangements satisfactory to the Association to obtain specialist assistance, in the
fields of rural-adult and commercial education, all in accordance with a plan to
be prepared and submitted by the Borrower to the Association for its consideration
and comments by a date not later than six months from the date of this Agreement.
Section 3.1 1. The Borrower shall obtain such technical assistance as may
be necessary to assist its Curriculum Development and Education Materials Center
in promoting curriculum reform.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with -consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
*        out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall prepare a preliminary evaluation report assessing the results of the new
educational programs established under the Project for submission to the
Association for its consideration and comments within six months after the Closing
Date.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Program Unit shall have been established and a program director
acceptable to the Association shall have been employed pursuant to the provisions
of Section 3.02(b) of this Agreement; and
(b)   the consultants referred to in Section 3.02(c) of this Agreement shall
have been employed in accordance with the terms and conditions specified in said
Section.


﻿8
Section 5.02. The date February 28, 1975 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.08 and Article
IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 25 years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for Finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Finance
and Economic Planning
P.O. Box 443
Mbabane
Swaziland
Cable address:
MINFIN
Mbabane
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿9
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF SWAZILAND
By /s/ J.L.F. Simelane
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   /s / S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
0


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works                   1,930,000          67%
(2)   Furniture                      180,000
(a)   Imported                                    100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)   Locally                                     100% of local
manufactured                                expenditures
(ex-factory)
(3)   Equipment                      830,000            100% of foreign
expenditures
(4)   Professional                   210,000           67%
services (archi-
tectural and engi-
neering)
(5)  Program Administra-             110,000           67%
tion expenditures
for operation and
maintenance
(6)   Technical Assistance           150,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
(7)   Unallocated                   1,590,000
TOTAL        5,000,000


﻿11
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is
also that of another country from the territory of which goods or services are
supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed
to be "foreign expenditures"; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from, the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes inci.&ed in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of tle Credit, G. Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
@        4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories (4) and (5) on account
of expenditures incurred after September 1, 1974, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $52,000.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocatioi of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred


﻿12
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to promote the Borrower's educational objectives
by (i) expanding and improving technical, commercial and teacher training, (ii)
strengthening rural education for youths and adults and (iii) establishing a
curriculum development center and a student career guidance system. It consists
of the following Parts.
Part A:     Construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(i)         seven rural education centers, one each near the secondary
schools at Elulakeni, Big Bend, Ngwane, Ekuphakameni,
Vuvulane, Dokolwayo and Entfonjeni, to provide inter alia
pre-vocational, agricultural, handicrafts and domestic science
training; and
(ii)        the  Curriculum      Development    and  Education   Materials
Production Center on the WP TTC campus, including offices,
work-rooms, visual aids facilities, a radio recording studio, service
areas and vehicles, and the construction of three regional
curriculum centers.
Part B:     Construction, furnishing and equipping required to expand and improve
SITI to diversify its present training program by including inter alia
pre-technician training; craft courses in carpentry, construction,
electrical, plumbing and sheet-metal work and motor vehicle and
maintenance mechanics works; post-secondary technician courses in
civil, mechanical and electrical engineering; clerical, business and
administrative training; hotel and food handling training; training of
commercial and pre-vocational teachers for secondary schools;
management and supervisory courses; and upgrading training.
Part C:     Construction, furnishing and equipping required to expand WPTTC to
provide for the training of additional primary and lower secondary
schoolteachers, including the construction of staff housing and required
communal services.
Part D:     Purchase and utilization of equipment for the National Employment
Service to assist in career selection, employment counselling and
placement.


﻿14
Part E:     The provision of technical assistance to the Program Unit to assist
in implementation of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in paragraphs 2(iii) and 3 of this Part A, contracts shall
be let under procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    (i)         Bidders for the civil works included in Parts A to C of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in Part 2.2 of the Guidelines.
(ii)        Contracts for furniture and equipment shall be grouped to the
extent practicable so as to encourage international competition.
(iii)       Contracts for books shall be procured at the publisher's price
plus a suitable commission to be established by obtaining
quotations from suitable suppliers.
3.    Procurement of instructional equipment, books and furniture costing less than
$20,000 up to an aggregate total of $150,000 will be awarded on the basis of
the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures with invitations to bid being
advertised locally.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (point of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in the Kingdom of Swaziland may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish


﻿16
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the Kingdom of
Swaziland if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Barrower and the Association that the manufacturing cost
of such goods includes a value added in the Kingdom of
Swaziland equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in the
Kingdom of Swaziland.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences for Domestic
Contractors
1.   With respect to any contract for civil works included under Category (1)
of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Credit Agreement, the Borrower may


﻿17
grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided in Part A of
this Schedule and applicants for qualification applying also for such preference
shall be asked to provide, as part of the information for qualification, such
information, including details of ownership, as shall be required to determine
whether, according to the classification established by the Borrower and accepted
by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic
preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give
effect to such preference.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
D.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under Part C.1
above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for
its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association
shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works, equipment or furniture estimated
to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and


﻿18
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifi,ations in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the
bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement,
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 4
The Program Unit
1.    The Program Unit shall have such responsibilities and powers as shall be
necessary or incidental to the proper execution and supervision of the Project and,
in particular, the following responsibilities and powers:
(a)   the coordination of the Project with the Borrower's ministries,
departments and other agencies involved in the Project;
(b)   the  briefing, coordination  and  supervision  of the architectural
consultants referred to in Section 3.02(c) of this Agreement;
(c)   the  approval in    consultation  with  the Borrower's appropriate
authorities of the civil works designs of the educational institutions
included in Parts A to C of the Project;
(d)   the preparation of detailed lists of furniture and equipment required
for the Project and the preparation of bidding documents;
(e)   the procurement of construction works, materials and building
components, furniture and equipment, including the evaluation of bids
and recommendations of awards of contracts;
(f)   the maintenance of records, including records of the execution of the
Project, and the preparation of regular reports to the Association; and
(g)   the preparation of applications for withdrawals from     the Credit
Account.
2.    The Program Unit shall consist of the following staff appointed on a full-time
or other basis acceptable to the Association:
(a)   a program   director who shall have overall responsibility for the
direction and supervision of the Program Unit's work;
(b)   a procurement specialist;
(c)   an accountant; and


﻿20
(d)    such  technical, accounting, secretarial and other staff as may be
required for the efficient and proper discharge of the Program Unit's
responsibilities.


