Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLkL USE ONLY
Report No: 21855
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35110; SCL-3511A; SCPD-351 IS)
ON LOANS
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$285 MILLION IN TOTAL
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR AN EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
February 28, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 2000)
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira (TL)
TLI.00 million = US$ 1.45
US$ 1.00 = TL690,000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ECA         -      Europe and Central Asia
FY          -      Fiscal Year
GDP         -      Gross Domestic Product
GOT         -      Government of the Republic of Turkey
GPS         -      Geographic Positioning System
HDA         -      Housing Development Administration, the Prime Minister's Office
IRR         -      Internal Rate of Return
kms         -      Kilometers
m3          -      Cubic meters
m2          -      Square meters
m           -      Square meters
MIS         -      Management Information System
MOA                Ministry of Agriculture
MOP         -      Memorandum of the President
MPWS        -      Ministry of Public Works and Resettlement
PIU         -      Project Implementation Agency
POP         -      Population
QAE         -      Quality at Entry
QAG         -      Quality Assurance Group
RPA         -      Regional Procurement Adviser
SBD         -      Standard Bidding Document
TOR         -      Terms of Reference
UNDP        -      United Nations Development Program
Vice President:   Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:    Ajay Chhibber, ECCO6
Sector Manager/Director:    Ricardo Halperin, ECSIN
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Henry Boldrick, ECSIN



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  8
6. Sustainability                                                                     10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    14
9. Partner Comments                                                                   15
10. Additional Information                                                            15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P009099                                      Project Name: EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION
AND RECONSTRUCTION
Team Leader: Henry Boldrick                              TL Unit: ECSIN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: March 1, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION AND                 L/C/ITFNumber: CPL-35 110;
RECONSTRUCTION                                              SCL-3511A;
SCPD-351 1S
Country/Department: TURKEY                                              Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: UY - Other Urban Development
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/31/1992                              Effective: 09/18/1992        09/18/1992
Appraisal:  04/19/1992                               MTR:
Approval:  07/23/1992                             Closing: 06/30/1996          06/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVT. OF TURKEY/HOUSING DEVT. ADM.
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes Linn                             Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Ajay Chhibber                            Michael Wiehen
Sector Manager:      Margret Thalwitz                         Paula Donovan
Team Leader at ICR:   Henry Boldrick                          Mohsin Alikhan
ICR Primary Author:   Anders Zeijlon; Ibrahim Sirer
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactoiy, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
On March 13, 1992, at 7:42 p.m., the city of Erzincan (pop. 120,000) and its surroundings were
hit by an earthquake measuring 6.8 on the Richter Scale. The motion lasted 20 seconds, and the epicenter



was about 3 kms southeast of the city. Two days later, a 6.1 magnitude aftershock ruptured an 80 km
segment near the neighboring town of Pulumur. There were about 500 fatalities from collapsed buildings
and some 700 persons were seriously injured. The heaviest damage occurred in approximately 60
buildings of four or more stories that collapsed, mainly along the central avenue of Erzincan in an east-west
direction. Hotels, office buildings, hospitals, schools, municipal buildings and a vast number of apartment
buildings were affected. There was extensive damage in the surrounding rural areas as well.
Over the next few months, the Bank helped design a project to support the Government of Turkey's
(GOT) Rehabilitation and Reconstruction program for the area. According to the Loan Agreement, the
objective of the project was to assist the Government in carrying out its 1992-95 emergency reconstruction
program for the Erzincan region through (i) rehabilitation and reconstruction of the areas affected by the
earthquake, and (ii) development and implementation of seismic risk prevention and mitigation measures.
The Memorandum of the President (MOP) stated that the objective of the project is to reconstruct essential
housing, infrastructure and other facilities to promptly restore economic activity in the affected area, a
significantly more ambitious statement of the project's objective. In any case, the project was intended to
(i) reconstruct/rehabilitate essential housing, infrastructure and other facilities, and procure critically
needed equipment and comrnodities to help rebuild the local economy, and (ii) provide technical training
and a series of studies to reduce future earthquake vulnerability.
For obvious reasons, the project was not anticipated in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Turkey, which at the time had been shaped by a series of adjustment operations in the late 1 980s, both at
the macro level and in key sectors of the economy. It was envisaged that the adjustment dialogue would
continue with the overall aim to promote a more outward-looking development strategy, and with sector
and project lending focusing on poverty alleviation, social infrastructure and education/health. The selected
project objectives cannot be judged central to the country strategy, but rather formed an enclave in the
country program, justified by the need to assist Turkey to deal with the aftermath of the earthquake. The
project's regional development effort for the poor and remote Erzincan area did provide a link to the overall
strategy, but it was limited as the objectives were concerned with reconstruction only. There was no
attempt to address whatever regional development issues there had been before the earthquake, or to set
forward-looking priorities among the various sectors and development needs.
The project objectives were clear and realistic, responsive to the Borrower's efforts to deal with the
aftermath of a serious disaster, and clearly focused on the recovery needs for the region. Their broad scope
reflected the urgency felt at the time to support the rapid recovery of the local economy, and in particular
the speedy rebuilding of the physical infrastructure and provision of recovery-related inputs. They were
well coordinated with the Government's overall recovery strategy which included a three-phased program
with an initial Rescue and Relief phase, a Temporary Rehabilitation phase, and finally a Reconstruction
and Rehabilitation phase of which the project formed a part.
The project proved very demanding for the implementing agency, the Housing Development
Administration (HDA) was under the Prime Minister's office, located in Ankara. It had little experience of
this type of activity and of working with the Bank's procurement guidelines. After an initial period,
however, HDA had built up the relevant capacity and experience and became very capable of managing the
many contracts carried out under the project.
3.2 Revised Objective:
An expansion of the geographical scope of the project objectives was approved by the Board of
Executive Directors on two occasions. On December 19, 1995, the Loan Agreement was amended to
- 2 -



include reconstruction of municipal infrastructure and flood and erosion control measures in the city of
Senirkent following mud slides in the city, and the closing date was extended to December 31, 1999. On
July 28, 1997, a similar amendment was made to include the reconstruction of urban infrastructure and
flood control measures in the town of Sutculer following a flood in late 1995, as well as the design of
seismic strengthening measures for hospitals in Istanbul and Izmir. The geographically expanded project
objectives remained broadly consistent with the original objectives: disaster-related reconstruction and
institutional development measures to reduce the impact of any future disasters.
3.3 Original Components:
The original project components were well selected and designed to achieve the project objectives.
The June 1999 QAG Rapid Supervision Assessment also concluded that the project design was sound. An
initial damage assessment provided an inventory of all reconstruction needs and formed the core of the
GOT's overall reconstruction program estimated at US$650 million. Following agreements on who should
do what, the Bank-supported project components were designed to avoid duplication of efforts and to
complement the other reconstruction activities of the Government of Turkey, and amounted to US$285
million, or 44 percent of the total program, and the closing date was set at June 30, 1996. The project
components included: (a) a comprehensive urban reconstruction/rehabilitation program for cooperative and
government housing, hospitals, schools, public buildings, infrastructure, shops and businesses, building
demolition and debris removal, various lots of equipment, approximately 76 percent of total costs; (b) a
similar but smaller program for the affected rural areas including bams, irrigation/water supply and
animals/equipment, approximately 9 percent of total cost; (c) training and studies including a loss-reduction
study, training for the construction industry, a study developing an earthquake Insurance Industry, a study
on Urban Vulnerability, and a study on Emergency Preparedness, approximately 1 percent of total costs;
and (d) consultant services for design, supervision and project management, institutional strengthening of
the concerned agencies, and some supporting equipment, approximately 14 percent of total cost.
Although the project components were developed in coordination with the overall reconstruction
program, they came to include activities in many sectors. This made the project cumbersome to implement
and difficult to supervise, with a large number of sometimes very small contracts and relatively small
amounts of financing for many of the included components. The dominance of the construction activities,
at 85 percent of total cost, reflected the priorities at the time to quickly carry out physical reconstruction
works, but covered several sectors, involved many different Government agencies and demanded
substantial coordination and supervision efforts. The administrative capacity of the implementing agency
was initially not sufficient to handle the project work load, and substantial time and support was needed
before implementation took off.
3.4 Revised Components.
There were three significant revisions of the project components, two of which involved
amendments to the Loan Agreement and introduced new physical components, and one which revised the
institutional development component, i.e., the efforts to enhance Turkey's preparedness for future disasters.
(1) Following the first amendment in the Loan Agreement in late 1995 the closing date was extended to
December 31, 1999 and the US$20 million Senirkent Rehabilitation program was included in the
project. It was designed to support recovery efforts after mud slides in the city. It was, although
much smaller than the Erzincan program, modeled after the original project concept and included
reconstruction of essential infrastructure, measures for flood and erosion control, disaster
mitigation, and supporting equipment.
-3 -



(2) After the second amendment in 1997, the closing date was further extended to June 30, 2000,
US$42 million of unused funds were canceled, and a similar US$7 million program for the town of
Sutculer was included following floods in the area in 1995. This also included a US3.5 million
provision for the Design of Seismic Retrofitting of 26 hospitals in Istanbul and 31 in Izmir. In
addition to these expansions, one sub-component originally in the project, the rehabilitation of the
60 km Refahiye-Erzincan-Tercan Road, was later dropped. The decision to drop this component
followed disagreements between the Bank and the Highways Directorate on the need to complete
detailed design before bidding the civil works contract, and on whether an earlier list of bidders
from another project could be used as short list.
(3) Originally, the following components were included in the institutional development component: (a)
a Loss reduction study including: (i) revisions of the Disaster Law; (ii) revisions of the
Reconstruction Law, Building Code and other laws related to construction; (iii) microzoning plan
for Erzincan, and (iv) a program of assessing and improving public buildings in Turkey; (b)
training of construction industry; (c) an earthquake insurance industry study; (d) an urban
vulnerability study, and (e) an emergency preparedness study. None of these activities had started
by 1995, and a revised component was developed and agreed on, including: (i) a study to revise the
Reconstruction Law and include aspects on disasters and (ii) preparation of a public infonnation
campaign and development of training materials for the construction industry. The originally
included MIS system for Ministry of Public Works and Resettlement (MPWS) was also included
in the revised component. During discussions of the second amendment, installation of a
Geographic Positioning System (GPS) system in the Marmara Region to identify the areas of the
highest seismic risk was added to the institutional development component.
The agreement to expand the project to include the Senirkent program came after the original
reconstruction components were almost complete. About US$170 million of the loan funds had been used
up by end 1995 and it was obvious that there would be significant unused funds. The Bank had made
several inquiries to the Government about canceling the remaining funds. GOT was reluctant to cancel any
loan funds and proposed other uses for the funds. The Bank replied that it would be more appropriate to
consider a new project on its own merits rather than add new activities to make use of the surplus funds.
GOT's unwillingness to cancel the remaining funds was the dominant factor behind the request for
amendment and extension, and the Bank finally agreed since the proposed activities in Senirkent (and later
in Sutculer) were similar in nature to the original project activities.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was very quickly prepared in response to the Borrower's call for quick action to
respond to the disaster. A mission to prepare the operation was sent to Turkey from April 9-24, 1992 (this
mission was later upgraded to appraisal) and produced a damage assessment, a list of reconstruction needs,
a proposed division of responsibility for the reconstruction activities, and proposed implementation
arrangements. The Board of Executive Directors approved the operation on June 23, the loan agreement
was signed on July 27, and declared effective on September 18, 1992. As a result of the rapid appraisal
and approval of the project, preparation work was not as rigorous as in more typical Bank supported
projects. By Board approval, there were no designs or draft tender documents prepared for the civil works,
no agreed TORs for the studies and training activities, and no capacity in the implementing agency for
managing the preparation of the tender documents and subsequent contracts. Nevertheless, the QAE is
rated S given the unique circumstances for the project start. The QAG Rapid Supervision Assessment
(July 1999) similarly concluded that the project was ready for implementation at approval as the project
was a disaster relief operation.
-4 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement ofobjective:
The outcome/achievement of project objectives is rated satisfactory. Taking as a project objective
the MOP's more expansive goal of rebuilding the Erzincan local economy, analysis of available regional
GDP data for Erzincan suggest that the Erzincan economy was rebuilt in the 3-4 years following the
disaster. The earthquake caused a 10-14 percent reduction in economic activity in 1992 and 1993. This
was followed by a local "boom" in 1994, probably fueled by the reconstruction activities. Then came a
period of higher-than-1991 GDP levels from 1995 onwards with continued growth in 1996 and 1997. The
"economic loss" suffered can be illustrated by the fact that the econornic growth in Erzincan was limited to
9.4 percent between 1991 and 1997, while the corresponding figure was 14.4 percent for eastern Turkey,
and 33.5 percent for Turkey as a whole.
It is difficult to say how much of the recovery was due to the reconstruction program. The
Erzincan region's GDP was about US$260 million in 1992. There is therefore little doubt that the Bank's
funding of $180 million for the region, as well as the originally planned overall US$650 million
reconstruction package, spent over 3-4 years were very large interventions. It would appear safe to
conclude that the Bank-funded construction activities contributed to rebuilding the local economy. In
addition to the direct economic benefits, the construction activities are likely to have triggered and
accelerated the private sector-driven recovery and expansion of the local economy in the area. There is no
data available describing this process, but there is anecdotal evidence that many of the entrepreneurs and
richer parts of the population left Erzincan after the earthquake. Many of those who could leave did so,
and settled in other parts of Turkey, mainly in the economically more active western parts. Those who left
were in many cases owners and operators of factories and businesses. They often appointed caretakers or
managers to look after the businesses. Demographically, therefore, the earthquake caused out-migration of
the richer and most enterprising people which in turn was matched by some in-migration from the
surrounding areas.
The forward-looking institutional objectives seeking to reduce Turkey's vulnerability to future
earthquakes were only partly achieved. Some of the activities were completed, others were partly
completed and will be completed on their own or as part of other Bank-supported projects, and some were
not undertaken. Please see 4.2 (ii) below for details.
The objectives for the smaller parts of the project that were added in 1995 and 1997 were
substantially met. The rehabilitation programs for both Senirrkent and Sutculer have been completed and
both their municipal infrastructure and actions to reduce risk for and vulnerability to future floods and mud
slides have been completed. Similarly the smaller added components of retrofitting hospitals in Izmir and
Istanbul, and the establishment of a GPS system in the Marmara area were completed.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The components (original and later added) designed to meet the physical objectives were generally
successfully implemented while performance of the components supporting institutional strengthening was
mixed. The summary provided here is illustrated in more detail in Annex 1.
(i) Physical objectives under the Erzincan program: this component is rated Satisfactory as almost all
components were implemented as planned. It would have earned a Highly Satisfactory rating had
it not suffered from initial delays.  Most of the construction activities did not start until
- 5 -



Spring/Summer 1994, i.e. two years after the earthquake occurred, and most were completed
during late 1995, almost 4 years after the earthquake. This delay did not stop the project from
reaching its objectives, but it certainly delayed it.
Under the housing component, 252 Government apartments were reconstructed compared to the
250 originally planned. However, the 1,131 units of cooperative housing actually repaired or
reconstructed fell short of the 3,640 units planned. This was due to inaccuracies in the original
damage assessment which formed the basis for the Bank's appraisal. The actual number of
eligible damaged units turned out to be a much smaller number. Under the community facilities
component, three hospitals were reconstructed with 475 beds planned as compared to the 350
beds for patients and 150 units of nurses' lodgings that were actually built. The hospitals are fully
operational and well maintained, although there is a shortage of specialized doctors (as is the case
in all of Eastern Turkey). Another 500 units of housing for medical staff were completed as
planned, as was the delivery of equipment to the hospitals. The planned rehabilitation of a health
post was dropped. Equipment for the area schools were delivered as planned, as was the
reconstruction of 300 units of teachers' housing. Under the shops and business component, 387
shops and 275 offices were reconstructed in six shopping centers, another 512 shops and 143
apartments were repaired in 39 structurally rehabilitated buildings. About 95 percent of the units
are used, and most of them are rented out by the original beneficiaries.
Under the public buildings component, municipal offices, the Adult Education Center, the
Horticulture Research Center, the National Education Center, four municipal workshops, the
Rural Affairs Building and a bus terminal were reconstructed, mainly as planned although the
rebuilding of a sports stadium wall was dropped. Civil works and equipment under the
infrastructure components were carried out and delivered much as planned and included inputs
and investments for many sectors of the municipal economy. The main difference from the
original plans was that the approximately 100 kms. of road repairs originally planned never took
place. The building removal and debris component took place as planned. The rural component
was implemented very quickly even if the originally planned number of barns to be constructed
(4,100) was larger than what was achieved (2,885). Again, this was due to inaccuracies in the
original damage assessment used for appraisal. The barns were built very quickly after loan
effectiveness, by the beneficiaries themselves with lump sum payments made for construction
materials. The repair of the sugar factory chimney and the delivery of equipment to the Civil
Defense Directorate took place as planned.
(ii) Institutional development component.  As mentioned in 3.4 above, this component was
scaled-back and revised in 1996. It is rated Unsatisfactory since many of the originally intended
activities never took place, and as only part of the work actually done has led to the intended
actions or follow-up. The study to revise the Reconstruction Law and include aspects on disasters
in it was initiated in October 1997, and completed in draft in September 1999. There have been
some modifications in the MWPS bylaws governing construction but no legal changes have been
presented to parliament. The preparation of the public information campaign and development of
training materials for the construction industry started in June 1998 and were completed in June
2000, but the campaign and training activities could not be initiated in time to take advantage of
Bank agreement to fund them under the Erzincan loan and it was decided to fold it into similar
activities under another Bank-financed project. The Installation of the GPS system in the
Marmara Region was completed by November 1999 (most parts of the system were in place when
the August 1999 earthquake hit the region, and provided valuable inputs to assess the situation).
In addition, a component to automate and replace the MWPS management information system
-6-



was included in the original project and was largely implemented as planned. Some of the
specially designed software was rejected by MWPS, but off-the-shelf software was procured and
is working well with the installed hardware.
(iii) Components in the first amendment of the Loan Agreement, January 1996 - Senirkent
Reconstruction Program. This project component is rated Highly Satisfactory as all parts of it
were implemented on a timely basis and according to plans. The infrastructure works and
equipment were completed as planned in October 1999, and the preventive flood and erosion
control components were completed as planned in June 1999 and included 3.7 million trees
planted, 24 thousand meters of fencing, and 2,603 hectares planted.
(iv) Components in the second amendment of the Loan Agreement, August, 1997 - Sutculer
Reconstruction Program and the Assessment and Design of Hospitals in Istanbul and Izmir.
These components are rated Highly Satisfactory. All parts of the reconstruction program were
completed by June 2000 (except for the water treatment plant component which was dropped
because it could not be technically justified), including the preventive flood & erosion control
activities to protect a 860-hectare erosion control zone. The design work for the Istanbul and
Izmir hospitals was completed by September 2000.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
There was no NPV or IRR calculated for the project during preparation/appraisal. During the ICR
preparation, a limited ex-post cost-benefit analysis was carried out for the housing and shops/business
components, and the per-unit costs for the hospitals component were assessed. Contracts and other
materials available for the other components were analyzed to see if least-cost solutions were sought.
Details of the calculations are found in Annex 3.
A: The project's housing component amounted to US$44.2 million or 22 percent of total project
cost. For these funds, a total of 2,183 apartments of on average 90m were reconstructed or repaired at a
cost of $20,200 each. The market value of each apartment is assessed at $200 per month. Comparing the
assessed market rental value with the costs for the three reconstruction/repair contracts yields a rate of
return of 11 percent.
B: The project's shops and businesses component amounted to US$22.5 million or 11 percent of
total project cost. A total of 387 shops were reconstructed in six shopping centers, 512 shops rehabilitated
in 39 different buildings, 275 offices reconstructed in six shopping centers, and 143 apartments
reconstructed in 39 different buildings, implying a renovation cost of US$16,500 for each unit. The rental
market value is assessed at $130 per month for each shop, $50 per month for each office, and $200 per
month for each apartment. Average rental value for each unit in this component is $155 per month.
Comparing the assessed market rental value with the costs for the three reconstruction/repair contracts
yields a rate of return of 7 percent.
C: The project's hospitals component amounted to a total cost of US$35 million or 17 percent of
total project cost. Three hospitals with a total of 350 beds were reconstructed, furnished and equipped.
This included 150 associated nurses lodgings. This corresponds to 85m' per bed, $59,000 per bed in
rehabilitation/reconstruction costs, $41,000 in cost per bed for fumiture and equipment, or a total cost per
bed of $100,000. Per square meter, the costs are $683 for the reconstruction, and $476 for furniture and
equipment, in total $1,059 per square meter. The costs for this component are very low and the standards
- 7 -



appropriate. The 85m2 per bed compares to a norm of lOOm' in many industrialized countries. The $1,059
total cost per square meter compares to a figure of $1,700 for a recently completed Bank-supported
medical facility in Estonia (excluding beds). The total cost per bed, at $100,000, compares to an industry
average of $250,000-350,000 for first rate hospitals in many industrialized countries, with $120,000 being
the benchmark for less modem facilities in poorer countries.
A review of available data for components D, E, and F suggest that the activities pursued by the
project represented the least cost solutions for the outputs and associated benefits:
D: Equipment, total cost US$22 million = 11 percent of total project cost
E: Other civil works, infrastructure, total cost US$65 million = 33 percent of total cost
F: Consultants services, total cost US$12 million = 6 percent of total project cost
4.4 Financial rate of return:
There was no financial rate of return estimated for the project.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, the project did not make significant contributions to the ultimate institutional development
objective: to improve Turkey's preparedness for future natural disasters. A more thorough implementation
of the activities designed to limit the damage of future earthquakes would have been desirable. The smaller
preventive components for the Senirkent and Sutculer programs, the Marmara GPS system, and the
planned retrofitting of the hospitals in Istanbul and Izmnir do compensate for some of the earlier neglect in
the project. In summary, the institutional development aspects were neglected as the original construction
activities were carried out, but pursued through a scaled-down program later, and through the amendments
of the project.
HDA/PIU grew into a skilled organization and became a good training ground for project
management including procurement and contract management.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were several problems during the first three years of the project with the selection and work
of the consultants who assisted HDA with design and construction supervision for the four main
construction components. These difficulties significantly contributed to the initial implementation delays.
By mid 1993 all four consultants were contractually late in the preparation of bidding documents, and
frequently submitted the wrong or incomplete versions of the documents to HDA. Most of these problems
were eventually solved, but HDA in 1996 terminated the contract for one of the consultants and converted
the security bond (bank letter of guarantee) to cash. This led to a lawsuit against HDA which is still
underway and to which HDA has issued a counter claim.
In addition, three construction companies have brought forward six other lawsuits against HDA,
mainly related to the applicability of the correct price index in payment certificates and the claims for time
extensions. HDA has won four of the six cases, lost and appealed one, and is awaiting the outcome of one.
It is not expected that the lawsuits will have any impact on the project outcome.
- 8 -



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There was poor Govermment commitment to the institutional components attempting to strengthen
Turkey's preparedness for future earthquakes. The project was clearly viewed as a reconstruction program,
and there was little interest in the broad studies and training program included in the original project design.
None of the planned activities had started by the end of 1995. The modified program agreed on in 1996 has
been implemented, but interest in the findings of the studies and in the information campaign and training
materials prepared has been limited. However, GOT interest in the Marmara GPS system and in the
envisaged renovation of hospitals in Istanbul and Izmir has been more positive.
The selection of HDA as implementing agency was a compromise after the first proposals to use
MPWS failed. The Bank's identification mission in April 1992 recommended that the directorate in MPWS
responsible for disaster management be made the implementing agency, as this directorate was to play a
central role in the overall reconstruction program. Within weeks, however, it became clear that MWPS did
not agree to the envisaged modalities of the Bank supported activities (see section 7.4 below) and as a
result the government suggested that the Bank supported part of the reconstruction program be
implemented by the smaller and more flexible HDA. Although HDA became a very competent
implementing agency, it is still regrettable that the Bank and MWPS did not manage to establish a better
basis for cooperation. The ministry is the key agency dealing with many aspects of disaster management
(including construction standards), and the project components dealing with Turkey's preparedness for
future earthquakes would have had a greater chance of success had they been part of the ministry's own
work.
The project came to cover many sectors of the region's economy, and many government agencies
had to be involved in the work. This meant that HDA initially had to spend significant time and effort to
establish a series. of protocols with the agencies it had to work with. In the end, the Government's
intra-agency collaboration worked quite well as far as the construction activities and procurement of goods
were concerned. The Ministry of Agriculture quickly administered the construction of barns and
procurement of animals, the Ministry of Education procured and distributed the school materials, etc. But it
also meant that HDA became overloaded with a lot of detailed questions about Bank procurement and
procedures from a vast number of agencies each struggling to implement their part of the project. One Bank
report in 1994 noted that HDA was swamped with these kind of questions and that all resources went into
the day-to-day handling of them. The staff had little time or energy to focus on the overall implementation
of the project, and this is possibly yet another explanation to why the institutional strengthening
components were neglected for so long.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
HDA became a very efficient implementing agency. The successful completion of the
reconstruction efforts in Erzincan, and later in Senirkent and Sutculer, is a result of HDA's competent
project management and handling of contracts and procurement. This is particularly true for the time from
1995 onwards.
The early years of project implementation were difficult for HDA. Without the necessary staff, it
attempted to get a large number of complex construction and infrastructure operations in motion,
employing Bank rules and procurement guidelines, while also negotiating protocols with the larger
ministries dealing with specific components of the operation. It took a long time for HDA to get the right
key staff, i.e. with knowledge of procurement and contract management, and also to secure the services of
-9-



consultants to help as needed with the preparation of bidding documents and supervision of the construction
activities.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Both the funding needed to complete the original project components and the speed by which
disbursements would take place were overestimated during project preparation. By 1996, the original
physical components of the project had been completed at a cost of about US$180 million, compared to a
loan amount of US$285 million, implying that the original costs were overestimated by about 58 percent.
Most of the over budgeting (about 80 percent of the US$105 million of excess funds) originated from four
subcomponents; (i) Infrastructure - US$26 million of the US$55 million budgeted was spent, (ii) Housing -
US$47 million of US$69 million was spent, (iii) Rural reconstruction - only US$7 million out of US$25
million was spent, and (iv) PMU/project design and supervision - US$20 million out of US$38 million was
used. The speed with which the funds would be disbursed was also overestimated. For the $285 million
made available, the MPWS envisaged that 49 percent of the funds would be spent during FY93, with the
remainder at a declining rate during the next three FYs at 33 percent, 10 percent and 7 percent respectively.
In fact, the disbursement-profile of the spending of the $180 million actually spent before the project
restructuring was much more back-loaded, with only 9 percent and 7 percent spent in 1992 and 1993,
respectively, and 49 percent, 30 percent and 5 percent during the following three years.
There are several reasons why the funding needs and speed of their use were overestimated. First,
the rapid preparation did not allow for realistic plans and cost estimates. Second, the pressure to get the
recovery program started fast led to a situation where generous amounts of funding were made available to
make sure that shortage of funds would not hamper the recovery efforts. Third, the enthusiasm and
urgency to implement the recovery efforts were mistaken for actual implementation and absorption
capacity. While such situations should be avoided in the future, the need to respond to urgent requests after
natural disasters makes it difficult to get cost estimates as accurate as are available in the normal Bank
investment operation.
The most obvious implication of the over-budgeting was that a large amount of funds was
underutilized. This became clear in 1995 whereupon the Bank advised GOT to cancel the extra funds.
However, GOT did not agree to this, and instead raised various ideas about how the funds could be used.
A situation emerged where the idle funds were seen as available credit to be drawn on for any disaster
related activities. This resulted in the two amendments: to add the Senirkent, Sutculer and Hospital
Retrofitting components. The costs for the added components (and the revised institution strengthening)
were more realistically assessed, and parts of the loan were eventually canceled on three occasions. The
first cancellation amounted to US$42 million and was dated May 7, 1997, the second of US$19.5 million
took place on August 9, 1998, and the final one of US$17 on April 5 1999, in all bringing the total amount
of the loan down from US$285 to $206.5 million.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
The sustainability for the project as a whole is rated Likely, and includes three parts; (i) the
project's physical components rated highly likely, (ii) the reduced institutional component rated likely, and
(iii) the abandoned parts of the institutional component that were never carried out. The physical
components (construction/rehabilitation of buildings and infrastructure, equipment) sustainability is highly
likely. The infrastructure/investments provided to the three municipalities are integral parts of the cities'
- 1 0 -



provision of services to its inhabitants, and are being used and maintained.   Virtually all
housing/apartments supported by the project are lived in with market-based rents used for the cooperative
houses and subsidized rents for the Government owned buildings where the civil servants are typically
charged US$75 per month (as compared to a market rent of US$200 per month). About 95 percent of the
shops and offices provided are used, with the majority being rented out by the original beneficiaries. The
three hospitals in Erzincan are fully functional and well maintained, the main problem being to attract
suitable medical specialists (an issue common to all of Eastern Turkey). The seismic-resistant design
developed for hospitals in Istanbul and Izmir is likely to be used in the future. The sustainablity of the
project's reduced institutional parts is rated likely since the GPS system for the Marmara region as well as
the management information system for MPWS are operational. Similarly, the training and information
materials developed for the public and the construction industry are likely to be used, and the proposed
revisions of the reconstruction law are likely to be considered. Some of the abandoned parts of the
institutional component are being continued under the MEER project, i.e. revision of key legislation and the
development of a disaster insurance industry.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The transition for the physical parts of the project is complete. The respective agencies and
municipalities manage, operate and maintain the equipment, buildings and investments made. Similarly, the
Marmara GPS system is handled by TUBITAK, a scientific and technical research council, and the
MPWS' MIS system is fully handled by the ministry. The training and information campaign materials
have been handed over to MPWS, as has the report listing desireable revision to the Construction law. It is
recommended that the Bank, possibly as part of the MEER project, support the future use of these
materials and recommendations for law amendments. Similarly, the Bank should support the continued
revision of laws and regulations, relevant studies and the development of an insurance industry for
disasters. Finally, discussions are underway with the Government about support for reducing seismic risk
in Istanbul, an effort which could include retrofitting of some hospitals in Istanbul and Izmir.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank quickly responded to the disaster. The earthquake took place on March 13. On March
15, a meeting was held which concluded that the Bank should offer assistance to prepare an operation with
limited objectives and with a realistic time schedule to (i) do a comprehensive damage assessment, (ii) help
fill the financial and technical requirements to restore the productivity of the area, and (iii) take actions to
mitigate against damage in case of any future earthquakes. Letters outlining the Bank's possible support
were sent to the President and the Prime Minister on March 16. The offer was gratefully accepted, and the
Bank launched an identification/pre-appraisal mission in April (9 - 24) which was later upgraded to
appraisal. This seven-person mission produced a comprehensive assessment of the damage, and identified
the scope and content of the project. Disagreements about the implementation arrangements, however,
made it necessary to launch a post-appraisal mission (May 31 - June 9). During this mission it was agreed
that the Bank-supported activities would be implemented by the HDA, while MWPS would be in charge of
the part supported by an ECU150 million credit from the Council of Europe. After Board approval, the
Bank sent a third mission which worked with HDA to strengthen its implementation capacity, comprising
one HQ staff and one Procurement Expert from the Bank's Ankara Office.
The project was for obvious reasons not envisaged in the Bank's Country Strategy for Turkey, but
supported the Government's reconstruction efforts and was well coordinated with GOT's overall
-11 -



post-earthquake reconstruction program. The work carried out by the Bank staff was of high quality and
provided a comprehensive assessment of the reconstruction needs. Appraisal of the Government's
commitment was correct for the reconstruction activities, but not realistic for the institutional components
for which the commitment was overestimated. The assessment of HDA's ability to implement the project
underestimated the problems this agency came to face in implementing a complex project in a remote part
of Turkey. Similarly, the plans for establishing a local PIU in Erzincan proved very hard to carry out. The
project design was straightforward and appropriate even if it spanned several sectors of the local economy
and came to involve many agencies. The funding amount provided proved overly generous and the
disbursement profile too optimistic.
7.2 Supervision:
Overall, the Bank's supervision efforts were satisfactory, and can be divided into three phases.
During the initial two years of the project, the Bank's supervision efforts focused on assisting HDA with
the hiring of consultants for the design and supervision of reconstruction work and for the preparation of
bidding documents. The Bank also put significant efforts into familiarizing HDA staff with Bank
procurement and disbursement procedures. During this phase, the emphasis was on dealing with the
delayed construction efforts while the institutional objective of the project was largely neglected. In the
project's second phase, 1995-96, the originally planned reconstruction components were largely completed,
and attention was again turned towards the second project objective, and towards reallocating the un-used
part of the loan proceeds. Finally, during the third phase in 1997 and 1998, the scaled down institutional
component and the Senirkent and Sutculer reconstruction programs were implemented, and the Bank's
supervision focused on these activities.
Throughout implementation, a large part of the supervision and day-to-day task management were
carried out by Ankara office staff, supported by periodic missions from HQ. This arrangement proved very
helpful to address issues related to procurement and contract management, and was much appreciated by
the borrower. One shortcoming in the supervision (as noted in QAG's RSA report) was that reporting
focused on the output level rather than on outcomes, i.e. on the construction activities rather than on the
re-established economic activity in the affected areas. Implementation progress was adequately reported
and implementation problems identified and addressed. The performance ratings given during supervision
(S throughout) were realistic. More attention should have been paid to the lagging behind of the project's
institutional strengthening components during 1993-1995. The advice given to the implementing agency
was of high quality and appreciated. All loan covenants were enforced and complied with. The skills mix
and continuity of Bank staff during supervision was good.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory. During preparation the Bank acted quickly, but also
underestimated the problems with having an implementing agency not used to Bank projects dealing with a
project covering many sectors and many government agencies. During supervision, the Bank provided good
support to the reconstruction efforts but initially neglected the institutional development objective
(preparedness for future earthquakes). Once the institutional component started, supervision of it was very
good as was the supervision of the other added project components.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory. The government provided
- 12-



adequate inputs for the preparatory work, and the Bank supported activities were shaped into a consistent
part of the overall reconstruction efforts. The only complication concerned the selection of the
implementing agency. It was initially assumed that MPWS would be implementing the project as its
directorate for disaster management played a key role in handling the overall reconstruction program.
However, disagreements between the ministry's practices and the Bank's guidelines proved hard to
overcome. The ministry wished to use its own procedures for the design work (to be done by the ministry)
and construction (using MPWS procurement rules), which the Bank did not judge satisfactory. The Bank
further argued that MPWS's organizational structure did not permit accountability and responsibility to be
clearly assigned. Some modifications in MPWS' procedures were agreed on, but it was judged to be in the
best interest of implementation if the Bank supported part of the reconstruction program was implemented
by HDA rather than MPWS.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance during implementation is rated satisfactory. The construction and
infrastructure components were implemented with full Government support. The cross-sectoral and
comprehensive nature of the project made it difficult at times to achieve focused Government
implementation. Each respective agency was supposed to carry out the implementation and procurement of
its own component (school materials by Ministry of Education, etc.) with HDA providing overall guidance
as needed. In fact, HDA ended up handling most of the detailed implementation.
There was little Government interest in the project components aiming to strengthen Turkey's
preparedness for future earthquakes. The broad and ambitious program designed for the original project
was not pursued during the first three years of the project. Implementation only started after the program
had been severely scaled back and after Bank staff invested large amounts of time in developing TORs and
advancing the program.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
HDA's performance is rated satisfactory. This assessment is based on (i) consistently highly
satisfactory performance since 1995-96, (ii) initial delays in project implementation as well as in solving
staffing issues during 1992-1994, (iii) disregard for the project's institutional strengthening components
until their restructuring in 1996.
HDA grew into a very effective implementing agency after the first few years of work. The
management of HDA was generally efficient, including the financial management. Following a period of
inadequate staffing during the first years of implementation, the agency developed the right staffing and
skills mix. There were no remarks related to the execution of a US$60,000 Trust Fund from UNDP. The
restructuring of the project to include Senirkent, Sutculer and the design for renovation of hospitals in Izmir
and Istanbul, and the implementation of these new activities was handled very well.
During the first few years of implementation (1992-94) HDA found it hard to carry out the
assigned tasks. One year after effectiveness, the Bank advised the PIU to do the following urgently: (i)
complete the staffing of the PIU, and strengthen the procurement function of the PIU with a TA contract,
(ii) complete the staffing of the Erzincan PIU, (iii) push the consultants to get the bidding documents ready
for the four major construction components, (iv) to finalize the Turkish translation of the SBDs, and (iv)
complete the audit of the 1992 accounts which was overdue. The absence of experienced staff in the areas
of procurement and contract management proved particularly harmful. At this time a lot of effort went into
establishing the official protocols governing the PIU's relations with the other parts of the Government
- 13 -



responsible for their respective parts of the project. As the volume of activities increased, the PIU found
itself flooded with many smaller questions and issues, often of a very technical nature, from other agencies,
contractors, consultants, etc. It was also difficult for a long time to get staff for the PIU in Erzincan due to
unrest in the area.
HDA showed little interest in the implementation of the studies and training components to enhance
Turkey's preparedness for future earthquakes. Once these components were restructured, HDA effectively
implemented the studies agreed upon.
A review of the project's procurement by the ECA RPA's office in mid-2000 did not reveal any
major issues but stated the following: (i) Legal proceedings are under way with 4-5 contractors on price
adjustment; arbitration process as per contract was not followed; (ii) Bank agreed to restricted
advertisement (not through Development Business) but information was forwarded to Embassies only; (iii)
Construction of barns was implemented under the project, but was not provided for in the procurement
schedule of Loan Agreement, (iv) no information on aggregate value for different method to establish
compliance with legal agreement, (v) consultant selection for Project Management Automation
(value>$200,000) included only four local institutions, (vi) procurement of stabilization equipment was
not clear; repeated sole sourcing was awarded, (vii) role of TUBITAK, a research institute, as beneficiary
and provider of services for the Marrnara GPS system was not clear, (viii) extension of contract with one
company was approved without clearance of the RPA, (ix) no post reviews conducted.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformiance:
The Borrower's overall performance is rated satisfactory based on the assessments above.
8. Lessons Learned
*   Give preventive and institutional development measures a more prominent role: The project's
objective to strengthen Turkey's preparedness for future earthquakes was not fulfilled as almost all
attention in the Erzincan project was focused on the reconstruction efforts to repair damage done.
In August 1999, seven years after the Erzincan earthquake, the Marmara Region was struck by a
serious earthquake with extensive damage and many casualties. Obviously, forceful
implementation of the project's comprehensive training and studies program that was designed to
mitigate against damage in case of future earthquakes would have served Turkey well, and a
vigorously pursued loss-minimizing program during the 1990s would have yielded substantial
benefits. In the case of any future operations seeking to meet institutional or preparedness
objectives, the following measures could be considered: (1) Make sure that the preventive/forward
looking project components have their own implementing agencies and interested audiences, i.e.,
avoid putting these components as add-on's to a larger and implementation intensive reconstruction
program. (2) Consider putting progress on the preventive/forward looking activities as conditions
for disbursement on the reconstruction components. (3) Develop self-standing operations with
preventive/forward looking objectives, i.e., not linked to any reconstruction activities. (4) Prepare
the preventive/forward looking components in more detail (at least agreed-on TORs) before Board
approval.
*   Maintain reasonable Quality at Entry even for urgent projects: The Bank made a significant
amount of funding available within six months after the earthquake. However, funding in place
proved not to be the key constraint. Instead, poor implementation capacity as well as limited
absorptive capacity locally meant that it took two years for the reconstruction activities to start,
- 14 -



and three years to finish. More attention to preparation, development of bidding documents and the
creation of a better equipped PIU would have contributed to speedier implementation. The urgency
and pressure to move fast after disaster strikes make it tempting to focus on making money
available fast, and to push the more difficult problems aside. Would an extra six months of
preparation of the original project have led to the completion of reconstruction after two years
instead of three?
* Local involvement is key to success. The rural component rebuilding barns was a big success and
quickly implemented as it closely involved the beneficiaries. It would have been interesting to know
if closer community involvement in the identification and construction activities would have
resulted in speedier implementation of other activities.
*   Seek to limit the number of sectors included: The reconstruction activities covered almost every
sector of the local economy, leading to a large number of contracts worth often small amounts of
funding available for each activity. It would have been beneficial if the division of responsibilities
between the Bank and other actors had left the project with 2-3 sectors to focus on. The initial
delays could have been reduced if focus had been on, say, housing and hospitals only.
*   Avoid extensions: Rather than extending the project and adding on two major components, it might
have been better to allow the project to close after the original construction activities were
completed. The extensions and added components (which were well designed and implemented)
were really the result of excess funds being available. These were also activities of very small size
and scope which would not have justified Bank intervention. The result was that a relatively small
amount of loan proceeds (about US$20 million) was used during the last four years, while the
budget costs for this to happen from the Bank's side included supervision for four years and the
drafting of two extensions. All in all, it would have been better to close the project in 1996 and
identify new operations in response to future disasters on the basis of the merits of those cases.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See attachment.
(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments were received from the two organizations involved in the Erzincan Reconstruction
Program, i.e., the UNDP and the Council of Europe.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 15-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Restoration of production capacity and                                     Regional GDP data at higher-than
employment in Erzincan local economy                                       pre-disaster levels from 1996 onwards
Restoration of production capacity and                                    No data available. The urban economy
employment in the Senirkent and Sutculer                                  appears restored in both cities
local economies
Strengthening the country's capacity to deal                               No data available
with future disasters
Output Indicators:
A: Onginal Project Components                                              A: Orginal Project Components
1: Housing                                                                1: Housing
(a) Housing reconstruction of 250                                          (a) 252 Govemment apartments
Government apartments (80m2 each) and                                     reconstructed, 354 cooperative apartments
940 cooperative apartments (100m2 each)                                   reconstructed
(b) Housing rehabilitationlrepair of 2700                                 (b) 777 oooperative apartments repaired
cooperative apartments (100m2 each)
2: Community facilities                                                   2: Community facilities
(a) Hospital reconstructionrehabilitation                                 (a) Hospital reconstruction/rehabilitation
Hospital 1: 275 beds                                                       Hospital 1: 150 beds and 60 beds in nurse
Hospital 2: 100 beds                                                      lodgings (10595m2)
Hospital 3: 100 beds                                                       Hospital 2: 100 beds and 60 beds nurse
Staff apartments: 500 x 75m2                                               lodgings (10134m2)
Equipment: for 475 beds                                                    Hospital 3: 100 beds and 30 beds nurse
Rehabilitation Health Post                                                 lodgings and a heating facility building
(9752m2)
500 staff apartments x 75m2
Equipment delivered, except two contracts
stil pending
Rehabilitation of Health Post canceled
(b) Schools reconstruction/rehabilitation                                 (b) Schools reconstrucion/rehabilitation
Equipment: 1410 classrooms                                                Equipment: Delivered without delays
Teachers' housing: 300 units                                               300 teachers' apartments
3: Shops and Businesses                                                   3: Shops and Businesses
Reconstruction: 1300 units x 60m2                                         39 buildings in 10 groups
Rehabilitation: 2400 units x 80m2                                         3 shopping centers
4: Public buildings                                                       4: Public buildings
Municipal offices reconstruction: 100 x                                   Municipal offices, 6,000m2
100m2
Municipal offices rehabilitation: 400 x 100m2                             Adult Education Center 2,900m2,
Bus terminal: 5000 pass/day                                                Horticulture Research Center 3,675m2,
Municipal workshops: 4                                                    National Education Center 3,792m2
Sports arena rehabilitation                                                Municipal Workshops 3,100m2
Rural Affairs Building 3,255m2
Bustermal 1253m2
- 16 -



5. Infrastructure                                                          5. Infrastructure
(a) Municipal works                                                        (a) Municipal works
Water supply: repair 650 leaks, 1200m of                                   Wastewater treatment plant
damaged pipes in 60 loations,                                               Solid waste Landfill
reconstruction
1300 inspection chambers and house                                         Sewerage, drainage, water suppty and urban
connections, equipment for maintenance                                     roads
Ditch digging                                                              Water meters and leak detection. 265 kms
Urban streets: resurface 20 kms                                            inspected, 300m3/hr of leaks detected and
Solid waste landfill                                                       repaired
Storm drainage                                                             Traffic lights at 6 junctions
Sewage treatment plant                                                     Electric network
Traffic light system rehabilitation
Electrical distribution line repair 5 km
overhead and 1.5 kms underground
Electrical distribution transformers: 33
Rehabiritation transformation stations: 4
Improve network
Buildings: 4
(b) Equipment                                                              (b) Equipment
10 dump trucks, 3 compression tnucks, 1
forklift, 2 loaders, 2 excavators, 1 compactor,
I bulldozer, 1 grader, I roller, 10 pick-ups, 1
sewerage truck, I crane- mounted truck, 1
landfill compactor.
(c) State and provincial roads;                                            (c) State and provincial roads;
100 kms of road repair                                                     canceled
Equipment                                                                  8 dump trucks, 2 truck tractors, 1 tree
transplanting machine, 10 camp trailers, 2
sprinkler trucks, 10 forklifts, 2 generators, 1
crawler tractor, 10 hydraulic breakers, 1
asphalt plant, 2 road marking machines, 2
bridge maintenance platforms, 5 mobile
cranes, 1 wireless communication system
6. Building demolition                                                     6. Building demolition
Demolition: 360,000m2 or about 100 lrge                                     No data available/completd as planned
buildings, 400 small buildings and 3,700
dwellings
Debris removal: 625,000 m3
7. Rural development                                                       7. Rural development
Cattle bams: 2500 x 120m2                                                   2885 bams built
Storage bams: 1600 x 100m2                                                  Irrigation: 27 village groups
Animals: 10,900                                                             Water supply 22 village groups
MOA Heavy Equipment                                                        Rural Roads 7 groups
Irrigation repair                                                          Animals 10348
Water supply repair                                                         Equipment: 2 vibrating rollers, 1 bulldozer, 1
grader, 2 wheel loaders
8. Sugar factory, civil defense                                            8. Sugar factory, civil defense
Repair sugar fadory chimney                                                Sugar factory chimney repaired
Materials, equipment for the dvil defense                                  Equipment: 5 rescue vehicles, 2
department                                                                  decontamination trucks
6 contracts for 12 lots of equipment
-17 -



9. Project management automation                                            9. Project management automation
Replace MWPS management information                                         Completed, but some software not accepted
system                                                                      and contract with supplier terminated. Off the
shelf software is used so the system works.
Only some specific software is not in place -
first 4 lots of 12. (adm, invest mon/eval,
regulations, documents). The 486 PCs have
been replaced.
10. Training and studies                                                    10. Training and studies
(a) Loss reduction study:
(i) revisions of Disaster Law; (ii) revisions of                           (i) A study to revise the Reconstruction law
Reconstruction law, Building Code and other                                 and include aspects on disasters was
laws related to construction; (iii) microzoning                             completed in draft September 1999;
plan for Erzincan; (iv) program of assessing                               (ii) a Public Information Campaign and
and improving public buildings in Turkey                                    Development of Training Materials for the
(b) Training of construction industry                                       Construction Industry. Materials prepared
(c) Earthquake Insurance Industry study                                    and campaign was planned, but no
(d) Urban vulnerability study                                              campaign or training activities to date;
(e) Emergency preparedness study                                           (ih) Installation of a GPS system in the
Marmara Region completed by November
1999
11. Project management
11. Project management
B. Components added at first project                                        B. Components added at first project
modification                                                                modification
1. Senirkent Rehabilitaton Program                                          1. Senirkent Rehabilitation Program
1.1 Infrastructure works and equipment                                      1.1. Infrastructure works and equipment
(a) water supply and distribution network,                                 (a) Completed as planned 10/99
wastewater network, storm water drainage
network, and roads
(b) Electrical distribution network                                        (b) Completed as planned 12/99; 6
transformer stations, 489 poles, related
network and street lighting
(c) Telecoms network
(c) Canceled
1.2. Flood & erosion Control                                                1.2 Flood and Erosion Control
Completed as planned 6/99, 3.7 million trees
planted, 24 thousand meters of fencing,
2,603 hectares planted.
C: Components added at second project                                       C: Components added at second project
modification                                                                modification
- 18 -



1. Sutculer Rehabilitation Program                                         1. Sutculer Rehabilitation Program
1.1. Infrastructure                                                        1.1. Infrastructure
(a) Water supply and distribution network,                                 Completed as planned 6100, with the Water
wastewater and storrn water drainage                                       treatment plant component dropped.
networks, simple wastewater treatment
system, and roads
(b) Electrical distribution network
(c) Telecommunication network
(d) Equipment for op & maintenance
1.2. Flood & erosion Control                                                1.2. Flood & erosion Control
600 hectares of land prepared 12,100 meters
of fencing completed to protect the 860
hectares erosion control area planted wivh
13,160 trees, 6,842 meters of stone masonry
walls to control erosion
2. Retrofitting of 26 hospitals in Istanbul and                             2. Retrofitting of 26 hospitals in Istanbul and
31 in Izmir, preliminary design and studies                                 31 In Izmir Completed 9100
for the final design drawings
End of project
Note: The "Projected in last PSR" column is left blank because the estimates of the last PSR and the "Actual/Latest
Estimates" are the same.
- 19 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost by Cor onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
Erzincan Rehabilitation and Construction          242.50          160.50           66
Training, studies, management automation, project  42.50          16.50           39
supervision and design
Senirkent Rehabilitation and Construction           0.00          16.20
Sutculer Rehabilitation and Construction            0.00           4.50
Istanbul and Izmir Hospital Retrofitting, Marmara GPS  0.00        4.00
Total Baseline Cost                               285.00         201.70
Total Project Costs           285.00         201.70
Total Financing Required           285.00         201.70
Project Costs by Procurement Arran ements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million eqlivalent)
1. Works                    0.00         142.90       34.20         0.00       177.10
(0.00)      (142.90)     (34.20)       (0.00)     (177.10)
2. Goods                    20.70        40.90         3.60         0.00        65.20
(20.70)      (40.90)      (3.60)       (0.00)      (65.20)
3. Services                 2.50         40.20         0.00         0.00        42.70
(2.50)      (40.20)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (42.70)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                    23.20        224.00        37.80        0.00        285.00
(23.20)     (224.00)     (37.80)       (0.00)      (285.00)
- 20 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
,;Pv , k -/fw  f Si  rt M         F               <Total Cost
1. Works                          0.00           101.29          23.77            0.00          125.06
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                          14.73           29.10           2.56            0.00          46.39
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
3. Services                        1.77           28.48           0.00            0.00          30.25
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                          16.50           158.87          26.33           0.00          201.70
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)
i' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
" Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financin  b  Com  onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
Reconstruction, equipment   242.50   189.70                189.15      0.00                78.0    0
and infrastructure
Project management,       42.50       12.00                12.34       0.00                29.0    0.0
training and studies
-21-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
1. Rebuilding the Erzincan Economy
Analysis of available regional GDP data for Erzincan suggest that the Erzincan economy was
rebuilt in the 3-4 years following the disaster, although it is difficult to say how much of this is due to the
reconstruction program. The earthquake caused a 10-14 percent reduction in economic activity in 1992 and
1993. This was followed by a local "boom" in 1994 probably caused by the reconstruction activities. The
Erzincan region GDP was about US$260 million in 1992, implying that the Bank's funding of $180 million
for the region, as well as the originally planned overall US$650 million reconstruction package spent over
3-4 years were very large interventions. This was followed by a return to higher-than-1991 GDP levels
from 1995 onwards with continued growth in 1996 and 1997. The "economic loss" suffered can be
illustrated by the fact that the economic growth in Erzincan was limited to 9.4 percent between 1991 and
1997, while the corresponding figure was 14.4 percent for eastem Turkey, and 33.5 percent for Turkey as
a whole.
A more detailed review shows that in 1992, the year of the earthquake, the Erzincan Region's
economy shrunk by 2.3 percent. This contraction should be compared with a positive growth rate of 4.5
percent for eastem Turkey this year, and of 6 percent for Turkey as a whole. Assuming that the Erzincan
economy would have performed as the rest of eastern Turkey had there been no earthquake, one can
assume that the earthquake caused a contraction of the economy in 1992 of 6-8 percent. In 1993, the
Erzincan economy continued to contract by 0.5 percent, while eastem Turkey and Turkey as a whole grew
by 3.7 percent and 8 percent respectively, leading to an assumption that the earthquake caused a further
contraction of 4-6 percent this year. The accumulated effect of the disaster could then be estimated at 10-14
percent of the region's GDP. In 1994, the Erzincan economy grew by 7.9 percent, possibly reflecting the
reconstruction efforts, while the rest of eastern Turkey contracted 0.5 percent. The slowing down of the
reconstruction work led to regional GDP falling by 3.4 percent in 1995, but the activity level settled at just
above the 1991 (pre-disaster) level. 1996 saw a GDP expansion of 0.9 percent which increased to a
respectable 7 percent in 1997, the last year for which data is available.
There are no statistics illuminating the dynamic process whereby the Erzincan economy was
reconstructed. However, anecdotal evidence indicates that many of the entrepreneurs and richer parts of the
population left Erzincan after the earthquake. Many of those who could leave did, and settled in other parts
of Turkey, mainly in the economically more active western parts. Many of those who left were owners and
operators of factories and businesses, and in many cases they appointed caretakers or managers to take
over. Demographically, therefore, the earthquake caused out-migration of the richer and most enterprising
people which was matched by some in-migration from the surrounding areas.
2. Project Components
The project components are summarized as follows:
A: Housing, total cost US$44.2 = 22 percent of total project cost, estimated IRR = 11 percent
B: Shops and businesses, total cost US$22.5 million = 11 percent of total project cost, estimated
IRR = 7 percent
C: Hospitals, total cost US$35 million   17 percent of total project cost, low costs per units,
appropriate standards
- 22 -



D: Equipment, total cost US$22 million = 11 percent of total project cost
E: Other civil works, infrastructure, total cost US$65 million = 33 percent of total cost
F: Consultants services, total cost US$12 million = 6 percent of total project cost
A: Erzincan Housing Component
Benefits:         252 reconstructed government apartments, 500 apartments for hospital staff, 300
apartments for teachers, 354 reconstructed cooperative apartments, 777 repaired
cooperative apartments; in total 2,183 apartments of on average 90m.
Value:           The market value of each apartment is assessed at $200 per month.
Costs:           Three contracts of a total of $44.16 million, or $20,200 per apartment. This amounts
to 22 percent of total project cost (at $200 million).
Rate of Return:  Comparing the assessed market rental value with the costs for the three
reconstruction/repair contracts yields a rate of return of 11 percent. Key assumptions:
Costs $10 million the first year and $34.16 the second year. Benefits starting the third
year and lasting for 25 years.
B: Shops and Businesses Component
Benefits:         387 shops reconstructed in six shopping centers, 512 shops rehabilitated in 39
different buildings, 275 offices reconstructed in six shopping centers, 143 apartments
in 39 different buildings.
Value:            The rental market value is assessed at $130 per month for each shop, $50 per month
for each office, and $200 per month for each apartment. Average rental value for each
unit in this component is $155 per month.
Costs:            Three contracts of in total $22.5 million, or $16.5 thousand for each unit. This
amounts to 11 percent of total project cost.
Rate of Return:  Comparing the assessed market rental value with the costs for the three
reconstruction/repair contracts yields a rate of return of 7 percent. Key assumptions:
Costs $5 million the first year and $17.5 the second year. Benefits starting the third
year and lasting for 25 years.
C: Hospitals Component
Benefits:         Three hospitals with a total of 350 beds were reconstructed, furnished and equipped.
This included 150 associated nurse lodgings.
Costs:           Total cost for the rehabilitation/reconstruction was $20.5 million, and the furniture
and equipment costs amounted to $14.4 million. This is equivalent to 17 percent of
total project cost. This corresponds to 85m' per bed, $59 thousand per bed in
rehabilitation/reconstruction costs, $41 thousand in cost per bed for furniture and
- 23 -



equipment, or a total cost per bed of $100 thousand. Per square meter, the costs are
$683 for the reconstruction, and $476 for furniture and equipment, in total $1,059 per
square meter.
The costs for this component are very low and the standards appropriate. The 85m
per bed compares to a norm of lOOmr in many industrialized countries. The $1,059
total cost per square meter compares to a figure of $1,700 for a recently completed
Bank supported medical facility in Estonia (excluding beds). The total cost per bed, at
$100 thousand, compares to an industry average of $250-350 thousand for first rate
hospitals in many industrialized countries, with $120 thousand being the benchmark
for less modern facilities in poorer countries.
D: Equipment (excluding hospital equipment andfurniture)
About US$22 million, or 11 percent of total project cost, was used for equipment
E: Civil Works, Buildings, Infrastructure (other than housing, hospitals, shops and businesses)
US$65 million, 33 percent of total cost
F. Consultants Services
US$12 million, 6 percent of total cost
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle             No. of Perons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(eg 2 Eoonomists4 I FMS, ett.    Implemeation       Development
Month/Year    Co, t       Specia.y  P_-g5s                                Objective
Identification/Preparation
04/92                        6   1 Economist, I Reconstruction
Specialist, I Housing Specialist,
I Water & Sanitation Specialist,
I Seismic Expert, I
Post-Disaster Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
06/92                        4   1 Economist, I Financial
Specialist, I Procurement
Specialist, I Engineer
Supervision
08/92                         2  1 Engineer, I Procurement
09/92                         1  Disaster Prevention
11192                         2  1 Engineer, 1 Procurement
09/93                         3  1 FMS, I Engineer, I                S                 S
Procurement
06/94                         2  1 FMS, I Engineer                   S                 S
12/94                        2  1 FMS, I Engineer                    S                 S
02/95                         2  1 FMS, I Engineer                   S                 S
10/95                            Engineer                            S                 S
07/97                         2  1 FMS, I Engineer                   S                 S
10/98                        2  1 FMS, I Engineer                    S                 S
06/99                         1  1 Engineer                          S                 S
06/00                         2  1 FMS, I Engineer                   S                 S
ICR
-25-



(b) Staff.
Stag Of ProjectCycl                               culLtetEtmt
ISf*:L __._____________________            No..  :.f   e k                   U  $ ( 0 0
IdentificationWPreparation                      34.2                             95.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                           35.4                            105.6
Supervision                                    233.0                            420.0
ICR
Total                                          302.6                            620.9
Note: The figures for "Supervision" include those for "ICR"
- 26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-=Negligible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
ZMacro policies                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Sector Policies                          OH  OSUOM  S N  O NA
3 Physical                                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
M Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
X Institutional Development               O H  O SUO M  O N  0 NA
3Environmental                            O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
0 Gender                           O H OSUOM O N * NA
D Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
X Private sector development              0 H  O SU SM  0 N  0 NA
z Public sector management                0 H  0 SU S M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
 Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
 Supervision                                         OHS OS  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                             OHS Os O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
Z Preparation                                        OHS OS  O  U  O HU
* Government implementation performance              O HS OS   0  U  0 HU
* Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS   0  U  O HU
* Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Turkey - Erzincan Region Earthquake Rehabilitation Project, Preliminary Findings of the World Bank
Mission on Damage and Needs Assessment, The World Bank, April 1992.
Report and Recommendation of the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Loan in an Amount Equivalent to US$285 million
to the Republic of Turkey for an earthquake Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project, June 1, 1992,
Report No. P-58 I 0-TU.
Proposed Amendments to the Loan Agreement to Support the Senirkent Emergency Reconstruction
Program, Turkey, Earthquake Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project (Loan 3511-TU), the World
Bank, November 20, 1995.
Proposed Amendments to the Loan Agreement to Support the Sutculer Emergency Reconstruction Program
and the Design of Seismic Retrofitting of Hospitals in Istanbul and Izmir, Turkey, Earthquake
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project (Loan 351 1-TU), the World Bank, June 5, 1997.
Progress Report (No. 1-31), Disaster Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project (Loan No: 351 IA-TU
Republic of Turkey, Prime Ministry, Project Implementation Unit, from 1992 to 2000.
Quality of Supervision Assessment, Turkey Earthquake Reconstruction ID-9099, Quality Assurance
Group, The World Bank, July 20, 1999.
- 29 -






REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PRIME MINISTRY
(PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION
REPORT
(ICR)
FOR
ERZINCAN EARTHQUAKE
REHABILITATION AND
RECONSTRUCTION (ERRP) PROJECT
(LOAN NO: 3511 A-TU)






ERZINCAN EARTHOUAKE REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION
PROJECT
INTRODUCTION
This Report is prepared for purposes of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) in
accordance with the World Bank procedures.
THE PROTECT
The earthquake experienced by Turkey on March 13, 1992 caused extensive damage to
Erzincan city and its surrounding area in northeast Turkey. The most serious damage affected
a 400m-wide band on both sides of Erzincan's main street. The Municipal Buildings, markets,
schools and housing were severely damaged.
In response to the Erzincan Earthquake, the Republic of Turkey has received a loan from the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) in various currencies towards
the cost of the Earthquake Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project in Erzincan, (known
hereinafter as "ERRP"). The scope of the project was amended to finance Senirkent project,
Siitciiler project and Hospital Retrofitting Project from the same loan.
The responsibility for the implementation of the ERRP was allocated to a Minister of State
and Project was implemented by the Housing Development Administration (HDA) through its
Project Coordination Unit (PCU).
Erzincan Earthquake Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project has been in effect since July
27, 1992, the date of signing the Loan Agreement No. 351 I-TU and approved by the Council
of Ministers on August 6, 1992 with Decree no. 92/3352. The scope of the ERRP is defined in
detail in the Report of the World Bank no. P-5810-TU dated July 1, 1992.
Housing Development Administration (HDA) was authorized to implement the project based
upon the protocols signed between the Treasury and HDA dated November 11, 1992, March
11, 1996 and August 25, 1997.
The Loan Agreement was revised to included Senirkent Project on January 19, 1996 and
hence the title of the Project was changed as "DISASTER REHABILITATION AND
RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT", and the date of termination of the Loan was extended from
June 30, 1996 to December 31, 1999.
Second amendment to the Loan was signed on August 22, 1997 to permit financing of
reconstruction and rehabilitation of flood-damaged infrastructure at Sutci,ler and the design of
seismic retrofitting of hospitals in 'stanbul and Vzmir and also to cancel US$ 42 million of
unused funds from the loan. The date of termination of the Loan was extended to June 30,
2000.
The Loan Agreement has become effective since September 18, 1992 as per condition of the
Article V of the Agreement.
This report comprises a brief description of each project component.
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
The institutional framework for the execution of the ERRP is set out in the World Bank
Report No. P-5810-TU. The responsibility for the overall coordination of the Project has been



allocated to the Minister of State. The Housing Development Administration (HDA) has been
entrusted with the authority and responsibility for the implementation of the Project. The
HDA, in turn, had carried out its activities under the Project through the Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) and the Erzincan Management Unit (EMU). Formal terms of reference have been
implemented between HDA and PCU and EMU for this purpose. PCU and EMU were
established in 1992 in Ankara and in Erzincan respectively. However, EMU was closed down
on January 31, 1996 upon completion of the main site activities in Erzincan. The Project was
also subject to the overall policy guidance of a Steering Committee comprised of various
Ministries and Agencies.
All Ministries/Agencies in the Project were required to procure their respective works, goods
and services under the coordination of the HDAIPCU. Therefore the implementation of the
Project involved the HDA/PCU, amongst others, in the following range of activities:
-     Co-ordination of all project related activities of the various Ministries/Agencies for
which works, equipment and goods formed part of the Project,
-     Procurement of works, goods and services on behalf of various Ministries/Agencies,
-     Maintenance of and disbursement of Finances in respect of the Project Works,
-     Recruitment of Advisory Services,
-     Responsibility for the day-to-day implementation of the Project,
-     Administration of Contracts with Contractors and Consultants, etc. including review
and approval of all documents prepared for the various contracts.
However, it had turned out that HDA/PCU had to procure major part of the goods and works
on behalf of the Ministries/Agencies to speed up the implementation of the whole program.
The "PCU" formed under Earthquake Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project has been
reorganized and become (PIU) Project Implementation Unit since October SI", 1998, to
Implement "TEFER" Project as well.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
ERRP Project was financed for demolition, reconstruction, rehabilitation and repair activities
in the urban and rural areas including:
* cooperative and government housing, hospitals, office and shop buildings and key
infrastructure,
*  procurement of critical commodities including livestock, and
*  training and studies to reduce earthquake vulnerability.
A detailed description of the Project is given below.
ERZYNCAN PROJECT
I-1   Housing
(i)    Works
The Housing Component consisted of the reconstruction of Government Apartments (252
units), housing for medical staff (500 units) and teachers (300 units), and reconstruction,
-2-



rehabilitation and repair of Co-operatives houses (approximately 777 units rehabilitation and
repair, 354 units reconstruction).
Three of the Housing Contractors: YC,TAP, SUTEK and ERE had lawsuits against HDA
regarding application of base index and time extension claims.
The court cases with SUTEK were resulted in favour of the HDA. The other court cases with
YI'TAb and ERE for the time extension is still underway.
(ii)   Consultancv Services
The Consulting Services for the implementation of this component was provided by
SEYAD/WYMAT Consortium.
Despite of PIU's continued efforts to maintain the contract with the Consultants, their
uncompromisable attitude with the contractors, PIU and even among themselves brought the
progress of this component to a halt. Therefore the Contract with the consultant was
terminated on 23.08.1996 and consequently their securities were turned into cash to indemnify
the PIU's losses. A court case is still underway regarding the termination of the consultants'
contract.
I -2  Community Facilities - Hospitals
(i) Works
The Community Facilities Component of the ERRP consisted of reconstruction of the State
Hospital Complex, reconstruction of the Military Hospital, reconstruction of the Social
Security Hospital, rehabilitation of a Health Post and procurement of hospital equipment and
furniture. The details of the works are as follows:
(i)    State Hospital       :      General Hospital (150 beds) with
Nurse Lodgings (60 beds) and
rehabilitation of existing buildings at this
complex.
(ii)   Social Security Hospital: General Hospital (100 beds) with
Nurse Lodgings (60 beds)
(iii)   Military Hospital   :     General Hospital (100 beds) with
Nurse Lodgings (30 beds) and a
Heating Facility Building.
The construction of the hospital buildings were completed on the dates indicated in Annex A
incorporated in this report. The hospitals have been in service since May 1996.
(ii)   Consulting Services
Consulting Services for the implementation of this component was provided by
VAMED/Prokon Consortium.
(iii) Goods
The suppliers of both medical equipment and furniture for the aforementioned hospitals also
completed their contractual obligations.
- 3 -



1 -3   Schools
School equipment and furniture damaged during the earthquake were replaced in Erzincan and
Tunceli.
All of the Suppliers completed their contractual obligations.
1 -4   Shops/Businesses
(i)   Works;
The Shops/Businesses Component consisted of the reconstruction, rehabilitation and repair of
shops/businesses damaged by the earthquake at various locations in Erzincan. This component
of the project was fully completed and the buildings were handed over to the owners.
(ii)   Consulting Services;
The Consulting Services for the implementation of this component was provided by YALCIN
TEKNIK / LOUIS BERGER Joint Venture.
I -5   Municipal Infrastructure Works and Public Buildines
(i)   Works;
This component of the ERRP involved mainly the Municipal Infrastructure Works in
Erzincan, Municipal Offices, Public Buildings and procurement of equipment for the
Municipality of Erzincan.
Stadium wall, Adult Education Center and Agricultural Research Center Buildings, Bus
Terminal and Municipal Building under Public Buildings Package I (WPB-1) and Rural
Affairs Administration Building, National Education Building and Municipal Workshops
under Public Buildings Package 2 (WPB.2) were completed and handed over to the users.
The Treatment Works and the Sanitary Landfill works-Infrastructure Works Package No: I
were completed, and handed over to the Municipality.
Infrastructure Works Package No: 2 (WIF-2) including rehabilitation and reconstruction of
water distribution network, wastewater and stormwater drainage network and roads were also
completed and handed over to the Municipality.
Traffic Lights
The works under the Contract for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Traffic Lights in
Erzincan with ULTRA were completed, taking over certificates were issued and handed over
to the Municipality. ULTRA raised some claims regarding the "escalation" of the prices which
were not acceptable to the Consultants and appealed to the court. The court's decision was in
favor of the HDA/PCU.
(ii)  Consulting Services
The Consulting Services for the implementation of this component was provided by
COWI/TEMAT Joint Venture.
-4 -



I -6   State and Provincial Roads
(i)    Component Description
This component of the ERRP originally consisted of the repair/rehabilitation and
reconstruction of about 100 km highways between Refahiye-Erzincan-Tercan Road and the
procurement of equipment.
Although the road construction part of this component was cancelled, following the
negotiations between the Treasury and the Bank for revitalization of the project, it was
decided to continue to finance this component under the ERRP in 1997 (Please see
prg.2.13.1).
Procurement of the equipment for KGM was fully completed and handed over.
1 -7   Buildings Demolition
This component of the project was fully completed.
1 -8   Rural Development
The Rural Development Component of the ERRP consisted of:
Replacement of Animals Operational Costs & Debris Removal
Procurement of equipment,
Construction of barns & supervision,
Rural water supply works,
Rural irrigation works, and
Rural road works.
All of the works and procurement of goods regarding this component were fully completed.
1 -9   SuEar Factory/Civil Defense
Two separate elements are included under this project component:
-     repairs and reconstruction of the minor damages and the chimney of the Sugar Factory,
and
-     procurement of equipment for the General Directorate of Civil Defense.
Repair and reconstruction works for the Sugar Factory were fully completed.
Five (5) rescue vehicles and the decontamination systems were procured and delivered to
General Directorate of Civil Defense.
1 -10  Electrical Works
This component of the ERRP comprises the repair, rehabilitation and reconstruction of
electrical works in Erzincan.
This project was implemented by the Turkish Electricity Authority (TEDAD) under the
coordination of PIU. The works are completed.
- 5 -



1 -11  Project Management Automation
(i)    Component Description
Under this component of the ERRP, by reviewing the existing information system of the
MPWS, the necessary computers, software, training and technical assistance were supposed to
be obtained.
The consulting services to implement the Project Management Automation were provided by
Middle East Technical University (METU).
All software and hardware were delivered, and final acceptance certificates were issued for all
lots except Lots 1, 2, 3 and 4 involving some specific software for MPWS. In spite of several
attempts, the Supplier could not succeed to finalize the specific software under Lots 1 through
4.
The specific software developed by the Supplier was eventually tested and commissioned by
the MPWS and Consultants in June 2000. Both found that the specific software was not
acceptable. Therefore, by considering also that the loan was no longer to be extended, the
Contract with Siemens/Nixdorf was terminated for the Supplier's Default by the PMIPIU and
the supplier's performance security was forfeited.
1 -12  Training and Studies
A seismic risk prevention and mitigation program consisting of technical training and studies
was carried out together with the General Directorate of Disaster Affairs (GDDA) of the
Ministry of Public Works and Settlement (MPWS) under this component of the ERRP.
The major achievements in this component of ERRP are as follows:
a)    A training course was conducted by the GDDA on small scale in 1993.
b)    The by-laws regarding construction of buildings to include earthquake resistance were
amended by the MPWS.
c)    The Earthquake map was prepared and distributed by the GDDA.
d)    The Weak Motion and Strong Motion seismic equipment was procured and handed
over to the GDDA.
e)    Consulting services to determine the scope of the amendments to the existing
Law of Construction to include the measures for disasters:
The research to amend the construction Law No: 3194 and its by-laws for the inclusion
of a new construction control system and measures of resistance against disasters were
carried out together with the Ministry of Public Works and Settlement (MPWS).
The Consultants' Services of this component were provided by the Middle East
Technical University (METU).
METU submitted the Final Report on September 20, 1999. Since the approval of
MPWS was provided on time, PIU prosecuted its comments to the Consultants for the
completion of Final Report Stage and approved the report on January 20, 2000.
f)    A campaign for raising public consciousness on precautions against natural
disasters to minimize the damages and for training of the construction workers
and foremen on construction techniques:
- 6 -



The studies regarding the preparation of campaign materials were carried out together
with the Ministry of Public Works and Settlement (MPWS) under this component.
The Consultants' Services of this component were provided by EMA and the
campaign materials within the scope of two sub-components of this study were
completed and submitted to MPWS. Since the approval of the MPWS was provided on
time, the PIU approved the documentation and the report. Subsequently the
Consultants reproduced the campaign materials and submitted to the MPWS to
conduct the campaign.
II.    THE PROJECTS INCLUDED LATER IN THE ERRP
Following project components were decided to be incorporated in the ERRP with the consent
of the Bank due to the fund remained from the Erzincan Project completed.
II -1 State and Provincial Roads
As stated before, ERRP was originally consisted of this component as Refahiye-Erzincan-
Tercan Road. Since the KGM was not able to finalize the tender procedure it was decided to
cancel this part of the ERRP. Later on, it was decided to continue to finance this component
under the ERRP following the negotiations with the Bank.
A protocol was prepared by the HDA and signed with the KGM on 23.07.1997 following the
Bank's no objection dated June 30, 1997. KGM was informed that the proper designs had to be
prepared within 1997 before tendering the construction works to bring the Project to success.
The KGM insisted on using the bidding documents prepared for some other World Bank
financed project without any acceptable design, technical specifications and BOQs despite of
PIU's comments and objection. Therefore, PIU submitted the documents to the Bank together
with their comments for their "no-objection". Since no sufficient time was left for the
completion of this component it was decided to drop out this component.
II -2 Network of Continuously Recordinm GPS Stations
This component of the ERRP consisted of establishing a continuously recording GPS network
in the Marmara Region. This component was implemented by the Scientific and Technical
Research Council of Turkey (TUBYTAK) under the coordination of the PIU.
A protocol was signed between the HDA and the TUIBYTAK on 23.06.1997 following the
Bank's no objection received on June 19, 1997.
The following equipment was procured under this Component.
i) Lot 1- GPS Observation Networks,
ii) Lot 2- Unix Based Computers and Facilities
iii) Lot 5- Equipment and Tools For Various Seismological Studies
iv) Lot 6- Seismological Sensors
v) Lot 7- Broadband Sensors
vi) Lot 8- Seismological Recorders and Facilities
vii) Lot 9- Software for GIS
viii) LotlO- Telecommunication Infrastructure
All the items included in the Protocol signed with TUBITAK were fully completed.
The details for each Components of Erzincan Project are given in Annex A enclosed herewith.
- 7-



II-3 SENY'RKENT PROJECT
The works under Senirkent Project were grouped into a number of components as follows:
(i)    Repair, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Municipal Infrastructure (water supply
and distribution network, wastewater and storm water drainage networks and roads)
(ii)   Repair and Rehabilitation of Electric Distribution Networks
(iii)   Repair and Rehabilitation of Telecommunication Network
(iv)   Flood and Erosion Control Project
(v)   Afforestation Project
Agreements in the form of Protocols were signed between the HDA and the following
authorities for the project components as indicated;
(i)   for the Municipal Infrastructure with Senirkent Municipality,
(ii)   for the Repair and Rehabilitation of the Senirkent Electricity Distribution Network
with the General Directorate of the Turkish Electricity Distribution Corporation,
(iii)  for the Repair and Rehabilitation of the Telecommunication Network of Senirkent
with the General Directorate of Turkish Telecommunication company,
(iv)   for the Isparta-Senirkent Flood and Erosion Control with General Directorate of the
State Hydraulic Works,
(v)   for the Afforestation of the Catchment Areas of Dooru and Suyolu Creeks with the
General Directorate of Afforestation,
All the works mentioned above were fully completed.
The details for each Components of Senirkent Project are given in Annex B enclosed
herewith.
11-4  SUTCULER PROJECT
The components of Sutci,ler Project may be summarized as follows
(i)    Repair, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Municipal Infrastructure (water supply
and distribution network, wastewater and stormwater drainage networks, simple
wastewater treatment system and roads),
(ii)   Repair and Rehabilitation of Electric Distribution Network,
(iii)   Repair and Rehabilitation of Telecommunication Network,
(iv)   Flood and Erosion Control Project,
(v)   Afforestation Project, and
(vi)   Equipment for the operation and maintenance of the infrastructure systems.
Agreements in the form of Protocols were signed between the HDA and the following
authorities:
(i)    Sut,icler Municipality,
-8 -



(ii)    General Directorate of Afforestation (AGM),
(iii)   Turkish Electricity Distribution Corporation (TEDAP),
(iv)    General Directorate of the State Hydraulic Works (DSY'),
All the works mentioned above were completed.
The details for each Components of Suttciiler Project are given in Annex C enclosed herewith.
II -5 HOSPITALS RETROFITTING PROJECT
26 hospitals in Ystanbul and 31 hospitals in X'zmir were surveyed to determine whether the
hospitals had been designed and constructed to sufficient seismic resistance standards. Seismic
retrofitting designs were prepared for the hospitals that need strengthening.
The Services under this Project were fully completed.
The details for this Project Component are also given in Annex C enclosed herewith.
FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES
Accounting and auditing
PIU has developed its own accounting and budgeting system, on the basis of acceptable
accounting principles in accordance with the International Accounting Standards and in line
with the provisions of the Loan Agreement NO. 3511 A-TU.
All functions of the Accounting Department have been fully computerized. The billing system,
general ledger, receivables, collections, fixed assets, inventories etc.. have been computerized
through a fully integrated system.
Financial statements consisting of balance sheet, income and expenditure account, cash flow
statements etc.. are prepared annually. Annual audits of the financial statements and the
special account are systematically carried out by the Auditor of the Treasury of the Republic
of Turkey.
-g






ANNEX A






Category 1: Civil Works                                                 ERZINCAN PROJECT
114
Clearance     Cail               Clearance   Contract
Description                Contractor       of Bid.      for       Bid       of Eval.   Signature    Comm.         Date of            Contract                     Cost
Doc. by      Bid     Opening    Rep. by      Date        Date        Takdng Overl          Amount         Curr.         USS
WB                               WB                              Final Acceptance
PUBLIC BULDN0s
.1. Cont. Package (WPB1)          iNTES            21.06.93    09.06.93    26.07.93    10.06.93    31.08.93    16.08.93    27.11.95102.01.97      50,507,902,356  TL          3,211,874.07
11I. Cont. Packsag  WPB2)         GUA   .;        07.02.94     08.02.94    24.03.94    01.04.94    19.04.94    07.04.94    11 .07.95123.09.96     67.942,598,728  TI          2,793.458.96
-  Sub -Total -_ _                                                                                  __                      1,50 0S4  TL                 60530
Sub-T ta! ______~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   _.____._._ . ....... ....   ... ... .____......  _.    ._._ _____1S40510  _.__ 60..5,3...0
HOSPITALS
-WHF1 (SSK)                        NTA..             25.11.93    19.11.93   14.01.94    22.02.94    07.03.94    04.03.94    14.11.95114.11.96    117,29.3,77701   TIL,7,68
-WHF2 (Miletary Hosp.)             GUNAL A..          25.11.93    19.11.93   14.01.94    21.02.94    01.03.94    28.02.94    10.11.95110.11.96   115,226,538.464  TL           6,897,465.33
*WHF3 (state)                     TEPE AdAr, MTA   25.11.93    19.11.93   14.01.94    15.02.94    28.03.94    28.02.94    10.11.95/10.11.96      132,173,639,000  TI          7,527,717.57
inv. San. A.S.
Sub - Toa                                                                                       ______                  364,693d94s47_  TL _  _        498,449.74
-I. Cont. Package (WI1)            IQTA               23.12.93    29.12.93   11.02.94    22.03.94    04.04.94    25.03.94    09.09.95/24.10.97   364,531,099,441   TL         13,852,192.74
-II. Cont. Package (WH2)          ERE                23.12.93    29.12.93   11.02.94    22.03.94    30.03.94    25.03.94    09.09.95/14.08.97    312,541,356,07   TI         12,470.460.99
_  lIlCont. Pack ge _       _                         2 SUTEK  25.02.94    28.02.94   14.04.9    18.05.94    01.06.94    31.05.94_   14.07.95o10.09.96  471,862,12  TI        17.8,522.56
-SHOPIBUSIESSESSub . Total ________1,148.934,576.518  TL                                                                                                                  44,153.176.29
- SHOPSIBtJSItESSES
Ml. Cont. Package (WSB1)                              22.06.93    21.06.93   05.08.93     cancelled in Dec. 1993
-II. Cont. Package (WSB2)         INTES A.-.          08.02.94    04.02.94   22.03.94    01.04.94    15.04.94    08.04.94    10.11.95/11.12.96   148,021,155,500  TL           5,859,080.26
-Ill. Cont. Package (WSB3)         YENIGON A.5.       04.03.94    04.03.94   19.04.94    04.05.94    18.05.94    25.05.94    27.06.95/27.06.96   255,103,407,400  TL           9,346.238.71
-IV,Cont. Package (INS134)        IOTA$        ..    25.03.94    01.04.94   16.05.94    08.06.94    23.06.94    13.06.94    22.09.96/02.12.96    247754968TI                  7,317,308.89
_________Sb      a   _    __ _. ..._...                      ___._.                 _     .._    _.    _...    _._..   _   .___  .....8  _6TIso0s  _ 2 5_2,667 ........ 
_____________      Sub  -Total                                                                                                                                                    8
- UIJN. INFRASTRUCTURE
1 . Cont. Package (WIFI)          ALARKONINSAN J   26.01.94    21 .01.94   08.03.94    25.03.94    29.04.94    18.04.94    09.11.95/12.02.97     164,720,080,63   TI          7,298.045.46
(Tr. Plant & San. Land.)
-II. Cont. Package (WIF2)          igTA*              26.01.94    21 .01.94   09.03.94    14.04.94    22.04.94    18.04.94    15.10.96/15.10.97  276,226,143,409  TL           5,731,924.65
(Networks)
Traffic Signals                   uLTR            15.09.94     07.10.94 _   311094    281194 __ 28.12.94    06.12.94    06.1219886tz97            2 .1__                        7186
Su-otl65.9002,5 TL                                                                                                                             13.101.088.



Category 1: Civil Works                                                 ERZINCAN PROJECT
214
Clearance     Call               Clearance   Contract
Description                Contractor       of Bid.      for       Bid       of Eval.   Signature    Comm.         Date of            Contract                     Cost
Doc. by      Bid     Opening    Rep. by      Date        Date      Final Acceptance        Amount         Curr.         USS
WB                               WB
. KGM (WKGM-1)                                           25.11.93    18.01.94   07.03.94    08.06.94  cancelled.  To be re-tendered
- BARNS & STORAGE BARNS               By the beneficiarie           _                      19.09.92              24.10.92        18.06.94            147,125,0,0 ,00f  TL        13,091,826.67
Sub - Total                                                                                                             147,125,000,000  TL          13,091,826.67
-                                             -   .-      ..   _ .  ...., ,.,,ub  Toal...... ... .. .. .. .... ......  .  .... ......... . . . . . . . . . . .. . ....1471250.. ...TL..t,91,2 6
* RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Irrigation Projects
-Bayirba6-Karakaya-Pikida          B. Din,er          20.04.93   07.06.95    07.07.95  04.08.95    14.07.95    18.07.95       19.10.95               488,128,200  TL
-Keklikkayasi-Kurutilek-Demirk.      S. Demird6gen      20.04.93   29.07.93   11.08.93  02.09.93     07.09.93    23.09.93       27.06.94               427,325,182  TL
-Dereyurt-Yalnizba6                  F. Alp             20.04.93   29.07.93   11.08.93  02.09.93     10.09.93    13.09.93       27.06.94               408,141,822  TL
-Ekmekli-Heybeli                     N. Batur           20.04.93   29.07.93   11.08.93  02.09.93     09,09.93    10.09.93       01.07.94               738,172,260  TL
-CevizIi-Aydogdu                     N. K. Korkmaz      20.04.93   29.07.93    11.08.93  02.09.93    20.09.93    20.09.93       31.10.94               411,537,280  TL
.CaybaSi                             N. Sazli           20.04.93   29.07.93   11.08.93  02.09.93    07.09.93    08.09.93       07.10.94                296,962,903  TL
.Caybai Mak. Kazisi                 Ddn. Ser. i.M     20.04.93   29.07.93   11.08.93  02.09.93    10.09.93    08.09.93       06.07.94                40,399,188  TL
-YaylabaI Mercan Deresi             S. Sarak           20.04.93   29.07.93    11.08.93  02.09.93    13.09.93    14.09.93       18.07.94               485,898,150  TL
-Geyikli                             M. Yaltin          20.04.93   29.07.93    11.08.93  02.09.93    09.09.93    10.09.93       31.10.94               332,673,740  TL
-Yenikoy                              Y. Kurtaran        20.04.93   29.07.93    11.08.93  02.09.93   10.09.93    13.09.93       27.06.94                609,643,465  TL
-Esmepinar                           B. Din,er          20.04.93   29.07.93    11.08.93  02.09.93    10.09.93    13.09.93       27.06.94               406,551,378  TL
-Binkoq-Tarkmenoglu-Ki1imli          E. Altun           20.04.93   29.07.93   11.08.93  02.09.93     13.09.93    14.09.93       31.10.94               490,317,878  TL
-Besgdze                             S. Kili A,iran     20.04.93   29.07.93    11.08.93  02.09.93    07.09.93    10.09.93       07.10.94               422,064,177  TL
-Corekli                             Z. Sezgin          20.04.93   29.07,93    11.08,93  02.09.93    Jun-93    terminated                            (291.919.820)  TL
-Tirkmenoglu-Binko,-Kilimli-PooI     Erbil Altun        20.04.93   16.05.94    17.06.94  24.08.94    15.07.94    20.07.94       16.01.95               512,300,470  TL
-Pinaroni                            B. Yilmaz          20.04.93   15.10.93    23.11..93 24.08.94    04.10.93    01.05.94       14.07.94               262,909,364  TL
-Erdene-Derebag                                         20.04.93   29.07.93    No bid
-GUnebakan-Budayfi-Bai pinar        F. Alp             20.04.93   15.10.93    23.11.93  24.08.94    04.01.94    01.05.94       28.07.94               232,210,419  TL
-Oulcuk-Tatlis,                     A. Canpolat        20.04.93   15.10.93    23.11.93  24.08.94    13.01 .94    01.05.94      07.10.94               440,038,727  TL
.Davartb                             S. Klitki,hran     20.04.93   15.10.93    23.11.93  24.08.94   04.10.93    01.05.94       31.10.94               283,933,842  TL
.Davarli Mak. Kazis,                DMn. Ser. ;i.M      20.04.93   15.10.93    25.11.93  24.08.94   21.02.94    25.02.94       11.10.94                23,420,250  TL
-Maksutuat                         H. Tanyeli         20.04.93   15.10.93    23.11.93  24.08.94    10.01.94    25.02.94       16.01.95               146,342.991  TL
.Koruyolu                           M. Yal9in           20.04.93   15.10.93    23.11.93  24.08.94   10.01.94    25.02.94       16.01.95               474,084,726  TL
.Koruyolu Mak. Kazis,               Don. Ser. i,.M      20.04.93   15.10.93    25.11.93  24.08.94   21.02.94    25.02.94       11.10.94                46,840,500  TL
-,it                                 o. Gezid           20.04.93   07.06.95    07.07.95  04.08.95    21.07.95    08.08.95       15.07.96              1,269,742,140  TL
-Sarikoc                             Merve Ltd.         20.04.93   07.06.95    07.07.95  04.08.95    31.08.95    01.09.95       11.07.96              1,058,208,480  TL
-Ko,kaya                             E. Allun           20.04.93   15.10.93    24.11.93  24.08.94    06.01.94    01.05.94       16.01.95               441,171,592  TL
.Hastarla                           B. Dinger           20.04,93   15.10.93    24.11.93  24.08.94   05.01.94    01.05.94       31.10.94               462,494,070  TL
.Hastara Mak. Kazisi                Don. Ser. i.M      20.04.93   15,10.93    25.11.93  24.08.94   21.11.93    25.02.94       25.10.94                 19,509,068  TL
-OrtakOy                             N. K. Korkmaz      20.04.93   15.10.93    24.11.93  24.08.94    04.11.93    25.02.94       16.01 .95              317,790,653 ITL
.Gelinpinar                         N. Batur            20.04.93   15.10.93    24.11.93  24.08.94   03.01 .94    25.02.94      31.10.94               409,943,803  TL
.Gelinpinarl Mak. Kazisi            DOn. Ser. is.M      20.04.93   15.10.93    25.11.93  24.08.94   21.02.94    24.02.94       25.10.94                23,216.445  TL



Category 1: Civil Works                                                ERZiNCAN PROJECT
3_4
Clearance    Call               Clearance  Contract
Description                Contractor      of Bid.      for       Bid      of Eval.   Signature    Comm.         Date of            Contract                    Cost
Doc. by      Bid     Opening    Rep. by     Date        Date      Final Acceptance       Amount         Curr.         USS
WB                              WB
-lrIkpinar-Olaktepe                S. Demirdbgen      20.04.93   15.10.93    24.11.93  24.08.94   04.01.94    24.02.94       07.07.94               163,070,659  TL
-Cadirkaya                          D. Serbay          20.04.93   15.10.93    24.11.93  24.08.94   10.01.94    24.02.94       07.10.94               106,576,279  TL
-Kayacik                             K. Akkaya         20.04.93   15.10.93    24.11.93  24.08.94   19.01.94    24.02.94       31.10.94               578,929,449  TL
* Water Supply
*Akyazi Grb.                        S. Akdag           12.11.93   17.11.93    20.12.93    02.09.93  18.02.94   16.05.94       10.09.94               245,480,000  TL
-Hanciaiftliffi                     D. Serbay          12.11.93   17.11.93    20.12.93    02.09.93  17.03.94   11.05.94       16.09.94                35,200,000  TL
-Yalinca Grb.                       D. Serbay          12.11.93   17.11.93    20.12.93    02.09.93  17.03.94   02.05.94       16.09.94                71,148,000  TL
-Oglaktepe                          N. K. Korkmaz       12.11.93   17.11.93    20.12.93    02.09.93  18.03.94   13.05.94      16.09.94                43,000,000  TL
-Keklikkayasi                       Z. Sezgin          12.11.93   17.11.93    20.12.93    02.09.93  01.03.94   06.05.94       25.09.94               150,165,000  TL
-Mecidiye                           S. Erdogan         12.11.93   17.11.93    20.12.93    02.09.93  23,02.94   10.05.94       14.09.94               156,000,000  TL
-Sog0toz0                           C. Yavuz            12.11.93   17.11.93    21.12.93    02.09.93  18.02.94   13.05.94      10.09.94               204,425,000  TL
-Tandirli                           L. Akdemir         12.11.93    10.06.94   14.07.94    24.08.94    16.08.94  16.08.94      23.09.94                89,910,000  TL
-Ekinci                             L. Akdemir         12.11.93    17.11.93   21.12.93    02.09.93    18.02.94    05.05,94    23.09.94               203,000,000  TL
-Pinarfn(                           H. Tanyeli          12.11.93    17.11.93   21.12.93    02.09.93    10.03.94    11.05.94   15.09.94               140,360,000  TL
-Erdene                             H. Hisman          12.11.93    17.11.93   21.12.93    02.09.93   18.02.94    03.05.94     03.10.94               156,298,000  TL
-Boazlt                             ,ahinler Ltd.      12.11.93    17.11.93   22.12.93    02.09.93    23.12.93    03.05.94   25.09.94               236,425,000  TL
-Yaytakent                          C. Yavuz           12.11.93    17.11.93   22.12.93    02.09.93    18.02.94    03.05.94    15.09.94               210,270,000  TL
-,alti                              S. Yilmaz           12.11.93    17.11.93   22.12.93    02.09.93    01.03.94    03.05.94   03.09.94               275,220,000  TL
-Atma                               D. Egemen          12.11.93    10.06.94   14.07.94    24.08.94   04.08.94    08.08.94     08.11.94               445,500,000  TL
-Kutluova Orb.                      Z. Sezgin          12.11.93    17.11.93   22.12.93    02.09.93   01.03.94    25.05.94     23.09.94               325,375,000  TL
-SOrek                              A. Erdogan         12.11.93    17.11.93   22.12.93    02.09.93   18.12.93    02.05.94     12.09.94               102,960,000  TL
-Ocak                               Ozkir Ltd.         12.11.93    17.11.93   23.12.93    02.09.93    15.02.94    05.05.94    20.06.95               545,232,000  TL
-Yk. Yidiz6ren                      E. Altun           12.11,93    17.11.93   23.12.93    02.09.93    22.0394    16.05.94     25.11.94               307,720,000  TL
-Beskaya                            0. Dumanlar        12.11.93    17.11.93   23.12.93    02.09.93   22.03.94    05.05.94     22.09.94               274,120,000  TL
-Yamanlar                           C. Akdemir         12.11.93    17.11.93   23,12.93    02.09.93   08.02.94    05.05.94     14.09.94               160,890,000  TL
-DerebOk                            Y. Yavuz           12.11.93    17.11.93   23.12.93    02.09.93    18.02.94    05.05.94    15.09.94               155,400,000  TL
Road Works
-Kureyli-Sankaya 1. KoprO inS.     0. Han             20.04.93    21.06.95   21.07.95    04.08.95  08.08.95  08.08.95        07.06.96               576,423,000  TL
-Kureyli-Sankaya 2. KoprOi ins.    0. Han             20.04.93    30.07.93   18.08.93    02.09.93    Dec.93    21.09.93      05.12.94               246,250,000  TL
-Goyne-Balla*i-Esenyurt             N. K. Korkmaz      20.04.93    30.07.93   18.08.93    02.09.93    Dec. 93    24.09.93     15.09.94               432,450,000  TL
-Ekecik-(,amhm0lk-Kamberaga         E. Altun           20.04.93    30.07.93   18.08.93    02.09.93    Dec. 93    15.09.93     22.11.94               299,700,000  TL
-Ollukbeli-Bogazli-Cennelp.-Karah   S. DemirOren       20.04.93   18.04.94    18.05.94    24.08.94    09.06.94    10.06.94    13.10.94               469,496,700  TL
-Oulveren-Babudak                 S. Maih            20.04.93   18.04.94    18.05.94    24.08.94    09.06.94    10.06.94    13.10.94               789,941,000  TL
-Dikmen-ULur- Sanipina        _     M A!as             20.04.93   18.04.94    18.05.94    24.08.94    20.06.94    30.06.94    25.11.94
Sub - Total  I______ _                                     I                                 I _                       20,750,408,250  IL            909.093.81



Category 1: Civil Works                                                 ERZiNCAN PROJECT
Clearance     Call               Clearance   Contract
Description                Contractor       ot Bid.      for       Bid       of Eval.   Signature    Comm.         Date of            Contract                     Cost
Doc. by      Bid     Opening    Rep. by      Date        Date      Final Acceptance        Amount         Curr.         USS
WB                               WB
- BUILDING DEUOL & DES. REM.
- DSI & MOA                           Ret. Payment                                        30.10.92                                1992                7,631,983,000  TL
28.12.92
Erzincan Governor                  various small contr   20.09.93
- LOCAL PROCEDURE
- Erz. Merk. 1.,3.,4.,5.,6.,8. Grup  Kay Hiz. il hd.    20.09.93    02.12.93   11.01.94              11.01.94    02.04.94       15.07.94              2,170,000,000
- Erz. Merk. 2. Grup                 S. DemirdOven      20.09.93    02.12.93   10,12.93              24.12.93    24.12.93       28.12.93               600,000,000
-Kemah Lisesi 7. Grup                ilke Tur           20.09.93    02.12.93   10.12.93              20.12.93    20.12.93       24.01.94               592,000,000
- Erz. Merk. 10. Grup                S. Erdogan         20.09.93    02.12.93   10.12.93              28.12.93    28.12.93       07.02.94               650.000.000
- Erz. Mark. 11. Grup                Aydiner in.       20.09.93    02.12.93   10.12.93              25.12.93    25.12.93       03.01.94               560,000,000
- Erz. Mark. 6. Grup                 Eta in,           20.09.93    02.12.93   10.12.93              20.12.93    20.12.93       25.12.93               600,000,000
- Erz. Merk. Koy. I. Grup            B. Bulut           16.05.94    29.09.94   30.09.94              07.10.94    12.10.94       01.11.94               440,000,000
- Erz. Merk. Koy. II. Grup           S. Demirdoven      16.05.94    29.09.94   30.09.94              06.10.94    13.10.94       31.10.94               645,000,000
Erz. Merk. K Oy 1 1 Grup              _ _0 . S.Erdo ~an  16.05.94    29.09.94   30.09.94           06.10.94    13M10.94    _   27.10.94               480 0000 0
Sub - Total                                ___ __            _    _                                                      14,368,983,000               1,144,160.99
- SAR FA TORY                         Rec. P ent  .                                        15.02.94                              23.02.94             11_385,783,892  TL  _633 75.8
Sub - Total                             1_____  _11,386,7S3,892  TL                                                                                    633,775.89
SIAK .... . ........ .......__.. .. . ....          15. 11.94 S13. 2.94  27.12.94         05.04.96             4     _                           49
* TE  Sub - Total.49,340176,375TL                                                                                                                     1,458.9.6
Sub - Total                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~49,340,176,375  TL  1,451,849.61



Catogory 2: Goods                                                                ERZINCAN PROJECT
_______  ______                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1/6
Clearance    Call             Clearance   Contract
Description                         Supplier             of Bid.     for       Bid     of Eval.   Signature    Date of        Contract                   Cost
Doc. by     Bid    Opening   Rep. by       Date     Completion       Amount        Cun.         USS
WB                            WB                                 .    ..           _
- PROCUREMENT OF ANIMALS                Local shopping from
. . __   ............. __-  various supplers                                                             ___   1210.93        31.01_93    17.132.353.370.-  TL      2a 2.76
Sub -Total                                                   ____      _ _ _ _     _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _2.122.01 6.76
ERZINCAN MUNICIPALITY (G-31
* 1Dump Truck + 3 Comp. Truck        BMC San. ve Tic. A..           03.05.93   10.05.93  12.07.93   01.09.93    23.09.93   18.11.93    12.436.473.000.-  TL
* 1 Fork Lift                         ITOCHU Corporation              03.05.93    10.05.93  12.07.93   01.09.93    15.10.93  29.08.94           5,229,000   JY
13,264.584   TL
*2 Loaders                             FIAT-HITACHI.Const. Eqp.       03.05.93    10.05.93  12.07.93   01.09.93    15.10.93  16.05.94         276.700,000   IL
51,691,960   TI
*2 Excavator, 1 Corpactor
1 Bulidozer, 1 Grader &               ,CUKUROVA ITHALAT
1 Roler                              ve IHRACAT TA.$.                03.05.93    10.05.93  12.07.93   01.09.93    12.10.93  20.07.95           694,000  USD
169,200,000   TL
* 10 Pick-Up                          TOYOTASA Ot. San. Tic.          03.05.93   10.05.93  12.07.93   01.09.93    02.11.93   23.06.94            129,420  USD
A.@. & MATSUI & Co. Lid.                                                                                56,450,000   TL
*Sewerage Truck                       GUNERi                          03.05.93   10.05.93  12.07.93   01.09.93    05.10.93  25.11.93        1.544.585,OD    TI
Equlpment for Sanitary Landfill
'Crane Mounted Truck                  YOL-BAK                         28.07.94   08.09.94  25.10.94   21.12.94    03.01.95   06.02.95             90,000  USD
15,000,000   TL
*Landfill Comp~acto*                  DYNAPAC                         28.07.94   08.09.94  25.10.94   21.12.94    06.03.95   10.10.95            170,800  USD
___________-  _____       Sub - Total                                                                              ______         _._____  __________. _  50.00.'    I41
- KOM
KOM I. Package(G-4)
* Tree-Transplanbing Machine           TEMSA in. Tic. Gid. San.      27.04.93   17.05.93  19.07.93   01.09.93    14.10.93  15.02.94             146,760  USD
ve Tur. A.~.
* 2 Truck Tractors                     Renault Vehicules Indus.       27.04.93   17.05.93  19.07.93   01.09.93    06.10.93  05.03.94            1,350,o1o   FRF
600,000   TI
8 Dua Trucks                         Mercedes-Benz TUrk A.~.      127.04.93  117.06.93  19.07.93   01.09.93  I06.10.93  115.02.94               600.000  USD
Sub.- Totali              I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __ __ _   I__ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    948,649.9j7



Category 2: Goods                                                                   ERZiNCAN PROJECT
Clearance    Call
of Bid.     for       Bid     Clearance   Contract
Description                          Supplier              Doc. by      Bid    Opening    of Eval.   Signature     Date of         Contract                    Cost
WB                           ______  Rep. by  Date  Completion        Amount        Curr.         US5
KGM II. Package (G.5)
'Semi Trailer,10 Camp Trailer          IBRAHIM ORS                      13.12.93    20.12.93  10.02.94   05.05.94  26.05.94    22.07.94               209.700  USD
15.000.000   TL
*2Sprinkler Truck,l1'ORoller,3Bridge   KATMERCILER                      13.12.93    20.12.93  10.02.94   05.05.94  26.05.94    13.08.94              709,100  USD
Maintenance Truck                                                                                                                                80.000.000   TL
*2Wheel Loader,4Forkliftl,(r.B),       CUKUROVA                         13.12.93    20.12.93  10.02.94   05.05.94  07.06.94    21.07.94               267.000   USD
2Generator(Gr.A)                                                                                                                                  360.527 TL   DM
106.000.000   TL
*1Crawler Excavator                    MITSUBISHI                       13.12.93    20.12.93  10.02.94   05.05.94  10.06.94    02.05.95            22.850.039   JY
2.300   USD
*1OHydraulic Breaker                   INDECO                          13.12.93    20.12.93  10.02.94   05.05.94  14.06.94    29.11.94               134.391  USD
40.000.000   TL
lAsphalt Plant-Gr.A                    ERG iN,.                        13.12.93    20.12.93  10.02.94   05.05.94  03.06.94    23.10.94               188.200  USD
*2Road Marking Machine                 GUBELA                           13.12.93    20.12.93  10.02.94   05.05.94  30.06.94    03.08.95               307.675   USD
'2Bridge Maintenance Platform          BARIN                            13.12.93    20.12.93  10.02.94   05.05.94  07.06.94    14.01.95         1.062.390.000   ITL
192.000.000   TL
*4Mobil Crane(Gr.A&B)                  SOCIETE PPM                      13.12.93    20.12.93  10.02.94   05.05.94  04.08.94   01.02.95            2.903.691,4   FF
30.708.000   TL
* 1Mobil Crane(Gr.C)                   MANESSMANN DEMAG                 13.12.93    20.12.93  10.02.94   05.05.94  06.07.94    17.11. 94            1.454.756   DM
10.000.000   TL
*4Forklift(Gr.A)                       TEMSA TERMOMEKANiK               13.12.93    20.12.93  10.02.94   05.05.94  02.06.94    18.07.94               82.200  USD
*Wireless Comm. Systems                SP RADIO A/S                   _13.12.93   20.12.93  10.02.94    05.05.94  30.05.94    23.05.97               978.350   USD
Sub - Total                                                                                                                                   5.353.000.59



Category 2: Goods                                                                           ERZiNCAN PROJECT
3/6
Clearance     Call                Clearance    Contract
Description                             Supplier                 of Bid.      for        Bid       of Eval.    Signature      Date of          Contract                       Cost
Doc. by       Bid     Opening    Rep. by        Date       Completion          Amount         Curr.          USS
________________________________   _______________________    ~~~~ ~~~W B                        W B
KtM liI (Package 0-7)
2 Generators                            iBiR                                18.05.95   06.06.95   25.07.95     24.08.95   18.10.95            16.11.95         35,400 TL   USD
1 Asphalt Plant                          ERG                                 18.05.95   06.06.95   25.07.95    24.08.95   02.10.95            21.12.95         179,000TL   USD
Sub-Total. ... .                                                                                                                                            2141   00
- RURAL AFFAIRS Gen. Dir. Eqp. (G-2)
* 2 Vibrating Roller                      C.UKUROVA ITHALAT                   02.04.93    18.05.93   05.07.93    01.09.93     10.12.93  27.10.94                   102,000   USD
ve iHRACAT T.A.a. Bitelli.
1 Dozer & 2 Graders                      FIAT-HITACHI Const. Eqp.            02.04.93    18.05.93   05.07.93    01.09.93    24.12.93  13.02.95                232,450,000    IL
194.000   USD
2 Wheel Loaders                          ERG ins. ve Tic. San. A.S.          02.04.93    18.05.93   05.07.93    01.09.93    06.12.93  08.04.94              1,597,500,000    TL
* Office Eqmnt. (Computer for MOA)         Ankom Ltd.                         05.01.93                           27.01.93               11.02.93                72,850,000    TL
'Surveygqipme.ntfor MOA                                                          16~11.94    16.12.94   18,01.95    15.05.95        cancelled
Sur y.  E uP .                      . ... .....ntoMA. ...... ....                                                                                    .. ........  .. ..... .. . .. .. .. ....... .. .I.......... .  16!^4......162.9 1.0.9 1.059 a le ..... .......   .... .......
Sub - Total                                                                                                                                                  495,138.23
- CIVIL DEFENCE EQUIPMENT (0-1)
3 Rescuer Vehicles                        UMTAS A../ZIEGLER                   25.01.93    18.01.93   05.03.93    10.05.93     16.06.93  27.04.94                   975,700    DM             575,261.73
Sub - Total                                                                                                                                                  575_2617
~~~~~~~~~~...         -   - -- - -       _ _ _ ,,..........   .... . ...............    ....  .... __Sb-.a -------- -----   --  ---- .  .  ........ . .. ...  . .. .  --- ......  ..   ......    ...  _- -
- CIVIL DEFENCE (G-8)
2 Deontm. Vehicles Lot I & 2               KARCHER                          18.03.96     24.05.96   23.07.96     12.09.96     12.11.96  22.12.1997             2,356,254.29 DM                456,255.05
2 Rescue Vehicles Lot 3                    ZIEGLER                          18.03.96     24.05.96   23.07.96     12.09.96     14.11.96  03.10.1997                 787,800 DM               1,264,370.09
Sub - Total                                                                                                                                                  1       ._   1 2  ..
- 6FFICE EQUIPMENT FOR GDDA                  Computer Sys. Bilsen A.6.           02.0493                1604.s93                           07.05.93                67,t74,462    TL
Facsimile Karer A.a.                                                                         07.05.93                 7,690,000    TL
Te. - Orta Anadotu A.S.                                                                      1  1.05.93               4.440,00C    TL
Sub - Total_T                                                                                                                                                  27,228.401



Category 2: Goods                                                                                      ERZiNCAN PROJECT
.   .                                             ________________________-___                                                                           4/6
Clearance      Call               Clearance    Contract
Description                              Supplier                of Bid.       for       Bid       of Eval.    Signature      Date of          Contract                      Cost
Doc. by       Bid     opening    Rep. by        Date       Completion          Amount         Curr.          USS
w e                               WB__                                      _  _  _  _ _   _ _  _    __  _ _  _   _ _
* EQUIPMENT FOR GDC
GDC, I. Package (GPM-1)
Lot 1,2,3 and 4                            SIEMENS NIXDORF                     26.08.94    09.09.94   10.11.94    02.02.95     08.03.95     Terminated              245,000   USD
(Pers. hle, Accounts/ Invst. Monitoring &
Evi. System /Prog.Follow-Up Sotware/Doc.Follow Up
* Lot 12 (Hardware                                                              26.08.94    09.09.94   10.11.94    02.02.95     08.03.95      16.08.96              1,906,054   USD
Lot 5 (AII purpose Design& Draft.)         KENT BILGiSAYAR                     26.08.94    09.09.94   10.11.94    02.02.95     28.03.95      16.11.95               218.020   CFF
*Lot 6 (Architect Design & Drafting )                                           26.08.94    09.09.94   10.11.94   No res. bid.
Lot 7 (SIrcI. Analysis Design & Drafting)   ,ANLI BABALIOGLU and               26.08.94    09.09.94   10.11.94    02.02.95     10.03.95      16.11.95           684,450,000    TL
GALAKSI Miih.San. ve Tic. A.a.
* Lot 8 (Survey Modelling & Mapping)        AK M(thendislik                     26.08.94    09.09.94   10.11.94    02.02.95     08.03.95      16.11.96                46,200   USD
1Lot9 (Cost Est. & Reports Organization)    MIKROPROSESoR Bilg. Prog.           26.08.94    09.09.94   10.11.94    02.02.95     17.03.95      16.11.95                     0    TL
MGh. MWV. Ltd.
IN-PRO ins. ve Bilgisayar                                                                                                     0    TL
Yazilim Org. Ltd.
*Lot 10 (Raster-Vecior Conv. Syst.)                                             26.08.94    09.09.94   10.11.94     No bid
* Lot 11 (Heating, vent. & gas design)      TELEM Telekom El San ve Tic.Ltd     26.08.94    09.09.94   10.11.94    02.02.95     07.03.95      16.11.95                14,375   USD
GDC -II. Package (GPM-2)
* Architect Design 2 Drafting              Local shopping                      04.05.95    05.05.95   01.06.95   Cancelled
Rai Vco            .                                                          04,05.95    05.05.95   01.06.95    18.07.95     12095         1.2.53,0000-T
*....r. CnvS t. . .....   ~   _ t   ........ .... ......... ..............."" . .... .........                    .. 0  59 50.95e e.s1 .0.5.... |.2099 ....  2 1   .12 .9 5  S 3 ,r,90T  ... ...... .
Sub - Total _________  |___   _____                                              ____    ___                                                               2.314,217.67
- HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT
Medical Equipment (GHF-1)
* X-ray,CT, Ultrasound - Lot l             SIEMENS (SIMKOA.,.)                 26.06.94    11.07.94   19.12.94    30.03.95     15.06.95      08.08.96             3,805,555   DM
'Sterilization - Lot 2                     BKB A.a.                            26.04.94    11.07.94   19.12.94    30.03.95     15.05.95     terminated              511,175   USD



Category 2: Goods                                                                           ERZiNCAN PROJECT
________                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~516
Clearance      Call               Clearance   Contract
Description                             Supplier                 of Bid.      for        Bid       of Eval.    Signature      Date of          Contract                      Cost
Doc. by       Bid     Opening    Rep. by        Date       Completion          Amount         Cuff.          USS
________________________________                              ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WB             W B
OTs, Monitoring-Lab Eqp.&Glassware.
Morluary and Patho Lab; Gon Med Eqp
Lot 3,4,5.f                               SIMED Int. B.V                      24.06.94    11.07.94   19.12.94    30.03.95    07.06.95  09.08.96              11,626,900.94   NLG
Surgical Inst & Diag. Stes &              IMPREG ILO S.p.A.                   24.06.94    11.07.94   19.12.94    30.03.95     29.05.95  04.12.96             4,080,860,822    IL
Ward Eqp. - Lot7
HOSP  TA   L--FURNiT-   R-E-(OH-F 2)......................  .b.Totai..........
Lot 1 (Beds and Accessories)               CATIC - (TMT A.,.)                 17.01.95    30.01.95 03.04.95      12.06.95     13.09.95  terminated              300,000.44   USD
* Lot 2 (Electric Equipment)                EMN Ltd. SIi.                       17.01.95    30.01.95   03.04.95    12.06.95    05.09.95  12.07.96                   161,831   USD
' Lot 3&6 (Cafe Equiprnent and              IHTA,S - lhlas Elekt. San.          17.01.95    30.01.95   03.04.95    12.06.95    28,07.95  23.09.96                  90,600.40   USD
Personnel Computer & Printer)               Tic. A,S.
' Lot 4 (Tables, Desks, etc)                 Aydinel Alintaf,                   17.01.95    30.01.95   03.04.95    12.06.95    07.09.95  12.07.96                   957,443   USD
1,800,000,000    TL
Lot 5 (Sinks and Workstables)              Cahit Oztidan                      17.01.95    30.01.95   03.04.95    12.06.95     17.08.95  12.07.96                   5541500   USD
.    ... .     ..                                                                                     ......  .......... ..,,,,..                              ... ~S':'To'  .    ...... ...............   ......... .. ..........   . .....,,,   ...... .. .....
-SCHOOL EOUIPMENT(GSE-1)                                                                                                                                                                               .........
'Furniture(desks,chaira,etc.)-Lotl&         aAN HALI Tic. ve San. A.!,.         25,08.94   01.09.94   03.11.94   27.12.94     20.01 .95    04.09.95            1,501,801,000 USD
Metal Works Equip. Lot 7                                                                                                                                        950,000,000 TL
'Furniture(cabinets,tabtes,etc.)-Lot2       AYDINEL ALTINTA,                    25.08.94   01.09.94   03.11.94   27.12.94     01.02.95    09.04.96                 1,306,201 USD
4,700,000,000 TL
'Office Equipment-Lot3                                                          25.08.94   01.09.94   03.11.94   No bid
'Electronic Equipment-Lot4                  PERSPEKTIF lietisim Dan.            25.08.94   01.09.94   03.11.94   27.12.94     07.02.95    21.06.95                   566,722 USD
Hizmet ve Tic. Ltd. Sti.                                                                                            290,000,000 TL
'Dormitory Equipment-LoIS                   BILPA Bilkent Egitim Ara,           25.08.94   01.09.94   03.11.94   27.12.94     02.02.95    17.04.95                299.132,12 USD
aereg ve Hizmet Paz. San.                                                                                           550,000,000 TL
ve Tic. A.a.
'Tailoring/Carpetinq Equip. -Lot6                                               25.08.94   01.09.94   03.11.94   No res. bid   I



Category 2: Goods                                                                        ERZiNCAN PROJECT
6_6
Clearance     Call               Clearance   Contract
Description                            Supplier               of Bid.       for       Bid      of Eval.    Signature      Date of         Contract                     Cost
Doc. by      Bid     Opening    Rep. by        Date      Completion         Amount         Curr.         USS
WB                               we
*Carpantary Works Equip. -Lot8            AKKERMANS Industrial Eng.          25.08.94   01.09.94   03.11.94   27.12.94   08.02.95    02.08.95                  213,809 NDL
SCHOOL EQUIPMENT (OSE-2)
Tailoring I Carpeting Equip.-Lot 6 &              PETTEKS A.,.             15.02.96    08.03.96 09.05.96     30.06.96   09.09.96    25.02.97                 547,796 USD
Office Equipment - Lot 3
L o t     . ..S.b*.T..t.i ._.. .   .   .=..... ....... -                                             ...................  ................           .  ......  .......... .    . .   . .. ....................................
Sub -Total   __ _ _ _ _ _ _           _    _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _                                                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _4,493,821.80
- SEISMIC EQUIPMENT ITTS-1)
Strong Motion Rec. Network Lot 1                      GEOSYS                 20.11.95   09.02.96   09.04.96   14.06.96   01.10.96    01.07.97                  92,400 SFR
Weak Motion Obs. Network Lot 2                      KINEMETRIKS              20.11.95   09.02.96   09.04.96   14.06.96   31 .07.96    02.12.96    -          80,658.75 USD1                    ...
Sub - Total                                                                                                                                             16___   __ _0 __.2_ ._._._47,60.7
TUBITAK - GPS PROJECT
'OPS Receivers for continous OPS            NUR Construction&lndustrial
Network, Installation Receivers and        Co.Inc.                            17.04.98   07.05.98   01.07.98  09.09.98    22.10.98              7/9/99          284.000 USD              279,942.86
accessories for mobile measurements
and soler panels Lot 1
'Unix based computers and facilities       GANTEK Computer
Lot2                                       Consultancy Services Trade
Inc.                              17.04.98   07.05.98   01.07.98  09.09.98    23.10.98            3/17199           232.709 USD              230,333.00
*Equipment and Tools for various           NUR Construction and Indusrial
Seismological Studies Lot 5                Co.Inc.                            17.04.98   07.05.98   01.07.98  09.09.98    22.10.98             6/2/99           117.000 USD              109.670.72
'Seismological Sensors Lot 6               MARK Products                      17.04.98   07.05.98   01.07.98  09.09.98    23.10.98             6/2/99            94.202 USD               85.998.50
Broadband Sensor Lot 7                     GURALP System Ltd.                 17.04.98   07.05.98   01.07.98  09.09.98    23.10.98      07.10.1999              126.601 GBP              198,032.87
'Seismological recorders and                REFRACTION Techhnology            17,04.98   07.05.98   01.07.98  09.09.98    23..10.98            7/9/99           374.493 USD              368,847.80
facilities Lot 8                            Inc.
'Software for GIS Lot9                      ISLEM GIS                         17.04.98   07.05.98   01.07.98   09.09.98   29.10.98            12/3/98            16.487 USD               16.487.00
Telecomunication Infrastructrure Lot 10     MEGATEK liebisim Sislemleri Ltd   17.04.98   07.05.98   01.07.98  09.09.98    08.10.98             2/8/99           124,480 USD              123,464.00
TOBITAK II PACKAGE
*Personal Computers with environmental     BOGAZICI
Units Lot 3                                Bilgisayar TIC SAN A S (NS)                   16.09.98   08.10.98   23.10.98   30.11.98             2/8/99            90.812 USD               90.716.80
'Field vehicles Lot 4                      NISSAN Otomotive A.  (NS)                     16.09.98   08.10.98   23.10.98   24.11.98         20.12.1998            83.211 DM                48.308.29
Some consumables, small equipment          MEGATEK llettiim Sistemleri Ltd               27.10.99   15.11.99              23.11.99         20.12.1999            59,333 USD               59.333.00
and tools          _______.                 __                                                      _
Sub total                                                                                       ..                                  $                1,611,134.84



Category 3: Consultants' Services                                              ERZiNCAN PROJECT
1/2
Clearance      Call                  Clearance     Contract
Description                      Consultant           of Bid.       for         Bid        of Eval.     Signature     Compl.        Contract
Doc. by       Bid       Opening      Rep. by        Date         Date          Amount        Curr.       Cost
HOSPITALS
'Main Consultancy Services            Vamed/Prokon Consortium     11/30/92    20.11.1992   15.01.1993   03.02.1993    18.02.1993   November 98       1,885,200   DM
9.500.000.000   TL
Supplementary Cont.                                             02.03.1995    08.03.1995                   4.840.000.000   TL       1,968,984.42
Supplementary Cont.ll                                           27.02.1996    20.05.1996                     281.990,40   DM
916.378.976   TL
'Soil I nvestigation                  TOKER Koll.Sti.                                                  05.05.1993    06.05.1993   15.06.1993       351.190.000   TL          21,150.86
'Copy and Modification Rights of      Y.Mimarlik B0rosu                                                11.03.1993    18.03.1993    18.03.1994      519.837.789   TL          19,059.21
Original Hospital Designer             (yalin ileri)
Sub-Total                                                                                                                                    2,009,194.49
HOUSING
'Main Consultancy Services            Seya*/Timat Consortium     30.11.1992   25.11.1993   15.01.1993    15.02.1993    16.02.1993   terminated   18.584.651.250   TL
800.750  USD
Supplementary Cont.                                             02.03.1995    14.03.1995    30.06.1995    17.274.689.212   TL
172,000  USD       2.259.112,47
'Soil Investigation                   JMS                                     19.03.1993   29.03.1993   05.05.1993    18.05.1993   01.07.1993      595,800,000   TL
250,000,000   TL          67.736,66
'Sampling and Tests                   ITU                                                              24.05.1993                16.09.1993         51,100,000   TL
60,000,000   TL           9,123.80
'Subdivision Plan Preparation and     SAY ins.MOh.San.ve         02.04.1993   11.05.1993   26.05.1993   26.05.1993    1 1.06.1993    15.07.1993    465,985,944   TL          18.740,57
its application                       Tic.Ltd.;ti,
Sub-Total                                         =                                                                     __ 2,354,713.50
-SHOPS & BUSINESSES
'Main Consultancy Services            Yalrin Teknik/Louis Berger  30.11.1992   11.27.1993   18.01.1993    28.01.1993    16.02.1993  22.12.1997   18.401.905.908   TL
1.231.623  USD
Supplementary Cont.                                                                                        7.924.000.000   TL       2.019.057,83
'Soil Investigation                   Spektra Jeotek                                                                                               309.750.000   TL          26,322.58
'Sampling and Tests
Sub-Totall  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _   _ _ _  __ _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _     _ _  _ _  _                2,045,380.411



Category 3: Consultants' Services                                            ERZiNCAN PROJECT
212
Clearance     Call                  Clearance     Contract
Description                     Consultant          of Bid.       for        Bid        of Eval.    Signature     compl.        Contract
Doc. by      Bid       Opening      Rep. by       Date         Date         Amount        Curr.      Cost
WB                                  WB .s_
-MUN.INFRASRUCTURE
& PUBLIC BUILDINGS
*Main Consullancy Services           COWlconsultrTEMAT          11/30/92    27.11.1992   19.01.1993   15.02.1993    17.02.1993   11.12.1997  23.207.000.000   TL
Supplementary Cont.                                           08.03.1995    20.03.1995   30.11.1995        8.884.000  DKK
9.207.805.579   TL
2.157.000  DKK      3,193,254.41
Supplementary Contl.I                                         01.03.1996    07.03.1996                 1.869.000.000   TL
786.000  DKK
'Soil Investigation                  TOKER Koll. ,ti.                                              07.05.1993    27.04.1993   01.06.1993      336,670,000   TL
89.335.000   TL         36,942.00
'Sampling & Tests                    DELSAN/KGM/illerbank                                          07.05.1993                14.04.1993        15.773.000   TL            954.00
6.930.000   TL           579.00
'Leak Detection                      SEBA/BELDA                25.03.1994   31.03.1994   17.05.1994   18.06.1994  7/21/94    16.06.1995      2.872.111.435   TL        451,081.25
4.104.618,28   AS
__________________________  ________  ..   .___           _ _  ______                                                 120.793  AS
Sub-Total                                                          _                                        _                           3,682,810.66
-BARNS & STORAGE BARNS
'Design                              TUMA,                                 05.10.1992  08.10.1992   09.10.1992    09.10.1992   12.10.1992       9.000.000   TL           1,084.03
'Supervision & Tech.Supp.            PROKON                     10/16/92    16.10.1992  20.10.1992   23.10.1992    24.10.1992   15.06.1994        778.018  USD
21.982  USD        783.699,82
TUSTA;                     10116/92    16.10.1992  20.10.1992   23.10.1992    24.10.1992   15.06.1994       745.353  USD
104.647  USD        751.125,92
Sub-Total _1._           _                                                                       __.__                                  i,535,909.77
PROJECTION MNG. AUTOMATION             MEU                         9/22/93    24.09.1993  25.10.1993   21.12.1993              1.10.1998       3.820.000.000   TL        125.148,35
Sub-Total   ___________           __  _ _ __125.148,35
AMENDMENT OF LAW 3194                  METU                        2/25/97    10.04.1997   13.06.1997   30.06.1997    16.10.1997  30.09.1998        279.500  USD         280,024.52
Sub-Total                                                                                                                             __280,024.52
CAMPAIGN FOR TRAINING          Sub_Tota__ .            _-_    11/19/97    19.12.1997   11.02.1998   19.03.1998    23.06.1998  23.03.1999           1l359,550  USD        910,398.20
Sub-Total  _______  ________                                                                           91~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0,398.20
TUBITAK - Cont.Recording GPS Netw.     MIT             ___ 1704.1997_                                _ __          21.07.1998  June 1999            130.000  USD         226,449.43
Sub-Total _ _     _      _ _22s,4493 J



AMOUNTS
ERZINCAN PROJECT                       DISBURSED
CATG.                   PARTICULARS                            (U.S.$)
I              ~~~~CIVIL                            123,610,931.77
Public Buildings                                         6,005,333.03
Contract - I                                              3,211,874.07
Contract - II                                             2,793,458.96
Hsltis                                               20,498,449.74
SSK Hospitals                                             6,073,266.84
.M     litar\k os pt  --,-.--.--. .- ..-------.7,
State Hospital                                            7,527,717.571
44,53,176.29
Contract - I                                             13.852,1i92.74
Contract - 1I                                            12,470,460.99
Contract - III                                           17,830,522.56
Bp.usinesses                                       22,522,627.86
Contract - II                                             5,859,080.26
Contract - III                                            9,346,238.71
Contract - IV                                             7,317,306.89
Mqn.!P!P~~~~~~ll Infrastructure~~~~~~~~     14,61~9,196.94
Treatment Pland & Sanitary Lnfl728054
Municipality InfrastructurE____5,731,924.65
Traffic Lights                                               71,118.66
E1lectricjt~. 1 - .     --..                              1,451,849.61
Tcbb Railway Crossing                                         7,198.49
KGM Supervision                                               3,143.06
PTT Underground System                                       10,302.42
Municipality Water    rr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 42,207.57
Stormwater Discharge                                         3,407.02
Rural Developmnt                                         15,812,147.91
Cattle & Storage Barns                                   13,091,826.67
Rural Roads& lrriqatior     -909,093.81
Deimolition -& Debris Remova                              1,1i44,1i 60.99
Sug9ar Factory Repair                                      633,775.89
Nursi'ng HomeMantnac                                         18,290.55
______   thers (Tubitak GPS)                                       15,000.00
2                   GOODS                                 36,953,935.20
Procurement of Animals                                    2,122,016.76
Equipment for the Municipalit~                            2,298,942.14
Equip7men for KGM                                         6,515,750.56
Equipment for Rural Affairs                                495,138.23
E~quipmfent for Civil DefencE                             2,285,886.87
Equipment for Hospitals                                  12,882,207.80
Fumtues orHospitals     .~1,774,929A41
School Equipments                         ~~~~~~~4,493,821.80
GDC Automation                                            2,314,217.67
Equipment for Disaster Aff airs&Tubitak G3PS            . 1,771,023.96
3                CONSULTING                               16,471,434.79
Public Buil dinigsaWn-d Muinicip al-6 nfrastr-L6uctur     3,5,5.8
Hoptals2,009,194.49
Housing                                                   2,354,713.50
Shp & Businesses                                          2,045,380.41
Cattle & Storage Barns                                    1,535,909.77
PEqect_Managempnent -  r~of Setiemeni.125,148.35
Training & Studies                                         307,583.22
Mi iistry of Agricultu........ 156179.36
PCU & EMU                                                 2,683,204.76
U. N.D. P.                                                 381,600.68
Maps for Disaster Affairs&Tubitak supplie                  254,181.62
Leak Detection & Equipments                                451,081.25
______Campaign For Public Awareness                              910,398.20
_____             TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS (1+2+3)                 177,036,301.761






ANNEX B






SENIRKENT PROJECT
Project Components     Allocation of the Loan   Contract Amount   Cur.  Actual Disbursement   Actual Disbursement
(US $)                                      (DM)            Equivalent  ($)
Civil Works Infrastructure
a) Municipality (ARSAN)                 8,500,000   1,129,396,531,500 TL          9,810,369.03         5,373,407.21
b) Electrical Distribution               500,000      83,803,324,063 TL            760,152.49           426,478.25
c) Telecommunication                     500,000
Sub-Total          9,500,000   1,213,199,855,563 TL         10,570,521.52         5,799,885.46
Hazard Miligation Program
d) Flood&Erosion Control (DSI)         12,000,000    916,985,202,000 TL          14,509,826.82         8,397,247.70
e) Forestation                          1,400,000          1,400,000  $           2,451,415.38         1,395,120.36
Sub-Total         13,400,000                                16,961,242.20         9,792,368.06
GOODS                                    600,000         -                          26,748.80            17,896.55
CONSULTANCY PROJECT
ADMINISTRATION
f) Hazard Mitigation Consultancy         500,000
g) Infrastructrure Consultancy          1,620,000           331,250  $             503,484.06           291,324.65
h) Project Administration               1,280,000        -                         498,952.66           258,077.77
Sub-Total          3,400,000                                 1,002,436.72          549,402.42
CONTINGENCIES                           3,100,000                        _
GRAND TOTAL           30,000,000                                28,560,949.24         16,159,552.49



Category 4: Civil Works                                               SENIRKENT PROJECT
Clearance       Call                    Clearance     Contract
Description                 Contractor        of Bid.        for          Bid        of Eval.     Signature    Comm.        Compi.           Contract                      Cost
Doc. by        Bid        Opening       Rep. by       Date         Date        Date            Amount          Curr.         USS
WB                                      WB
- Flood & Sediment Control            IMA Ltd. Sti.        27.08.96     28.08.96      10.10.96     16.10.96     12.11.96     23.10.96     7119/99          916,985,202,000   TL          8,397,247.70
Structures (WSF-1)
- Municipal Infrastructure Works       ARSAN Ltd.          03.04.97      13.06.97     28.07.97     14.08.97      04.09.97    25.08.97     10/5199         1,129,396,531,500   TL          5,373,407.21
Electrical Distribution Network       H.DALKIRAN          12.05.94      06.06.97     06.08.97     28.10.97      12.11.97    08.12.97     2/4/99            83,803,324,063                 426,478.25
Afforestation
- GDA                               Ret. Payment        27.03.96                                16.10.96                             31.01.2000         (est.) 1.400.000.-   $         1,395,120.36
Sub - Total                        1..592,253.62
Category 5: Goods
Procurement of Office Equipmentfor DS!  Various            08.04.96                                              July 96                 August 96          Various                          17,896.55
Sub - Total                                                                                               _       _17,896.55
Category 6: Consultants' Services
- MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE             Detcan/Su Yapi       3/22/96      3 25/96       5/15196      7/16/96       9/4/96                  6/30/00          331,250        USD              291,324.65
'Main Consultancy Services                    J.V.                                                                                                        _3_5_S_______6__
Sub - Total_____                                                                                                              331,250         USD             291,324.65



ANNEX C






Category 9: Consultants' Services                                                 S0TCOLER PROJECT
Clearance       Call                     Clearance      Contract
Description                       Consultant           of Bid.         for           Bid         of Eval.     Signature     Compl.           Contract
Doc. by        Bid         Opening       Rep. by        Date          Date            Amount          Curr.          Cost
WB                                       WB                                                                        USS
- MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE                 Delcan/Su Yapi J.V.
and food Control Works                     suplementary Cont.1          12/3/97        N/A           N/A           N/A         12/8/97     30.09.2000               282,260   USD
(for supplementary con 1&2)        362,689.51
-Flood And Sediment control works          Supplementary cont.2         12/3/97        N/A           N/A           N/A          5/4/98     30.09.2000                85,000   USD
Hospital Retrofitting Project              Laing/Williams              12/18/97     19.12.1997    19.02.1998      5/7/98       7/14/98       9/30/00               1445,991   GBP            2,323,319.13
Sub-Total                   _        2,686,008.64
Category 7: Civil Works                                                                                                                                Sub-Total_2_686_008_64
- MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE                      M.RIZA AKKAYA           5/20/98     25.05.1998    09.07.1998     7/30/98       8/17/98     28.06.2000  475.892.371.630         TL            1,330,691.50
and tood Control Works
- Electrical Distribution Network          ErsOz Ener1i A.S.            6/18/98     05.08.1998    21.09.1998    06 01 1999     1/27/99    12/15/99            38,836,309,937    TL             113.493,78
Sub-Total                            1,444,185.28
Category 8: Goods                                                                 _
-Backhoe Excavator-Loader                  MASTA A. .                   1/5/99        1/12/99       2/8/99         N/A          3/4/99       4/9/99           16,575,000,000    TL              44.637.49
-Dump-Truck                                YOL-BAKA. .                  1/5/99        1/15/99      3/22/99         N/A          4/9/99          4/26/99               70,000   USD              70.000.00



