Page  1
CONFORMED  
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF054199 MLI 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
 
(Gourma Biodiversity Conservation Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated December 14, 2004 
 
Page  2
-2-
CONFORMED  
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF054199 MLI 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 14, 2004, between the REPUBLIC OF MALI (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment 
Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members 
of the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Recipient a letter, 
 
dated June 22, 2004, transmitting the Recipient’s biodiversity strategy, describing, 
inter alia
,
a
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to support the Recipient’s efforts in: (i) 
implementing its environmental and biodiversity strategies in Gourma, a priority site in the 
Recipient’s territory, (ii) integrating said strategies into the Recipient’s decentralization 
reform activities (the Program), and (iii) declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program; 
(B) 
the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the global 
environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic 
development; 
(C) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in place 
on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive Directors of 
the Bank which, 
inter alia
,
established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the Bank as trustee 
of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2);  
(D) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), which forms part of the 
Program, has requested assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for the Project, 
and said request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument 
for the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Resolution 94-2;  
Page  3
-
2-
(E) 
the Recipient intends to obtain from various Donors (as hereinafter defined) 
grants and loans to assist in the financing of the Program; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, to extend 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to 
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank for Single Currency Loans, dated May 30, 1995 
(as amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in 
 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (14), (15), (16), (18), and 
(21), 2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Section 4.01 and  4.06; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02, (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i), and (p), 6.03, 6.04 and 
6.06; 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
(ix) 
 Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;  
Page  4
-
3-
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01  (c),  12.03, and 12.04 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (6), and 6.02 (f) and 5.01 (a) thereof, means the 
Bank acting as an implementing agency of the GEF, except that in 
Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank acting in 
its own capacity; 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
(iii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(iv) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(v) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
(vi) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
“Except as otherwise provided in the Development Grant 
Agreement, the proceeds of the Grant may be withdrawn to pay for 
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Recipient or the Guarantor 
on the goods or services to be financed under the Grant, or on their 
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply.  Financing of such 
taxes is subject to the Bank policy of requiring economy and 
efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans.  To that end, if the 
Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied 
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant is excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by 
notice to the Recipient, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth 
or referred to in respect of such item in the Grant Agreement as 
required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.”; and 
Page  5
-
4-
(vii) 
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (o) in Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions, as follows: “an extraordinary situation 
shall have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF.”  
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms 
have the following meanings:  
(a) “AIG” 
means 
Association Intercommunale du Gourma
,
an Inter-Commune 
association to be established under 
loi 01-076 
of
the laws of the Recipient, dated March 1959, 
regulating associations, pursuant to paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
(b) 
“Beneficiary” means a legal entity, comprising either a public-law territorial 
administration unit, such as 
a
Collectivité Locale 
or
Commune,
 a private-law NGO or 
Association, or a private individual, as the case may be, for the benefit of which a Subproject 
or other Project activities are being carried out; 
(c) 
“CFAF” means 
Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine
,
the currency 
of the Recipient; 
(d) 
“CIO” means the 
Comité Intercommunal d'Orientation
 referred to in 
paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and consisting of a group of representatives of 
the Project Area, Communes, the DRCN and governors of the 
Gao, Mopti and Timbuktu 
regions; 
(e) 
 “CMO” means the 
Cellule de Mise en Oeuvre 
referred to in paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, a team entrusted with the implementation of Parts A, B, C and 
D
of the Project; 
(f) 
 “Commune” means an administrative entity or commune in the territory of 
the Recipient established and operating under 
loi 96-059
 of the laws of the Recipient, dated 
November 4, 1996; 
(g) “
Conseils Communaux
”
or “CC” means Commune councils, established and 
operating under 
loi 95-034
 of the laws of the Recipient, dated April 12, 1995;  
Page  6
-
5-
(h) 
“Conservation Area” means an area of the territory of the Recipient under 
strictest environmental protection and managed by OGAC, where local resource use is either 
totally forbidden, or stringent management regulations apply; 
(i) 
“Deposit” means the initial deposit referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(j) 
“Donors” means, collectively, the national or international agencies 
contributing funds or technical assistance for the Program, and “Donor” means each and 
every such agency individually; 
(k) “DNCN” 
means 
Direction Nationale de la Protection de la Nature,
 the 
Recipient’s National Directorate for Nature Protection, established and operating pursuant to 
loi 98-056/P-RM
,
dated December 17, 1998, of the laws of the Recipient;  
 (l) 
“DRCN” means the 
Direction Régionale de la Protection de la Nature
,
the
 
Recipient’s Regional Directorate for Nature Protection of the 
Mopti
,
Timbuktu
 and 
Gao
 
Regions, established and operating pursuant to 
loi 98-056/P-RM 
dated December 17, 1998 of 
the laws of the Recipient;  
(m) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) of the table set forth 
in Part A.1 of  Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(n) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures eligible for financing out of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under this Agreement; 
(o) 
“Environmental and Social Management Plan” or “ESMP” means the 
document dated August 2002, containing the set of mitigation, enhancement, monitoring, and 
institutional measures, and attaching a framework process for reduction of potential negative 
social impact, including involuntary resettlement procedures, that have been identified in the 
environmental impact assessment to be taken during implementation of the Project to 
eliminate any adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to 
acceptable levels, or to enhance positive impacts; and such term include all annexes and 
amendments to said Plan;  
(p) “FFEM” 
means 
Fonds Français pour l’Environnement  Mondial,
 the French 
entity financing GEF activities and a Donor contributing to the Project;  
(q) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
Page  7
-
6-
(r) 
“Fiscal Year” and the symbol “FY” mean the fiscal year of the Recipient 
commencing January 1 and ending December 31 in the same year; 
(s) 
“GEF Grant” means the GEF Trust Fund Grant provided for under this 
Agreement pursuant to Section 2.01 of this Agreement; 
(t) 
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the United 
Nations; 
(u) 
“IEC” means information, education and communication; 
(v) 
“Management Plan” means a document or set of documents formulated by 
the Recipient describing social, physical and biological features of a Conservation Area, 
defining the development objective, management strategy and partnerships, and includes 
Rules and an action plan showing the infrastructure and budget of the Conservation Area as 
well as its equipment and other requirements; and such term to include all annexes and 
amendments to said Plan;  
(w)  
“ME” 
means 
Ministère de l’Environnement
,
the Recipient’s Ministry for 
Environment; 
(x) 
“NGO” means a Non-Governmental Organization, established and operating 
under the laws of the Recipient; 
(y) “ 
OGAC” 
means 
the 
Organization de Gestion des Aires de conservation 
in 
charge of the management of Conservation Areas, which is a private entity established and 
operating under 
loi 98-056/P-RM, 
dated December 17, 1998, of the laws of the Recipient, 
with membership consisting of community associations or private individuals; 
(z) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated May 12, 
2004, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as the same 
shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 to this 
Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
(aa) 
“Protocol” means any agreements entered into between the Recipient and 
Beneficiaries for the carrying out of Subprojects or other Project activities; 
(bb) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement;  
Page  8
-
7-
(cc) 
 “Project Area” means the area of activities to be carried out under the 
Project, including the communes of 
Dallah, Dangol-Bore, Debere, Djaptodji, Gandamia, 
Korarou, Mondoro, Hombori, Boni, Kerena, Douentza, Bambara-
Maoudé, Gossi, 
 
In Adiatafene, Ouinerden, Rharous,
 
N'Tillit 
and 
Tessit
;
(dd) 
“Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the manual referred to in 
Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the guideline for the implementation of the 
Project, and such term includes any schedules to the PIM and all annexes and amendments to 
said Manual;  
(ee) 
“Rules” means the rules designed with the participation of the local 
communities for management, access to and use of communal resources in the seven 
Conservation Areas, and which form part of the Management Plans;  
(ff) 
”Steering Committee” means the Steering Committee established by the 
Recipient to facilitate and coordinate the activities of the Project in accordance with 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(gg) “SCN” 
means 
Service de Conservation de la Nature
,
a
sub-regional unit of 
DRCN; 
(hh) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; 
(ii) 
“Subproject” means a specific activity under Part C of the Project, carried out 
or to be carried out by a Beneficiary and financed or proposed to be financed through a 
Subproject Grant Agreement; 
(jj)  
“Subproject Grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made, to a 
Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the GEF Grant for the financing of a Subproject; 
(kk) 
“Subproject Grant Agreement” means an agreement for a Subproject Grant 
referred to in paragraph 13 of Section 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(ll) “UGP” 
means 
Unité de Gestion du Projet
,
the Project Management Unit 
established by the Recipient and charged with the responsibility for oversight of Project 
implementation in accordance with paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(mm) 
“90-day Advance Account” means the advance account referred to in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Page  9
-
8-
ARTICLE II 
The GEF Grant 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Grant in an amount equal to 
five million five hundred thousand United States Dollars  ($5,500,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the GEF Grant may be withdrawn from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:  
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for carrying out of Parts A, B, D, E and F of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Grant, and (ii) amounts paid (or, if 
the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals made under a Subproject Grant 
in respect of the reasonable costs of goods, works and services required for Subprojects to be 
carried out under Part C of the Project, and in respect of which the withdrawal from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account is requested. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2011, or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
technical and financial practices and with due regard to ecological and environmental 
standards, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF 
Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as said provisions 
may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
Page  10
-
9-
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than  
12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
open and thereafter maintain, until completion of the Project, a Project 
Account in CFAF, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; 
(b) 
deposit into the Project Account an initial deposit (the Deposit) equivalent to 
eighty-five million CFAF (CFAF 85,000,000) representing the first six months of the 
Recipient’s contribution to the cost of the Project, and every six months thereafter, deposit 
into the Project Account, promptly as needed, such amounts as the Recipient and the Bank 
shall determine as adequate to meet the costs of the Project during successive six months 
periods immediately following the making of the Deposit; and 
(c) 
ensure that the amounts deposited into the Project Account in accordance 
with paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively for expenditures under the Project 
not otherwise financed from the proceeds of the GEF Grant or a Donor. 
Section 3.04.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:  
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the 
Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
Page  11
-
10-
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other period 
agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year 
(or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements by said auditors, in scope and detail 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.6 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for, or covering, the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are included 
in the annual audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by 
the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a single opinion by said auditors as to 
Page  12
-
11-
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section III of Schedule 4 to this Agreement the Recipient shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth actual and projected sources and uses of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the GEF Grant, and 
explains variances between the actual and projected sources and uses 
of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the previously forecast and actual implementation 
targets; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after the 
end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.  
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
(a) 
an extraordinary situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out, and 
Page  13
-
12-
(b) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:  
(A) 
the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds 
of any grant or loan made to the Recipient for the 
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, 
canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the agreement providing therefore; or 
(B) 
any such loan shall have become due and payable 
prior to the agreed maturity thereof. 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) 
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Recipient to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds 
for the Project are available to the Recipient from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:  
The Recipient has:  
(a) established 
through 
Arrêté 
the Steering Committee and UGP with rights and 
obligations satisfactory to the Bank; 
(b) 
appointed a Project Coordinator whose qualification and experience are 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
(c) 
in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, entered into contracts of employment with the following personnel of UGP: (i) 
the financial management specialist, and (ii) the accountant;  
Page  14
-
13-
(d)  installed at UGP a computerized financial management and accounting system, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of the Project; 
(e) 
in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, entered into a contract for the employment a firm of consultants to serve as 
operator of CMO; 
(f) 
paid the Deposit into the Project Account; and 
 (g)
 
in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, appointed the auditor referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement.
 
Section 6.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Recipient’s Minister responsible for finance is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Page  15
-
14-
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
 
BP 234 
 Bamako 
 
 Mali 
 
 
Fascimile: 
 
(223) 22 88 53 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development,  
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI)   
 
Page  16
-
15-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the 
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALI  
 
By /s/ Abdoulaye Diop 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By /s/ David Craig 
Authorized Representative 
Page  17
-
16-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Grant 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the GEF Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Grant to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
GEF Grant 
% of 
 
Allocated (Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
U.S.Dollars
)
to be Financed
(1)  Goods 
 
 
 
         800,000  
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 
 
65%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(2)  Works   
     700,000 
65% 
 
(3)  Consultants services 
1,900,000 
80% of local 
 and 
audits 
 
expenditures 
 
(4)  Training, studies and workshops                 500,000 
100% 
 
 
 
(5)  Subproject Grants for  
800,000 
100% of amounts 
 
Part C of the Project 
 
disbursed 
 
(6) Operating Costs 
500,000 
65% 
 
(7)   Unallocated 
300,000 
 
________
TOTAL 5,500,000 
 
=======  
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of 
any country other than that of the Recipient;  
Page  18
-
17-
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient, provided, 
however, that if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another country from the territory 
of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or 
services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and 
(c) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the incremental operating costs arising 
under the Project on account of maintenance of vehicles, fuel, equipment, office supplies, 
utilities, consumables, office rent, reasonable bank charges related to the operation of the 
Special Account, salaries of Project support staff, travel and accommodation, per diem and 
other allowances, but excluding salaries of the Recipient’s civil servants. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of payments made for expenditures: 
(a) 
prior to the date of this Agreement; and  
(b) 
under Category (5) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule 1, for any 
Grant, unless such Grant has been made in accordance with the provisions set forth in  
Section V of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the PIM, the ESMP and the respective Subproject 
Grant Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Trust Fund Grant Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) goods under contracts not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; 
(c) consultants’ services under contracts not exceeding: (i) $100,000 equivalent each for 
consulting firms, and (ii) $50,000 equivalent each for individual consultants; and 
 
(d) Operating Costs, training, studies and workshops, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
5. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank 
for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used 
or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank. 
6. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first such 
request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the 
Page  19
-
18-
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following 
the date of such request. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall open and maintain in CFAF a special deposit account in 
the name of UGP in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment; and  
(b) 
one 90-Day Advance Account in 
Mopti/Sevaré
 in the name of CMO, in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been opened, withdrawals from the GEF Grant Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part A.6 
of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for payment of 
Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Grant Account; 
or 
Page  20
-
19-
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of 
time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to 
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records 
and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures 
with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall 
have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Grant Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should 
be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Recipient of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account or out of the 90-Day Account, as the case may be, was made for an expenditure 
which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall 
so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be 
made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account or the 90-Day Account, as the case may be, will not be required to cover 
payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank 
such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account or in the 90-day Account, as the case 
may be. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the GEF Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
Page  21
-
20-
7. 
90-Day Advance Account
(a) 
The Recipient shall withdraw from the Special Account and deposit into  
the 90-Day Advance Account sufficient funds to facilitate implementation of the Project, 
provided that the Recipient shall at no time cause the amount held in the 90-Day Advance 
Account to exceed one hundred million CFAF (CFAF 100,000,000). 
 
(b) 
Payments out of the 90-Day Advance Account shall only be made for 
eligible expenditures in respect of Categories (1) to (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Any withdrawal from the 90-Day Advance Account must be justified to the 
Recipient by the same documentation and other evidence regarding eligible expenditures 
provided for under paragraph 3 of this Schedule. 
 
(d) 
If the Bank or the Recipient shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding on the 90-Day Advance Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the relevant implementing agency shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank or the Recipient, refund to the relevant Special Account such 
outstanding amount. 
Page  22
-
21-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount 
of FCFA 350,000,000 equivalent to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex, provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to FCFA 175,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts, 
which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount, as the Recipient shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals, as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank 
the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Grant minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
Page  23
-
22-
General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Grant shall follow such procedures, as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  24
-
23-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall be deposited by the Bank 
into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the GEF Grant, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred 
to in Part A.6 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such reports. 
Page  25
-
24-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in implementing environmental 
protection and biodiversity conservation activities in the Sahelian priority area of Gourma, 
through the improved sustainable management of natural resource use, improved returns for 
the local population.   
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
Part A
:
Support to the Creation and Management of Inter-Communal Management of 
Conservation Areas
1. 
Carrying out of ecological and biodiversity assessments of each of the seven 
Conservation Areas; through the provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition 
of equipment. 
2. 
Carrying out of the delineation of the seven Conservation Areas and negotiation of 
said delineation with the respective CCs and the local population concerned, through the 
provision of technical advisory services. 
3. 
Causing the establishment of OGAC for each of the seven Conservation Areas as 
well as advising them concerning legal recognition and internal organization and 
strengthening their management and technical capacity, through the provision of technical 
advisory services and the acquisition of equipment. 
4. 
Establishment of rules and management plans for each of the seven Conservation 
Areas and their adoption by the respective authorities, through the provision of technical 
advisory services. 
5. 
Carrying out of activities pursuant to said management plans, such as: (i) surveillance 
activities; (ii) fire and habitat management; (iii) ecological monitoring surveys; 
(iv) construction of trails; (v) construction of watch towers; (vi) construction of delineation 
and border markers and sign posts; and (vii) construction of management and tourism 
infrastructure buildings and equipment; through the provision of technical advisory services, 
the acquisition of equipment and the carrying out of works. 
Page  26
-
25-
Part B
:
Support to Community-based Biodiversity related Initiatives
1. 
Carrying out of participatory diagnostic studies of inter-commune interactions in the 
area of environmental protection, biodiversity conservation and community based natural 
resource management practices, through the provision of technical advisory services. 
2. 
Supporting CCs in addressing issues of biodiversity conservation and rangeland 
management and their integration into Commune development plans, through the provision 
of technical advisory services. 
3. 
Supporting biodiversity related micro-projects or micro-services referred to in Part C 
of this Schedule 2, registered in Commune development plans, through: (i) the provision of 
technical advisory services; (ii) the acquisition of equipment; (iii) the provision of funding. 
4. 
Carrying out of workshops fostering information exchanges on improved community 
based natural resource management practices, through the provision of technical advisory 
services. 
5. 
Carrying out of participatory ecological monitoring of the activities referred to in this 
Part B.3 of the Project carrying out of participatory ecological monitoring of the activities 
referred to in paragraph 3 of this Part B of Schedule 2, through provision of technical 
advisory services. 
Part C
:
Provision of Subproject Grants
The provision of Subproject Grants for Subprojects supporting local biodiversity 
conservation activities, through, in particular, activities aimed at: (i) the protection of 
threatened or remarkable local biological resource; (ii) the improvement of natural pond, 
wetland, spring or watercourse management; (iii) the improvement of forest management; 
(iv) the improvement of pastoral land management; (v) the improvement of elephant 
protection and cohabitation with local people; (vi) the improvement of bushfire control 
mechanisms; (vii) supporting the conservation of cultural assets; (viii) supporting economic 
activities such as ecotourism and sustainable use of replenishable natural products; and 
(ix) IEC activities aimed at the biodiversity education of the local population.  
Part D
:
Capacity Building for Communal and Intercommunal Biological Resources 
Management
1. 
Supporting the CIO and CCs in intercommunal territorial planning and rules making 
for natural resources management in the Project Area, including the provision of technical 
advisory services and the acquisition of equipment. 
Page  27
-
26-
2. 
Carrying out a feasibility study on the AIG, and on the basis of its results cause the 
establishment of the AIG, improving its capacity and procuring their recognition by the 
appropriate authorities, including the provision of technical advisory services. 
3. 
The provision of training to selected staff in Communes, CCs and NGOs in areas 
such as: (i) the carrying out of participatory and ecological diagnostics; (ii) negotiating skills; 
(iii) gender awareness; (iv) utilization of holistic management techniques; (v) the carrying out 
of wildlife surveys; (vi) the carrying out of habitat management; and (vii) operation of 
modern telecommunications equipment. 
4. 
The provision of training to selected CCs, OGACs, Beneficiaries and other partners 
in planning and the carrying out of the administration of micro-projects and the management 
of Conservation Areas. 
5. 
Carrying out of conservation awareness campaigns in schools in the Project Area 
including
:
(i) radio, sketches and specific assignments; (ii) the provision of technical advisory 
services; and (iii) the acquisition of equipment. 
Part E
:
Support to Operations in the Gourma
1. 
Supporting DRCN and SCN in organizing and carrying out surveillance activities in 
the Project Area, including the provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition of 
equipment.  
2. 
The provision of training in protected area planning, administration and monitoring 
to selected staff in DRCN and SCN, including the provision of technical advisory services 
and the acquisition of equipment. 
3. 
The organizing transborder cooperation with the Sahel Wildlife Conservation Unit in 
Burkina Faso including the provision of technical advisory services. 
4. 
Supporting activities of other NGOs or local Government services when concurrent 
to achieving the Project objectives. 
5. 
Setting up a geographic information system of the Project Area, monitoring land use 
patterns, providing maps to the CMO as needed, collecting data to monitor the recovery of 
vegetation, through provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition of equipment. 
Page  28
-
27-
Part F
:
Support for National Supervision and Stocktaking 
1. 
Supporting DNCN in organizing and carrying out supervision activities in the Project 
Area, through the provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition of equipment.  
2. 
The provision of training in, 
inter alia
,
protected area planning, administration and 
monitoring to selected staff in DNCN, through the provision of technical advisory services 
and the acquisition of equipment. 
3. 
Carrying out of a study to assess existing legislation, regulatory provisions, and 
institutional responsibilities and recommend changes, as the case may be, in the area of 
effective decentralized administration of protected area management and conservation of 
biodiversity, through provision of technical advisory services. 
4. 
Conducting wildlife inventories in other protected areas in the territory of the 
Recipient, through the provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition of 
equipment. 
5. 
Carrying out a feasibility of establishing a foundation for sustainable financing of 
Conservation Areas established in the Gourma, through the provision of technical advisory 
services and the acquisition of equipment. 
6. 
Establishment, on the basis of a positive feasibility study, of a foundation for 
sustainable financing of 
 
Conservation Areas in the Gourma area, through the provision of 
technical advisory services and the acquisition of equipment. 
7. 
Establishment of a documentation center at DNCN, through the provision of 
technical advisory services and the acquisition of equipment. 
8. 
Carrying out of workshops on subjects such as (A): (i) the necessity of public reforms 
in the management of biodiversity and protected areas; (ii) best practices in community based 
natural resource management and participatory action planning; and (iii) the promotion of 
findings on regulatory and methodological reforms of biodiversity management, through the 
provision of technical advisory services, and (B) the acquisition of equipment. 
Page  29
-
28-
Part G
:
Project Administration and Monitoring
Supporting UGP activities in:  
(a) 
contracting CMO and facilitating implementation of Parts A, B, C and D of 
the Project and supervising CMO;  
(b) 
implementing Parts E, F and G of the Project, consisting in, 
inter alia
:
(i) coordinating Project activities between: (1) DNCN, DRCN, SCN and CMO, CIO, AIG, 
OGAC & CC; (2) the Recipient’s administration not directly involved in the Project; and  
(3) other Projects funded by third parties in the Project Area; 
(c) 
the provision of funds and the respective accounting of their application; 
(d) 
the efforts of procurement of goods, works and services,  
(e) 
reporting on annual audits of accounts, 
(f) 
monitoring and assessing Project implementation performance, and  
(g) 
enabling Steering Committee meetings; 
all through the provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition of 
equipment. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2010. 
Page  30
-
29-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the 
provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV of 
the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular procurement 
methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the meanings 
ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may 
be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The 
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for 
domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the 
territory of the Recipient and works to be carried out by domestic contractors. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent 
per contract and works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and the 
following additional provisions. 
 
Additional Provisions for National Competitive Bidding
.
(a) any bidders are given 
sufficient time to submit bids (4 weeks for contracts exceeding US$100,000 equivalent);  
(b) bid evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified; (c) no preference margin is 
granted to domestic contractors or manufacturers; (d) eligible foreign firms are not precluded 
from participation; (e) contracts provide for security in amounts sufficient to protect the 
Page  31
-
30-
Recipient in case of breach of contract (without distinction or exception); (f) prior to issuing 
the first call for bids, draft standard bidding documents if any, or the first 5 biding documents 
for works and the first 3 bidding document for goods, are submitted to IDA and found 
acceptable; (g) no bid is rejected during bid opening provided the bids are received prior to 
the limit deposit time, (h) award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder; and (i) the 
procedure shall also include public opening of bids, publication of results of evaluation and of 
the award of contract and provisions for bidders to protest. 
3. Shopping
.
Goods and Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
4. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
.
Motor vehicles, motorcycles and computer 
equipment may be procured directly from IAPSO and UNIPAC in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
5. Community 
Participation
.
Goods and works required for Parts A and B of the Project 
may be procured on the basis of community participation in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank. The Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for 
Community-Based Investments (February 1998), including the positive list of items 
qualifying under this component included in the Project Implementation Manual, will be 
used. Nevertheless, considering local practices and the capacity of communities to manage 
the process, the CMO will be responsible for ensuring compliance with these guidelines, and 
ex-post reviews of random subprojects will be conducted periodically by the World Bank 
Supervision missions and independent consultants appointed by the UGP. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procure
ment of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1.  
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments, which the Bank agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines estimated to cost less than 
Page  32
-
31-
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services for architectural design, 
civil works supervision and training estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for the trans-frontier coordination under Part F, 
paragraph 3 of the Project which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for Single Source Selection, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
5. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth 
in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances described in 
paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual 
consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: 
(a) 
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more 
and each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more;  
(b) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by: (i) a firm estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $100,000
 
or more, and (ii) an individual consultant estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000
 
or more.   
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  33
-
32-
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
Section I
:
Project Implementation
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual and the Environmental Management Plan and except as the 
Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend or waive any 
provision of the said Manual and Plan, if in the opinion of the Bank, such amendment or 
waiver would materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the 
achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Recipient shall carry out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project through CMO. 
2. Steering 
Committee
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain the Steering Committee until the Closing Date 
in a form and with functions and resources satisfactory to the Bank. 
(b) 
The Steering Com
mittee shall be responsible for guiding the Project’s 
implementation and reviewing and approving the annual work programs and budgets. 
3. UGP 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain until the Closing Date UGP in a form and with 
functions and resources satisfactory to the Bank
.
(b) 
UGP shall be responsible to provide assistance to CMO in implementation of 
Parts A, B, C and D of the Project and for the implementation of Parts E and F of the Project, 
including management of project funds, monitoring and evaluation, national procurement and 
consolidation of reports and work programs. 
4. CMO 
CMO shall be responsible for the implementation of Parts A, B, C and D of the 
Project, including the management of project funds deposited into the 90-day Advance 
Account, monitoring and evaluation, local procurement, reports and work programs. 
Page  34
-
33-
5. CIO
(a) 
The Recipient shall cause the establishment and maintenance of CIO in a form 
and with functions satisfactory to the Bank. 
(b) 
CIO shall be responsible for reviewing the CMO annual work plans and 
annual reports for Parts A, B, C and D of the Project as well as the approval of training 
programs in favor of communities, biodiversity Subprojects and validate Conservation Area 
Management Plans. 
 
6. AIG
(a) 
The Recipient shall cause AIG to be established in a form and with functions 
satisfactory to the Bank and shall strengthen AIG’s capacity. 
 
(b)  
If the Midterm Review determines that AIG has acquired sufficient capacity, 
the Recipient shall transfer to AIG responsibility for the supervision of Parts A, B and C of the 
Project (
maitrise d’ouvrage) 
and shall under contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank 
transfer to CMO the implementation of the said Parts of the Project. 
Section II
:
Annual Work Plans
7. 
The Recipient shall, not later than October 30 of each year, cause: (a) CMO to prepare 
and furnish to the UGC an annual work plan; and (b) UGC to prepare and submit for approval 
to the Bank through DNCN a consolidated work plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
Section III
:
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting 
8. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement the carrying out of the Project, and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, on or about February 28 of each year through DNCN,
 
a
report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out 
Page  35
-
34-
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by March 30 of each year, or such later date as the 
Recipient and the Bank shall agree upon, (Annual Review) the report referred to in  
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said re
port and the Bank’s views on the matter.  
9. 
The Recipient shall, on or about a date following thirty-four months after the 
Effective Date, carry out jointly with the Bank, UGC and CMO a midterm review of the 
progress made in carrying out the Project (the Midterm Review). The Recipient shall 
undertake all necessary steps to ensure the participation in said Midterm Review of 
representative members of AIG, CIO, CCs, OGACs and NGOs engaged in Project 
implementation, other related projects in the Project Area, civil society and representatives of 
FFEM. 
(a) 
The Midterm Review shall cover, 
inter alia
:
(i) progress made in meeting the 
Project’s objectives; (ii) results of the monitoring and evaluation activities under the Project; 
and (iii) overall Project performance compared to the intermediate Project performance 
indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, and in particular pursuant to the 
following criteria, namely that: (A) AIG is formally created and has acquired sufficient 
capacity to become responsible for the supervision (
maitrise d'ouvrage
)
of Parts A, B, C  
and D of the Project,  for which it has contracted implementation to CMO; (B) one 
conservation area is clearly demarcated in the field, possesses users rules accepted by 
representatives of Communes and primary and secondary users, and  has a legally recognized 
OGAC actively involved in its management (minutes of meeting approving management 
rules, article of incorporation, work program); and (C) nine (9) local initiatives are 
satisfactorily completed (signed contract with promoters, site visit) 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall, at least four weeks prior to the Midterm Review, furnish 
to the Bank a separate report describing the status of implementation of each component of 
the Project and a summary report of Project implementation generally. 
 
(c)  
The Recipient shall, not later than four weeks after the Midterm Review, 
prepare an action program, acceptable to the Bank, for the further implementation of the 
Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement such 
action program. 
Page  36
-
35-
Section IV
:
Specific Actions
10. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(a) 
by a date not later than six months following the Effective Date: (i) establish 
CIO pursuant to procedures and with rights and duties satisfactory to the Bank and  
(ii) contract CMO, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, and operating under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
by a date not later than twelve months following the Effective Date, 
commission, or cause the CMO to commission, the studies or contract referred to in the 
following sub-Parts of the Project, namely: Part A. 1 and 5, Part B.1 and 2, Part D.3 and 4, 
and Part F.3 and 5.  
Section V
Eligibility Criteria for and Implementation of Subprojects under Part C 
11. General
(a) 
The Recipient shall make the proceeds of the GEF Grant allocated from time 
to time to Category (5) of the table set forth in paragraph A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
available to Beneficiaries under a Subproject Grant Agreement to be entered into, 
respectively, between the Recipient and each Beneficiary pursuant to the terms and 
conditions set forth in the PIM, ESMP and this Section V; and 
 
(b) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, no 
Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the GEF Grant unless CMO has 
determined, upon appraisal of a study supporting the Subproject Grant application, conducted in 
accordance with the guidelines set forth in the PIM and ESMP, that the Subproject and the 
Beneficiary satisfy the respective eligibility criteria specified in said PIM and ESMP and that a 
Subproject Grant Agreement has been executed and is legally binding upon the parties. 
12. 
Terms and Conditions for Subproject Grant Agreements
A
Subproject financed by the proceeds of a GEF Grant shall be carried out pursuant to 
a
Subproject Grant Agreement, to be concluded between the Recipient and the Beneficiary - 
following the approval of the Subproject by CIO, in accordance with the provisions set forth in 
the PIM and ESMP providing for, 
inter alia
,
the following: 
 
(a) 
the obligation to carry out and maintain the Subproject in accordance with the 
PIM and ESMP, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate 
Page  37
-
36-
technical, environmental, financial and commercial practices and to maintain adequate records 
in such form and detail as the Recipient may reasonably request; 
(b) 
the obligation that: (i) works, goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Grant for a Subproject shall be procured according to the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) that such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively for the carrying out of the Subproject; 
 
(c) 
the right to inspect, by the Recipient or the Bank, or jointly with qualified 
representatives of the Bank, or the Recipient, if the Bank, or the Recipient, shall so request, the 
works, plans, studies and construction sites relevant to the Subproject, and any relevant 
documents; 
 
(d) 
the right to appropriate remedies, acceptable to the Bank, should the carrying 
out or the maintenance of the Subproject, as the case may be, not conform to the regulations set 
forth in the PIM and ESMP and the Subproject Grant Agreement and thereby unfavorably 
influence the attainment of the objectives of the Subproject; and 
 
(e) 
the right to obtain all such information as the Recipient or the Bank shall 
reasonably request, relating to the administration and financial condition of the Subproject. 
13. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subproject Grant Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to accomplish the 
purposes of the GEF Grant, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subproject Grant Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Page  38
-
37-
SCHEDULE 5 
Performance Indicators 
1. 
Capacity of the AIG as measured by point system equals 8 in year 3 and 14 by the 
end of the Project.  Points granted for: constitution of AIG (1pt), annual general assembly 
(1/2pt/yr), get mandate by communes on intercommunal natural resources management (2pt), 
appraised by independent evaluation as competent enough to be responsible of Parts A, B,  C 
and D of the Project and contract the CMO (3pt), contract CMO (1pt), adopt formal natural 
resources management rules (2pt), obtain consensus on its role as long-term natural resources 
planner/regulator of Gourma. 
2. 
Surface area, in square kilometer, effectively allocated as Conservation Area and 
physically demarcated as respectively Conservation Area and core zone of Conservation 
Area, equals 1,000 and 400 (
Séno Mango, N’Tillit/Tessit, Benzena
), 300 and 50 
(Gandamia),
 
100 and 0  (
Goss
i), 100 and 10 (
Main Fatma, Boni
). 
3. 
Number of Conservation Areas, which have acquired legal status and possess a 
management plan equals 1 (one) in year 3 and 4 (four) by end of Project. 
4. 
Number of OGAC legally responsible for the management of a conservation area 
equals 1 in year 3 and 4 by the end of the Project. 
5. 
Number of international conservation area jointly managed by an OGAC from Mali 
and an OGAC-equivalent from Burkina equals 1 by end of project. 
6. 
Percentage improvement of key wildlife-based indicators equals 10% in core zones 
of four Conservation Areas and 5% in multiple use zones of four Conservation Areas by end 
of Project. 
7. 
Percentage of biodiversity initiatives evaluated as successful in achieving agreed 
outcome and output equals 25 in year 3 and 50 by end of project. 
8. 
An incentive-based and result-oriented system for direct financing is designed in  
year 2, adopted in year 3, tested in year 5 and functional by end of Project.
Page  39
-
38-
