Page  1
RCA 248423. 
\09
WUI 64145 
\09
FAX (202) 477-6391
 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 473-1000 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. Cable 
Address: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
February 17, 2011 
 
H. E. Sanoussi Touré
 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Bamako 
Republic of Mali 
 
Re: Republic of Mali:  Gourma Biodiversity Conservation Project 
GEF Grant No. TF054199 
Amendment to the Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
Excellency: 
 
We refer to the Letter Agreement (the “Agreement”) entered into between the Republic 
of Mali (the “Recipient”) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the “World Bank”) acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
(“GEF”) for the Gourma Biodiversity Conservation Project dated December 14, 2004, as 
amended on July 29, 2009.  Please note that the capitalized terms used in this letter (Amendment 
Letter) and not defined herein have the meaning ascribed to them in the Agreement. 
 
We are pleased to inform you that, pursuant to your letter dated September 27, 2010, the 
World Bank hereby agrees to amend the Agreement in order to: (a) modify certain components of 
the Project acitvities; (b) reallocate the Grant proceeds among the Categories; and (c) extend the 
Project’s Closing Date.  Consequently, the Agreement is hereby amended as follows: 
1. 
Paragraph (ee) of Section 1.02 of the Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
“Rules” means the rules designed with the participation of the local communities for 
management, access to and use of communal resources in the four Conservation Areas, and 
which form part of the Management Plans;  
2. 
Section 2.03 of the Agreement is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 2.03 
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2012, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.” 
3. 
The table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 of the Agreement is hereby amended and replaced to 
read in its entirety as follows: 
Page  2
-2-  
 
“Amount of the 
 
GEF Grant 
% of 
 
Allocated(Expressed in  
Expenditures 
Category
U.S. Dollars
)
to be Financed
(1) Goods 
513,000 
100% of foreign  
expenditures and  
65% of local  
expenditures 
(2) Works 
98,000 
65% 
 
(3) Consultants services 
2,546,000 
80% of local 
 and 
audits 
 
expenditures 
 
(4) Training, studies and workshops 
752,000 
100% 
 
(5) Subproject Grants for  
800,000 
100% of amounts 
 
Part C of the Project 
 
disbursed 
 
(6) Operating Costs 
791,000 
65% 
 
(7) Unallocated 
0 
 ________ 
 TOTAL 
5,500,000 
 =======” 
4. 
Schedule 2 of the Agreement is amended to read as per the Annex 1 this letter agreement. 
5. 
Schedule 5 of the Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
“1. 
Total surface area of the Gourma formally demarcated as Conservation Areas. 
2. 
Number of Local Organizations for Biodiversity Management mobilized to 
protect the created Conservation Areas.” 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendments by signing and dating this 
Amendment Letter in the spaces provided below.  Henceforward, all other provisions of the 
Agreement, except as amended through this Amendment Letter shall remain in full force and 
effect.  This Amendment Letter shall be executed in two counterparts each of which shall be an 
original. 
 
Page  3
-3-  
 
Upon confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.  The provisions set 
forth in this Amendment Letter shall become effective as of the date of countersignature upon 
receipt by the World Bank of the countersigned original of this Amendment Letter. 
Sincerely, 
 
By  
//s// Mary Kathryn Hollifield 
Acting Country Director for Mali 
Africa Region 
 
AGREED: 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALI
 
By: //s// 
Sanoussi 
Toure
_____ 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
Name: __Sanoussi Toure
_________ 
 
Title: 
__Minister of Economy and Finance
___ 
 
Date: 
___March 21, 2011
__________ 
Page  4
-4-  
 
Annex 1 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in implementing environmental 
protection and biodiversity conservation activities in the Sahelian priority area of Gourma, through 
the improved sustainable management of natural resource use, improved returns for the local 
population.   
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
Part A
:
Support to the Creation and Management of Inter-Communal Management of 
Conservation Areas
1. 
Carrying out of biodiversity assessments of each of the four Conservation Areas; through the 
provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition of equipment. 
2. 
Carrying out of the delineation of the four Conservation Areas and negotiation of said 
delineation with the respective CCs and the local population concerned, through the provision of 
technical advisory services. 
3. 
Causing the establishment of OGAC for each of the seven Conservation Areas as well as 
advising them concerning legal recognition and internal organization and strengthening their 
management and technical capacity, through the provision of technical advisory services and the 
acquisition of equipment. 
4. 
Establishment of rules and management plans for each of the four Conservation Areas and 
their adoption by the respective authorities, through the provision of technical advisory services. 
5. 
Carrying out of activities pursuant to said management plans, such as: (i) surveillance 
activities; (ii) fire and habitat management, including deepening of existing water ponds; (iii); 
construction of trails; (iv) construction of watch towers; and (v) construction of delineation and 
border markers and sign posts;; through the provision of technical advisory services, the acquisition 
of equipment and the carrying out of works. 
Part B
:
Support to Community-based Biodiversity related Initiatives
1. 
Supporting CCs in addressing issues of biodiversity conservation and rangeland management 
and their integration into Commune development plans, through the provision of technical advisory 
services. 
Page  5
-5-  
 
2. 
Supporting biodiversity related micro-projects or micro-services referred to in Part C of this 
Schedule 2, registered in Commune development plans, through: (i) the provision of technical 
advisory services; (ii) the acquisition of equipment; and (iii) the provision of funding. 
3. 
Carrying out of workshops fostering information exchanges on improved community based 
natural resource management practices, through the provision of technical advisory services. 
Part C
:
Provision of Subproject Grants
The provision of Subproject Grants for Subprojects supporting local biodiversity 
conservation activities, through, in particular, activities aimed at: (i) the protection of threatened or 
remarkable local biological resource; (ii) the improvement of natural pond, wetland, spring or 
watercourse management; (iii) the improvement of forest management; (iv) the improvement of 
pastoral land management; (v) the improvement of elephant protection and cohabitation with local 
people; (vi) the improvement of bushfire control mechanisms; (vii) supporting the conservation of 
cultural assets; and(vii) IEC activities aimed at the biodiversity education of the local population.  
Part D
:
Capacity Building for Communal and Intercommunal Biological Resources 
Management
1. 
Supporting the CIO and CCs in intercommunal territorial planning and rules making for 
natural resources management in the Project Area, including the provision of technical advisory 
services and the acquisition of equipment. 
2. 
Provision of support for the efficient operationalization of the AIG in a manner satisfactory to 
the Association. 
3. 
The provision of training to selected CCs, OGACs, Beneficiaries and other partners in 
planning and the carrying out of the administration of micro-projects and the management of 
Conservation Areas. 
4. 
Carrying out of conservation awareness campaigns in schools in the Project Area including
:
(i) radio, sketches and specific assignments; (ii) the provision of technical advisory services; and (iii) 
the acquisition of equipment. 
Part E
:
Support to Operations in the Gourma
1. 
Supporting DRCN and SCN in organizing and carrying out surveillance activities in the 
Project Area, including the provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition of equipment.  
2. 
The provision of training in protected area planning, administration and monitoring to 
selected staff in DRCN and SCN, including the provision of technical advisory services and the 
acquisition of equipment. 
3. 
The organizing transborder cooperation with the Sahel Wildlife Conservation Unit in Burkina 
Faso including the provision of technical advisory services. 
 
Page  6
-6-  
 
Part F
:
Support for National Supervision and Stocktaking 
1. 
Supporting DNCN in organizing and carrying out supervision activities in the Project Area, 
through the provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition of equipment.  
2. 
The provision of training in, 
inter alia
,
protected area planning, administration and 
monitoring to selected staff in DNCN, through the provision of technical advisory services and the 
acquisition of equipment. 
3. 
Establishment of a documentation center at DNCN, through the provision of technical 
advisory services and the acquisition of equipment. 
4. 
Carrying out of workshops on subjects such as : (a) the necessity of public reforms in the 
management of biodiversity and protected areas; (b) best practices in community based natural 
resource management and participatory action planning; and (c) the promotion of findings on 
regulatory and methodological reforms of biodiversity management, through the provision of 
technical advisory services. 
Part G
:
Project Administration and Monitoring
Supporting UGP activities in:  
(a) 
contracting CMO and facilitating implementation of Parts A, B, C and D of the 
Project and supervising CMO;  
(b) 
implementing Parts E, F and G of the Project, consisting in, 
inter alia
:
(i) coordinating Project activities between: (1) DNCN, DRCN, SCN and CMO, CIO, AIG, OGAC & 
CC; (2) the Recipient’s administration not directly involved in the Project; and 
 
(3) other Projects funded by third parties in the Project Area; 
(c) 
the provision of funds and the respective accounting of their application; 
(d) 
the efforts of procurement of goods, works and services,  
(e) 
reporting on annual audits of accounts, 
(f) 
monitoring and assessing Project implementation performance, and  
(g) 
enabling Steering Committee meetings;  
all through the provision of technical advisory services and the acquisition of equipment. 
 
Page  7
-7-  
 
