Report No. 777-TUN                                                            FILE  COPY
Appraisal of a
Third Education Project
in the Republic of Tunisia
june 18, 1975
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middie East and North Africa Region
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared tor official use only hy the Bank Group. It may not
be published quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Dinar = 1000 Millimes
1.000 D = US$2.44
US$1.00 = D 0.410
AREA EQUIVALENTS
1 m2          10.76 sq. ft.
1 km2          0.39 sq. mi.
1 Hectare      2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT IN THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY  AND  CONCLUSIONS  ............ .......... . ... .                             i-iii
I.     INTRODUCTION  ......                   ...............................                     1
Il.      COUNTRY  BACKGROUND  ...............................                                      2
Physical  Environment  and Population  ....                         ..........            2
Socio-Economic  Development  .......................                                      2
III.   THE EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT SECTOR ....                                            3
The Present  Syste    .....................................                               3
Educational  Issues  ......                ..................... .                        5
Educational  Development  Strategy  ................ .                                    8
IV.      THE  PROJECT  ......................................                                      9
Objectives  .........             .....................              .....                9
I.T.M.  .........   .            .................................                       il
Teacher  Training  .....                 ............................                    12
Post-Primaire  ....................................                                      13
Technical  Assistance                     .............................                  16
Cost  Estimates  ...................................                                     18
Financial  Plan  ..               .................................                     20
Implementation  .                ..................................                     20
Disbursement  .....................................                                     22
V.  BENEFITS ..........................................                                          22
VI.      AGREEMENTS REACHED  AND  RECOMMENDATIONS  ....                         .......           23



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2.  The Education and Training System
3.  Structure of the Formal Education System:  1973/74
4. Budgeted Current Expenditure on Education and Training
by Agency, 1972-74 (in Dinars)
5. The Education Pyramid, 1973/74 (Public Only)
6. The ITM Experiment ('Initiation au Travail Manuel')
7. Proposed Program of Studies for the Ministry of Education
Planning Unit
8. Breakdown of Operating Expenditures of Ministry of Education
by Education Level and Type of Expenditures, 1974
9. Estimated Recurrent Expenditures for Formal Schooling, 1985.
10. Estimated GDP, Government and Ministry of Education Expenditures, 1985
11. Technical Assistance
12. Project Costs by Type of Expenditures
13. Contingency Allowances
14. Implementation Schedule
15. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
MlAP



Glossary
Baccalaureat                              Equivalent secondary completion certificate
Dé1egation                                Delegation or district (Province)
Délégue                                   Delegate of district representative
Ecole normale                             Teacher training institute (loose)
Instituteur                               Primary teacher
Lycee                                     General secondary school
Moniteur                                  Assista-nt primary teacher
Post-primaire                             Post-primary non-formal education and
training scheme
Stagiaire                                 Teacher trainee in final practice year
Tronc commun                              lst Cycle secondary
CFPA   : Centre de Formation,             Agricultural Training Center
Professionnelle Agricole
CFPA   : Centre de Formation              Adult Accelerated Vocational Training
Professionnelle des                Center
Adultes
ENS    : Ecole Normale Superieure         Higher Teacher Training College of Tunis
de Tunis
ENSET  : Ecole Normale Supe'rieure        Higher Technical Teacher Training College
d'Enseignement Technique
ENSS        : Ecole Nationale du          National College of Social Work
Service Social
INAT       : Institut National            National Agricultural Institute
d'Agronomie de
Tunisie
INP        : Institut National            National Institute of Production and
de Productivité               Management



INSE       : Institut National          National Institute for
des Sciences de          Educational Sciences
l'Education
ITM        : Initiation aux              Introduction to Manual Work
Travaux Manuels
ITMA       : Initiation aux              Introduction to Agricultural Manual Work
Travaux Manuels
Agricoles
ITMI       : Initiation aux              Introduction to Industrial Manual Work
Travaux Manuels
Industriels
ONA        : Office National de          National Bureau of Handicrafts
l'Artisanat
OTTEEFP    : l'Office des Travail-       Bureau for Tunisian Workers Abroad,
leurs Tunisiens à             of Employment and Vocational
l'Etranger de l'Emploi        Training
et de la Formation
Professionnelle
SONMIVAS   : Socié'té Nationale          National Society for the Development of
pour la Mise en Valeur        the South
du Sud
UNFT       : Union Nationale des         National Union of Tunisian Women
Femmes de Tunisie



TUNISIA
BASIC DATA (1973) 1/
Total Population                               5.5 million
Natural Rate of Population Growth              2.6% p.a.
Actual Rate of Population Growth (adjusted    2.0% p.a.
for emigration)
Per Capita GNP                                 about US$ 400
Adult Literacy Rate (over 15 years old)        55%
Elementary School Enrollment as a              88.3% Y
Percentage of Age Group 6-il
Secondary School Enrollment as a               19.2% Y
Percentage of Age Group 12-18
Higher Education Enrollment as a                2.5% 2/
Percentage of Age Group 19-22
Central Govermuent Expenditures on
Education as a Percentage of Total           26.0%
Central Goverment Expenditures 2/
Central Government Expenditures 31
on Education as a Percentage of GDP          7.1%
Ministry of Education Expenditures as
Percentage of GDP                            6.0%
- of which:  current expenditures         (5.3%)
capital expenditures         (0.7%)
/ See Annexes 1 and 2 for comparative educational data and a detailed
description of the present education and training system.
2 Including overaged students.
- Estimate only because of multiplicity of agencies devoting part
of their budget to education/training activities.






SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Following independence in 1956, the main objective of the Tunisian
education authorities was to expand educational facilities as rapidly as pos-
sible, doubling primary school enrollments and nearly quadrupling secondary
school enrollments. At present, 88.3%, 19.2% and 2.5% of the relevant age
groups are enrolled in primary, secondary and higher education respectively.
Mi.       Previous Bank Group assistance supported this rapid expansion.  An
IDA credit of US$5.0 million (Credit 29-TUN), approved in 1963, financed the
construction and equipment of 4,000 new places tn primary teacher training
and secondary schools. A second IDA credit of $13.0 million (Credit 94-TUN),
approved in 1966, provided additional support for secondary level expansion
to meet skilled manpower requirements of commerce and industry.  The Credit,
as modified in 1968, financed the construction and equipment of 20,000 student
places, about 42% of the government's secondary level expansion program, and
provided technical assistance for the study of possible reform measures.
iii.      Since 1968, however, as the education system has continued to develop,
two major deficiencies of the system have become more prominent: (i) the low
efficiency and inequity of the primary school system; and (ii) the irrelevance
of secondary level education/training programs to labor market needs. In
response, the government initiated a reform of the education system in the
early 1970s by restructuring the secondary level and introducing practical
work into the primary level on an experimental basis. The continuing dialogue
on the education sector between the Bank and the government has concentrated
on measures to strengthen this reform movement. The proposed project would
help to correct the above key deficiencies and assist in strengthening the
momentum of existing reform measures, extend them to the post-primary level
and make possible the subsequent introduction of additional, well studied,
reforms into the educational content and the institutional structure of the
Tunisian educational system.
iv.       Specifically, the project would provide:
(a) construction, furnishing and equipment for:
-    55 primary schools
-    conversion of 2 classrooms into a prevocational
workshop in each of 156 primary schools
-    expansion of 5 ecoles normales and the National Center
for Continuous Education at Korba
-    10 experimental post-primary non-formal education centers
-    extensions (pre-vocational workshops) in 40 existing
primary schools



ii -
(b) equipment only for:
-    agricultural-oriented pre-vocational training in 210
existing primary schools
(c) related technical assistance.
v.        The project would assist in improving the relevance and equity of
primary schooling by financing the first phase of a major program to improve
the relevancy of the primary school curriculum and expand the program of prac-
tical work in primary schools. The project would also include the establish-
ment of an evaluation/curriculum development unit 1/ which would monitor this
large-scale transformation of the primary system and explore new ways to
increase the relevance of the primary school curriculum. In addition, the
project would assist in the reorientation of the teacher training curriculum,
by the introduction of practical subjects, and would provide the necessary
buildings and equipment to permit the accelerated retraining/upgrading of
the teaching force.
vi.       At post-primary level, the project would finance an experimental new
approach to train primary school-leavers who do not go on to further education,
and thus extend the benefits of reforms to new educational activities and to
new target groups. The experimental schemes would be located in two of the
poorer governorates, and would integrate employment-oriented training programs
into a comprehensive network of mutually reinforcing activities, responsive
to local needs and avoiding duplication. At secondary level, the project
would include, inter alia, a study of the reorientation of curricula, in-
troducing more science and technology. The project would also finance a
major study of education/training and employment which would help chart a
new course for the Tunisian fifth plan and would review the entire structure
of secondary and higher education in the process.
vii.      Finally, the project would also provide technical assistance to the
Ministry of Education for the evaluation of current efforts as well as to study
further reforms in the system, contributing to institution building, stimulat-
ing the reform of the examination system, and establishing a systematic source
of information/evalution as needed for proper educational planning and pro-
gramming.
viii.    -As the second education project (Credit 94-TUN) is expected to be
completed in June 1975, nearly all personnel responsible for implementation
have already been phased out.   A new Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to be
responsible for the implementation of this project would therefore be required.
The PIU, appropriately staffed and suitably empowered, would be placed under
the Director of Primary Education of the Ministry of Education, who also
controls the ecoles normales and the National Center for Continuous Education
at Korba.
1/   L'Unite d'Evaluation (Evaluation Unit).



- iii -
ix.       Civil works contracts would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. Nevertheless,
few foreign firms are expected to submit bids because of the large number of
small, geographically dispersed items and ability of the local construction
industry to undertake the type of construction required. Furniture and
equipment contracts would be arJarded on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding except for miscellaneous items or categories of items costing
less than $3,000, which may be procured on the basis of reasonable and com-
petitive local procedures, including price quotations from not less than
three suppliers; items so procured shall not exceed $330,000 equivalent for
the total project. For goods procured under i.c.b., local manufacturers of
furniture and equipment would be allowed a margin of preference equal to the
existing rate of custom duty applicable to competing imports or 15% of c.i.f.
price, whichever is lower; bid comparisons for furniture and equipment would
be in accordance with the Bank Guidelines on the applicable domestic pre-
ferences in bid evaluation.
x.        The total project cost is estimated at US$27.6 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$8.9 million (para 4.43). The proposed
project is suitable as a basis for a Bank loan of US$8.9 million to the
Republic of Tunisia.






I. INTRODIUCTION
1.01      The First Bank Group financed education project in Tunisia (Credit
29-TUN) was approved in 1963. The project increased the supply of qualified
teachers for primary and first cycle secondary schools and supported the
introduction of technical subjects in secondary schools through the con-
struction and equipping of technical and multilateral secondary schools.
The credit ($5.0 million) created a total new capacity of 4,000 student
places. The project was completed satisfactorily in 1968.
1.02      The second education project (Credit 94-TUN), approved in 1966,
supported further secondary level expansion to meet skilled manpower needs in
commerce and industry. The IDA Credit of $13.0 million (as modified in 1968)
provided 20,000 student places, about 42% of a planned government expansion
program for 1966-70, by financing the construction and equipment of 9 new
multilateral secondary schools, and the equipment of 16 multilateral and 11
industrial secondary schools. Credit 94-TUN also provided technical assistance
to the Planning Unit of the Ministry of Education to study the needs of the
education system, and to determine possible reform measures. The project is
expected to be satisfactorily completed in June, 1975.
1.03      Since 1968, with the continued development of the Tunisian educa-
tion and training system, two major problems have become more prominent:
(i) the low efficiency and inequity of the primary school system;
and
(ii) the irrelevance of secondary level education/training programs
to labor market needs.
In response to these problems, some reforms were initiated in the early 1970s,
and the continuing dialogue on the education sector between the Bank and the
Tunisian authorities concentrated on measures to strengthen the momentum of
reform.
1.04      In September, 1974, a mission comprising Mr. A. de Capitani (IBRD)
and Mr. G. Palm (Unesco) visited Tunisia and agreed with the government on the
content of a possible third education project which would respond to these
needs. The project was prepared by a Unesco mission in October/November, 1974.
A Bank mission comprising Messrs. I. Serageldin (economist, mission leader),
R. Prosser (general education/rural development specialist), S. Syrimis
(technical educator, Unesco), and A. Andonyadis (architect) visited Tunisia
in November/December 1974 to appraise the project.
1.05      The project was modified by the appraisal mission in agreement with
the goveroment. The proposed equipping of laboratories at lower secondary
cycle was dropped as the government has not yet finalized its review of the
curriculum at that level; a new experimental type of post-primary training



- 2 -
was introduced; and the technical assistance program was expanded to include
(i) a study of employment and education/training, (ii) evaluation studies of
the proposed post-primary training experiment and a new type of pre-voca-
tional activity to be tested in 18 primary schools, and (iii) the estab-
lishment of a unit to evaluate the effectiveness of reform measures at
primary level.
II. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
Physical Environment and Population
2.01      Tunisia covers an area of some 164,000 sq.km., comparable in size to
Greece and Guatemala. It is divided into three distinct regions. The North
comprises about 20% of the country's total area and contains the most fertile
land. It is the home of 70% of the population and the chief area of economic
activity. The center is a steppe-like region covering about 20% of the coun-
try's total area, with settled farming predominant near the coast and mostly
grazing in the interior. The South, comprising the rest of the country, con-
sists mostly of desert, covering about 60,000 sq.km., except for athinly popu-
lated coastal area. In this region, cultivation and grazing are possible only
in some irrigated oases.
2.02      At the end of 1972, Tunisia had a total population of 5.4 million,
increasing at an annual rate of 2.5%. Between 1956 and 1966 (census years),
an estimated 200,000 Europeans and 50,000 Tunisians emigrated. The population
is Arabic-speaking, with widespread use of French as a second language. Forty-
five percent of the population lives in the four northeastern coastal prov-
inces of Tunis, Sousse, Sfax and Bizerte, where population density approaches
100 per sq.km. as opposed to fewer than 20 inhabitants per sq.km. in the south-
western interior. This dispersion of rural population has made the provision
of educational facilities more difficult.
Socio-Economic Development
2.03      Tunisia has made considerable social gains since Independence in
1956. Public capital and current expenditures on social services per head
more than doubled between 1962 and 1971 and represented 11.4% of GDP in 1971.
Free health services were also expanded, particularly in the urban centers,
and a family planning program is being pursued vigorously. The educational
system has grown rapidly since Independence, doubling primary school enroll-
ments and nearly quadrupling secondary schools enrollments. The Ministry of
Education now absorbs almost one third of the total annual government budget.
The rapid expansion of the system has, however, weakened its efficiency, and
growth among the regions has been uneven.



2.04      In social services generally, but particularly in the fields of edu-
cation and health, the poorer rural areas have received less than their due.
In addition, as a result of past socio-economic policies which have concen-
trated on maximizing economic growth without particular concern for income
distribution, the development of the rural areas has not kept pace with the
urban. Nearly all new industries and tourist facilities have been located
in the northern coastal and urban areas, and today the prosperity of these
areas contrasts strongly with the rural hinterland and southern governorates
which are characterized by poverty, unemployment and under-employment.
2.05      This has resulted in a large internal migration from the south and
central regions towards the northeast. The two Tunis governorates are in-
creasing at the expense of all other governorates, and from 1966 through 1970,
gained 51,000 inhabitants from internal migration. Metropolitan Tunis now
accounts for 14% of the national population, and is growing at 5% annually.
2.06      In the Fourth National Development Plan, 1973-1976, the government
has recognized the need to redress imbalances and is pursuing a strategy
to improve the standard of living in the rural areas, while still pursuing
economic growth.  But the government has not yet sufficiently adapted its
national educational strategy (para. 3.20) to support effectively its growing
rural development programs. Some of the existing programs (Annex 2) respond
partially to local needs, but much additional effort is needed before the
educational system is synchronized with the government's other rural develop-
ment efforts. This project would respond to this need by providing two pilot
schemes for post-primary training in rural areas (paras. 4.15-4.30)'which
would be closely tied to integrated rural development efforts at the local
level.
III. THE EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT SECTOPR
The Present System (Annex 2)
3.01      Structure and Management:  The formal school system (Annex 3) is
deeply rooted in the francophone tradition and comprises a primary cycle (6
grades) followed by a lower secondary tronc common (common cycle) of 3 grades,
and an.upper secondary cycle of 4 grades, divided into optional programs
(streams), some of which comprise 5 grades. Paralleling the lower secondary
or common-cycle, vocational schools offer 3-year courges leading directly to
employmént. Higher education is provided by the University of Tunis and a
number of specialized institutions. The formal system, with the exception
of pre-school education, is managed by the Ministry of Education, but the
higher education institutions enjoy varying degrees of autonomy. Less than
2% of enrollment is in private schools.
3.02      A number of other governnent ministries and agencies administer
various non-formal programs in basic education, agricultural and industrial



-4-
skill training and social education (Annex 4). The organization and struc-
ture therefore exist to meet a great variety of learning needs both formally
and non-formally, and efforts are already being made to coordinate, expand
and improve programs and to promote new ones. Coverage is still meager,
however, and much improvement in quality is required before programs can
respond adequately to actual learning needs.
3.03      Magnitude:  The formal education system is relatively well developed
(Annex 5). In 1973/74, enrollments were 866,000 in primary schools, 179,000
in secondary schools and 12,000 in university and other third level institu-
tions, corresponding to 88.3%, 19.2% and 2.5% of the relevant age groups.
50% of the secondary enrollment was in the tronc commun and 16% in vocational
schools. Education is free, but not compulsory.
3.04      Repeater and drop-out rates have been high throughout the system,
with promotion rates averaging 70%, 74%, 70% at primary, tronc commun and
upper secondary levels, respectively. Successful measures have recently been
introduced to reduce student wastage, especially at primary level, by the
introduction of remedial classes, upgrading the teaching force and curriculum
improvement.
3.05      During the last two years, primary school enrollments have dropped
by 69,000, due principally to the enforcement of rules which limit repetition
to no more than twice over the 6-grade cycle, and secondary level enrollments
have dropped by 5,000 due to a conscious government decision to limit admis-
sions to about 30% of the sixth grade enrollment of the preceding year.
3.06      Teacher Training:  Primary teacher training enrollments, which had
increased during the rapid expansion of primary school enrollments - reaching
11,286 in 1970/71 - have been drastically reduced during the present emphasis
on qualitative improvement rather than continued expansion. In 1973/74
enrollments were 4,974 of which 2,559 trainees were in the fourth and final
year. The ecoles normales (teacher training institutions) have been gradually
converted to other uses, from a peak of 17 in 1970/71 to 10 in 1973/74 with
an eleventh, Korba, redesignated as the "National Center for Continuous Edu-
cation" for teacher upgrading and retraining (para. 4.12). The system will
be reduced to only five ecoles normales in 1975/76. The excess capacity in
the former ecoles normales will be used for expansion of secondary schools.
3.07      The government does not at present have a definitive plan for prim-
ary school teacher training. The M-inistry is considering raising the admis-
sion requirements to ecoles normales to post-baccalaureat level and limiting
pedagogic instruction to only one year to be followed by one year of practice
teaching internship, "stagiaire". The objective is to maintain a teacher:
pupil ratio of 1:40 at primary level and to upgrade the existing teaching
force of about 20,000, which is completely Tunisian, of which 45% is under-
qualified. Considering these broad goals, the projected annual output 1/ is
1/   Output is defined as trainees who have successfully completed their
"stagiaire" year. The projection assumes an upgrading of the level of
intake to post-baccalaureat level.



-5-
estimated by the mission to decrease from about 1,000 in 1973/74 to about 600
in 1976/77, and then increase gradually to about 2,300 in 1990 to cope with
expanding primary school enrollments. 1/ Excess capacity in the intervening
years would be used for teacher retraining and upgrading on a large scale.
This pattern would enable a qualitative improvement in the output and would
not pose serious problems for recruitment.
3.08      Secondary and technical school teachers are trained for four years
at the ENS (Ecole Normale Superieure) and the ENSET (Ecole Normale Superieure
pout l'Enseignement Technique) respectively. The government intends gradually
to replace the expatriate teachers, who comprise 32% of the 7,200 secondary
level teaching force, and studies are under way to evaluate the feasibility
of this objective versus various time horizons. Although a decision has not
yet been reached on this question, both the ENS and the ENSET have prepared
short-term expansion plans.
Educational Issues
3.09      Relevance:  The rapid expansion of enrollments which has taken place
since Independence in 1956 (para. 2.03) has occurred with a curriculum which
has concentrated exclusively on literacy and has assumed that most children
would proceed to higher levels of formal schooling. This may have been appro-
priate when the base intake was small and the demand was high for personnel
to fill middle and higher level clerical, administrative and teaching posts
to supplement and, after Independence, to replace foreign personnel. This
is, however, no longer the case and the perpetuation of the use of this cur-
riculum is an important factor which is giving rise to students' unfavorable
attitudes to practical work and frustration from unfulfilled expectations.
Furthermore, the majority of young people who do not enter secondary school-
ing suffer from a sense of failure because, without a school learning certifi-
cate, their schooling is not appreciated or recognized by employers or society
at large.
3.10      The government is aware of the problem, and although appreciating
that its roots lie as much in other economic and social forces at work in
Tunisian society, has begun to correct the orientation of basic schooling
to satisfy better the realities of employment opportunities and of adult
life. The chosen strategy is to extend the benefits of the "Initiation aux
Travaux Manuels" (ITM) experiment to all primary schools. The ITM experiment
(Annex 6) introduces manual work into the 5th and 6th grades curriculum.
Clearly, however, ITM is only a first step in what must be a major revision
of the purposes and content of education/training provided at the various
levels of the system (para. 4.32 and Annex 7) and in the establishment of
new post-primary institutions that would build upon primary schooling and
enable graduates to be meaningfully integrated into the labor force (paras.
4.15-4.30).
1/   Based on projected improvements in the efficiency of the system and
expansion of intake to the equivalent of 100% of the 6-year olds by 1985.



-6-
3.11      External Productivity:  The orientation of curricula to provide
greater relevance is but the first step in adapting the education/training
system to a complex employment situation. The integration of the various
education and training prograns into a comprehensive planned system tailored
to the needs of the internal and external job markets still remains to be
accomplished (para. 4.32). Such adjustments will also have to to include
changes in structure and size of the various component parts of the system.
Furthermore, even in terms of providing basic literacy and numeracy, the
qualitative output of the primary system is poor. The limited available
evidence shows that cognitive achievement in primary schools is low. A small
survey of 6th grade pupils in 1973 showed, for example, that only 27% could
comprehend a national newspaper in French, only 38% had a similar comprehension
of Arabic, and tiat less than a quarter (23%) had an adequate ability in
arithmetic.
3.12      Internal Efficiencv:  The system is highly inefficient.  Primary
schools showed low promotion rates reaching a minimum between 5th and 6th
grades (69% in 1973/74). At present, 10.2 pupil years of primary schooling
are required to produce a 6th grade leaver. The high wastage rates may be
accounted for partly by the relatively underqualified teaching staff, and
partly by the use of French as a language of instruction. From the 4th grade,
French is the language of instruction in three fifths of the weekly timetable.
This undoubtedly poses severe problems for children in the rural areas who
have had no prior knowledge of French and have little opportunity to use
French outside the classroom.
3.13      Conditions are similarly inefficient at the secondary level,  For
the tronc commun, the average graduate completes the three-year course in 3.5
years and 5 pupil years are required to produce one graduate.  At the upp 
four-year cycle, the corresponding figures for baccalaureat coursesparet5'ie5
years and 9.7 pupils years per graduate.
3.14      KIuiC:  The present system tends to favor the urban and the wealthy
at the expense of the rural and the poor. Poorer and rural children generally
benefit less proportionately from primary schooling, drop out more frequently,
and consequently represent a declining percentage of enrollments at higher
levels of education. For example, in 1973/74, Nabeul, a rich, urban gover-
norate had an enrollment ratio of 78.9% (6-14 years old) versus 44.9% for
Kasserine, a poorer rural governorate. The recent nationwide drop in primary
enrollments (para. 3.05) was also more severely felt in Kasserine where the
enrollment ratio for the 6-14 age group dropped from 57% (1969/70) to 45%
(1973/74) versus a corresponding drop from 82% to 79% in Nabeul. School
attendance of girls is also affected by level of income and urbanization;
girls in 1973/74 represented 47% of the primary enrollment in Tunis Nord
but only 27% in Kasserine.
3.15      This imbalance is due partly to the use of French as a language of
instruction and partly to the various socio-economic pressures that affect



-7-
school attendance. The governinent is seeking to redress these imbalances by
a variety of measures which stop short of arabization of the medium of in-
struction in primary schools.
3.16      Education for Rural Development:  At village level, in addition to
the rural primary school, educational and training centers are operated by
the Ministry of Social Development, the Ministry of Agriculture, the ONA, the
OTTEEFP, and UNFT (Clossary). These programs are small compared to their
target population but they provide a base on which broader schemes can be
developed. The programs of OTTEEFP, ONA and UNFT respond particularly well
to local needs. Agricultural and farmer training, however, is less respon-
sive due in part to its highly formalized structure including academic type
courses punctuated with written examinations and certification and its separa-
tion from farmer extension services. The opportunity exists now, and is
being taken in some governorates, to link the new orientation in primary
schooling to the various out-of-school training programs and to gear all of
these to new institutions being established to develop rural areas economical-
ly and socially as part of the government's national development strategy.
A period of trial and experimentation is beginning that depends for its suc-
cess on the strengthening and continuation of the willingness of the government
to decentralize its activities, to eliminate the entrenched sectoral and juris-
dictional boundaries as well as involving the local people more closely in
the development process. The proposed pilot post-primary schemes (paras. 4.15-
4.30) will provide a harmonized system of locally oriented, flexible out-of-
school education and training which could establish the future pattern for the
orientation of rural education/training in Tunisia.
3.17      Educational Finance:  The Tunisian government spends about 7% of
GDP and 30% of its recurrent budget on education (Annex 4). These are very
1i;gh figures which raise serious doubts about the possibility of diversion
of further resources to education and which emphasize the necessity for find-
ing ways to curtail expenditures and to redistribute these expenditures more
efficiently among the various elements of the system, especially as the country
ultimately moves towards a 100% coverage of the primary school age population.
3.18      The Ministry of Education accounts for 86.5% of all recurrent ex-
penditures on education. The percentage of the Ministry of Education's total
budget allocated to recurrent expenditures has increased steadily from 77%
in 1968/69 to the present 90%, which reflects increases in teachers' salaries
and a reduced rate of school building construction as expansion of enrollments
was curtailed (para. 3.05). Recurrent expenditures on primary education are
inordinately small compared with secondary and higher education; unit costs
at primary are 30.4 D/student/year, or 20% and 3% of the unit costs for
secondary and higher education respectively (Annex 8). These percentages have
not changed over the last few years. Personnel costs account for 93.4% of
recurrent expenditures at the primary level, reflecting low expenditure on
teaching materials or compensatory assistance for needy children. These latter
expenditures will be increased by the introduction of IT?, remedial classes
and other proposed reforms.



- 8 -
3.19      Assuming that the present 26% of total government current expendi-
tures (or about 5.5% of GDP) would be a ceiling for Ministry of Education
current expenditures, and taking the two hypotheses established in the eco-
nomic report 1/ as a basis for developing low and high estimates of GDP using
1985 as a target year, it should be feasible, even within the limits of the
iow estimate, to enroll 100% of the 6-year olds, extend the basic cycle to
9 years of schooling by 1985 and substantially improve educational efficiency
and quality. These projections take into account: (i) the likely increase
in unit cost at primary level due to ITM (6 D/pupil in 5th and 6th grade) and
other reforms; and (ii) the gradual reduction of unit costs at secondary level,
and stabilization of unit costs at higher level, due primarily to the replace-
ment of expatriate teachers. These projections, representing only one set of
possibilities, are described in detail in Annex 9 and summarized in Annex 10.
They indicate that the government, without increasing the relative share of
GDP devoted to education, can extend its benefits to all children and concom-
itantly improve the efficiency, equity and quality of the system.
Educational Development Strategy
3.20      The Fourth Plan (1973-76) stresses the necessity of harmonizing the
output of the education system with the economy's needs. The policy and ob-
jectives defined by the Fourth Plan, and being pursued by the government,
can be summarized as follows:
(i)  Primary Education:  To increase capacity sufficiently to accom-
modate all school-age children who wish to enroll, but without
making schooling compulsory. Efforts will also be made to in-
crease the participation of girls to approximately the same per-
centage as boys. The plan proposes to increase the internal
efficiency of primary education by improving the quality of
the teaching force through large-scale upgrading and retrain-
ing (para. 3.07), and to guide students toward scientific and
technical careers through appropriate curricula adjustments,
the most important of which is the currently proposed extension
of ITM (para. 3.10) to as large a number of primary schools as
possible. ITM would provide a foundation of practical work
upon which secondary schools and post-primary training could
build (Annex 6).
(ii)  Secondary Education:  To enroll increasing nurmbers of students
in the technical, mathematics, science and vocational streams,
to strengthen the mathematics, sciences and technical courses,
and increase the number of teachers in these subjects.
(iii)  Higher Education:  Due to the rapidly increasing number of
secondary school graduates (bacheliers), third level enrollment
is expected to increase at a rate of 22% a year during the plan
1/   IBRD, The Economic Development of Tunisia (Report No. 274-TUN), Vol. 1
p. 200-201.



-9-
period, which would not produce excessive output provided that
students are enrolled in scientific and technical disciplines.
The government is currently studying various administrative
measures and inducements to ensure such streaming.
(iv)  Organization and Management:  The government expects to estab-
lish, in the near future, a coordinating mechanism that would
provide a comprehensive umbrella for all types of education
and training at the post-primary level, and relate these more
closely to the needs of the job market.
3.21      On the whole, the present strategy conforms to the needs of the
country's evolving socio-economic situation, but the following aspects are
not sufficiently emphasized:
(î) expanding primary education to reach all 6 year old children,
and making compulsory as rapidly as possible the necessary
schooling to acquire basic literacy and numeracy;
(ii)  improving equity, especially at primary level, to provide each
child with a better chance to benefit from the advantages that
education offers;
(iii) providing adequate training for the large number of primary
school leavers who do not enter secondary schools, for the
dropouts and the unschooled, in order to integrate them more
effectively into the labor force; and
(iv)  exploring means of reducing the financing and economic costs
of providing these expanding educational services.
3.22      Since this development strategy was delineated in 1972, the govern-
ment has increasingly recognized the need to emphasize the above aspects.
The proposed project is designed particularly to assist in the realization
of (ii) and (iii) above.
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives:
4.01      The objectives of the proposed project are:
(M) to introduce a more relevant primary school curriculum and
increase the efficiency of the primary school system;
(ii)  to promote change at the post-primary level by providing
training directly related to employment opportunities for
the large numbers of youths who will not be admitted to
the academic secondary level education; and



- 10 -
(iii)  to provide support for ongoing educational reform studies
through assistance to the Ministry of Education planning
unit and through additional studies of measures that would
improve structure and content.
4.02      Specifically, the project would comprise the following:
Estimpted        AccommodatioEi
Student Places      Annual    Student   Staff
Project Items                  Grades  New    Replacement    Output   Boarding  Housing  Other
ITM
Construction and equipping    1-6    4,500    11,200          2,300       --         --      --
of 55 primqry schools
Conversion and equipping of   5-6    3,100]          --        n.a.       --         __      __
,1? clnssrooms into 156
ITMI1 workshops
Equipping 210 ITMA workshops  5-6    5,0001/         --       n.a.        --         --
Constraction and Equipping
of 22 ITMI and 18 ITM-
Polyvalent workshops
Teacher Training
Construction arid equipping   1h-15      450L        --       n.a,.
of workshops in 5 écoles
normales
Expansion arnd equipping       n.a.       75         --      vari;ble    175 /
of the National Center
of ContInuous Education
Post-prima,ry Non-formal Edu-
cation
Construction & equipping in:
Medinine: one regional center n.0a       295         --          370      225 3      -       1 
and six satellite centers                                               (5)(       (4)    (6) /
Kn,irouan: one regional center n.a2      390         --         530.      286        10      3
and two satellite centers
Technical Assistance             n.a.      n.a.      n.e0       n.a.        n0a.       n.p.   n-a.
"nO.a" means not applicable
"--"   means negligible                              31  In parentheses, places to be remodelled.
j  Workshop places only                               /  Custodian houses.
O Of which 150 are replacemnr.t                         Worker housing.



- 11 -
I.T.M.
4.03      The "Initiation aux Travaux Manuels" (ITM) program would provide
fifth and sixth grade children with exposure to manual work at a rudimentary,
pre-vocational level. The purpose of this exposure, which marks a radical de-
parture from the previous academic conception of primary education, is to:
(W)  increase the relevance of the curriculum for the vast
majority of primary school children who will not continue
into secondary schooling, relate the curriculum to the local
environment and correlate abstract subjects to practical
problems, putting adequate emphasis on the latter;
(ii)  endeavor to eradicate long-standing unfavorable attitudes
towards manual work; and
(iii)  provide a basis for further training, in school or on the job.
4.04      The ITM concept has been tried on an experimental basis for 2-3
years with the support of Unicef and ILO. The experimental program (Annex 6)
was conducted in facilities of the OTTEEFP (Glossary) and the Ministry of
Agriculture, utilizing their instructors with primary teachers, all under the
aegis of the Ministry of Education and evaluated by the INSE (Glossary). ITM
is now to be extended to approximately 95% of all 5th and 6th graders by 1981.
This project would support the first tranche of this expansion and would ex-
tend ITM to approximately 422 primary schools, corresponding to about 18% of
the primary schools in operation in 1974.
4.05      Curricula are closely related to the environment, and for purposes
of classification, three `types` are identified: ITMA (agriculture oriented);
ITMI (industrial oriented); and ITM-Polyvalent (industrial and agricultural
oriented). Agricultural training consists of theory and practical work re-
lated to local farming and animal husbandry. The industrial oriented curri-
culum consists of metalwork, woodwork, and masonry for 5th grade; and metal
work, woodwork, basic construction, and simple electrical repairs for 6th
grade. Both ITMI and ITMA relate practical training to mathematics and
language instruction.
4.06      Workshops are required for the ITMI schools and sheds and storage
cabinets for ITMA schools. Each ITMI workshop is to serve 150-400 students,
and each ITMA, 30-100 students. A preliminary survey has shown that school
sites in the poor urban districts are so limited in size that the required
building space for workshops cannot be provided.  Because these poor urban
schools are those that most require the ITMI, two classrooms in each of 156
schools in these districts would be converted to a workshop. The number of
student places lost by such conversion would be compensated by the construc-
tion of 55 new primary schools in the same districts, each with its own ITMI
workshop. As these districts are among the poorest in the nation, receiving
the bulk of the rural-urban migration and registering higher-than-average
population growth rates, an additional 4,500 places would be incorporated



- 12 -
into these 55 new schools, beyond the 11,200 places needed for replacement
of converted classrooms to permit a modest expansion of primary education
in these districts corresponding to about 1.0% of the present primary school
enrollment.
4.07      This project item would finance the construction, conversions and
equJpment of: (i) 55 new primary schools; (ii) 18 ITM Polyvalent centers dis-
persed throughout the country; (iii) the workshops converted from classrooms
in 156 existing primary schools; (iv) 22 new ITHI and 210 (only equipment)
new ITMA in the governorates of Medenine and Kairouan which would also benefit
from the two experimental post-primary schemes (paras. 4.15-4.30). All con-
struction, except for the 55 new primary schools and the conversions in the
156 existing primary schools, would be financed by the government. For class-
rooms, the estimated use factors would range from 80% to 96% and for workshops,
wou kl4     fom 32% n th             t schools in tke,rural areas to 85% in the
i arg               v bb-n tkrbA-, îe 
4.08    -To"'PWIMe -ïI311 I'fders tanding of the impact of ITM and to assist
in developing better ways of achieving its objectives, an evaluation/curriculum
development unit comprised of education, statistics and survey research spe-
cialists (with adequate supporting staff) would be created in the Ministry of
Education to monitor continuously the progress and expansion of ITn and the
further development of the primary school curriculum. The government agreed
that this unit would be established within 12 months of the signing of the
Loan Agreement.
Teacher Training
4.09      Ecoles Normales:  This project item would finance the construction
and equipping of workshops for the five existing ecoles normales at Tunis, La
Marsa, Kairouan, Gafsa and Sfax. Specifically, the additions and equipment
would provide each school with: (i) 75 workshop places (15 in each of woodwork,
metalwork, basic construction, electricity and home economics); and (ii) agri-
cultural equipment for two groups of 30 students. These ecoles normales
would be used, on an interim basis, for the retraining/upgrading of the exist-
ing teaching force, to provide sufficient teachers competent to teach ITM
subjects in the primary schools, as required by the phased expansion of the
ITM program. They would also be used for the general upgrading of the teaching
force (para. 3.07), and for the retraining of presently qualified teachers
who have not had any exposure to practical subjects. The National Center for
Continuous Education at Korba (paras. 4.12-4.15) will also play a major role
in the retraining/upgrading program.
4.10      The basic objective is to ensure that by 1985 almost all primary
teachers will have been exposed during their retraining/upgrading to ITM
subjects. This would enhance the proper integration of the ITM concept with
the balance of the primary curriculum. Because the degree to which this in-
tegration will be achieved will be dependent upon changing the teachers'
attitudes towards manual work, it is important that the teacher-trainers and
the ITM subjects be given adequate status.



- 13 -
4.11      The government has agreed that recruitment of suitably qualified
teacher-trainers required for the ITM subjects would begin immediately and
be completed within one year of the Loan Agreement date, and, in addition,
that ITM would be given appropriate importance in relation to other subject
matter in evaluating trainees.
4.12      The National Center for Continuous Education at Korba is a unique
institution that provides a wide variety of seminars and courses ranging in
duration from 3 days to 1 year. They are intended to: (i) upgrade teaching
staff as well as principals, inspectors and administrators; (ii) introduce
new concepts to the field staff concerned with primary education; and (iii)
acquaint senior staff with field problems and new approaches.
4.13      This project item would finance the extensions, conversion and
equipment necessary to increase total enrollment capacity from 175 to 250.
This includes increasing boarding spaces from 150 to 175, 5 model workshops
(woodwork, electricity, basic construction, metalwork, home economics/nutri-
tion) and farm implements for 30 students.
4.14      Under the direction of the evaluation/curriculum development unit
which the government agrees to establish in the Department of Primary
Education, the Korba Center would also participate in the continuous eval-
uation and enrichment of the primary school curriculum, including the ITH
program. Conversely the unit would assist Korba staff to develop new and
suitable methods for adult education and literacy training.
Post-Primaire
4.15      The present school system does not provide any vehicle for the
education/training of the primary school leavers who do not proceed to
secondary education. Furthermore, as the vast majority of this immediate
target group, sixth grade school leavers, comprises children of the rural
and urban poor, the need is urgent to provide a new-type of education/
training that would: (i) provide as broad a spectrum of training choices
as is feasible and compatible with local demands; (ii) ensure that an
element of literacy and numeracy is provided in addition to skill training
for employment; (iii) relate the education/training content of the programs
to the government's planned integrated rural development schemes; and (iv)
coordinate the many out-of-school non-formal programs that now exist into
a coherent, mutually reinforcing set of activities.
4.16      The proposed post-primaire is a new pilot project designed to re-
spond to this urgent need. It represents such a complete departure from pre-
vious experience in Tunisia, which has hitherto relied on rigidly structured
formats and centrally designed academic curricula, that experimentation is
needed to determine the most suitable model to implement this approach.



- 14 -
4.17      The basic concept proposes to establish a network of activity
cE'nters that would cover a governorate. One regional center would be at the
governorate capital, and a number of satellite centers at the various
delegations (Glossary) would reach out to the poorest elements of society in
the small villages.
4.18      The regional center, in addition to providing education/training
as needed in its immediate vicinity, would include;  (i) the administration/
coordination of the various activities that would take place in the satellite
centers; (ii) relevant evaluation work; (iii) the development and administra-
tion of a tracer system to mairtain records of the subsequent employment of
the trainees; (iv) the analysis of field experience to design appropriate
corrective measures; and (v) a small graphics and audio-visual facility.
With its specialist staff and the information provided by the tracer system,
the regional center would provide back-stopping for the satellite centers, in
programming, syllabus, etc. The government agreed that a suitable tracer
system will be established within two years of the signinig of the Loan Agree-
merit.
4.19      Tle satellite centers would provide training for one or more activ-
ities (e.g. building trades, agriculture, handicrafts, textile, pottery,
fishing, hotel services, etc.), in varying formats and for periods ranging
from six months to two years. The courses in each satellite center would be
closely tied to the local needs of the governorate as established by its
integrated rural development program and the analysis of its employment
situation.
4.20      The Educational Content:  As the proposed intake would represent
the academically weakest sixth grade students, an intensive basic education
program is to be provided along with skill-training. The objective would be
to improve an understanding of primary school subject matter and not to in-
troduce - except marginally - additional material. This would ensure that
a post-primaire graduate would have the requisite basic skills in literacy
and numeracy for effective integration into productive society. The general
education content would be scaled according to the specific needs of each
group of trainees and the duration of their skill training, which would
determine the time over which the desired general education could be imparted.
Even though substantial variation would result, trainees in an 11 month train-
ing course would receive about 24 hours/week instruction in skill training,
and 6 hours/week in general education. The same general education facilities
would be used for groups of trainees with appropriate adjustments in their
respective training schedules.
4.2i      Future Growth:  If this experiment succeeds in producing trainees
who find suitable employment, it is expected that:  (i) the scope will be
broadened to provide remedial instruction in literacy and numeracy related
to skill training to primary school dropouts and the unschooled as well as
basic education and skill training to adults; and (ii) new fields not included
in the scope of this experiment, such as health training, may be integrated



- 15 -
in future schemes. The expansion and content of this program would be depen-
dent upon the continuous assessment of the employment prospects of the two
governorates and the other regions of Tunisia.
4.22      Choice of Governorates:  The two governorates of Kairouan (center
region) and Medenine (south retgion) were selected for this experimental out-
of-school post-primary program. These governorates represent the poorer and
less developed regions in the country; they possess relatively well articu-
lated plans for integrated rural development and are sufficiently different
in character and in administrative structure to enable the experiment to test
out two different administrative mechanisms for the management of post-
primaire.
4.23      Medenine is in the poor, largely desert south, with relatively
small clusters of inhabitants separated by substantial distances. Existing
training programs operated by the ONA, OTTEEFP, UNFT (Glossary) and the
Ministry of Agriculture have centered about these small village communities,
and remain relatively isolated and uncoordinated. These programs currently
have a capacity of 1,345 places and produce an annual output of 550 trainees
(excluding the activities of UNFT which are not employment oriented).
4.24      The basic concept to be applied in Medenine is to build upon and
strengthen what is already existing, complement it with a general education
component, and coordinate the entire set of activities; where programs are
already underway, instruction would continue in the buildings operated by
these institutions, but this instruction would be complemented and/or restruc-
tured where necessary to avoid duplication.
4.25      The project therefore proposes the establishment of a regional
center at Medenine and six satellite centers which would provide an addi-
tional 295 places and consolidate into a single network a total of 1,640
places for an annual output of 1,040 trainees (excluding the activities of
the UNFT). The project would finance the construction, remodelling and addi-
tional equipment necessary to achieve this capacity expansion of 295 places.
The estimated use factors are about 80% for all new facilities.
4.26      The inspector of primary education in the governorate would have
overall responsibility for the experiment. Hle would appoint a full-time
qualified staff member to oversee the coordination of the various programs,
ensuring that the education component is suitably synchronized with the
various skill training programs. The inspector would be assisted by a non-
formal education specialist trained under the fellowship component of the
project.  A steering committee comprising representatives of all interested
institutions (including the governorate administration) would guide the over-
all development of the experiment. The government agreed that this adminis-
trative organization would be established within six months of the signing
of the Loan Agreement.



- 16 -
4.27      In addition, the effectiveness of the ITM polye'aent and post-primaire
experiments should be evaluated continuously by the National Institute for
Educational Sciences (INSE) or a similarly qualified institution. The gov-
ernment agreed that (i) a suitably qualified institution would be contracted
within one year of the Loan Agreement date to undertake the above evaluations
and (ii) the terms of reference of these evaluation studies would be submitted
to the Bank for comments prior to execution. The results of the evaluations,
as they become available, would also be submitted to the Bank for comment.
4.28      Kairouan is in the agricultural center of Tunisia, and is more dense-
ly populated than Medenine, 50 vs 12.5 inhabitants per sq. km. The project
proposes to establish, with the assistance of the existing Office for Rural
Development (ORD), a regional center which would service the entire central
part of the governorate. Only two satellite centers are proposed: one in
Sbeikha and the other in Hladjeb, to serve the northern and southern parts of
the governorate respectively. The project would finance the construction,
furnishing and equiprnent of all three facilities, comprising 390 places with
an annual output of 530 trainees. Use factors would range between 75-85%.
4.29      Although the three Kairouan centers would be directly administered
by the inspector of primary education with the assistance of the ORD, the
same organizations as in Medenine (para. 4.23) would provide advice and
specialist staff required to run the post-primaire programs in the three
centers. The government agreed that these administrative arrangements would
be formnalized no later than six months after the signing of the Loan Agreement.
4.30      Specialists and Fellowships:  This project item is experimental,
with attendant risks. Moreover, the spirit of the experiment is alien to the
traditional approaches to education and training in Tunisia. To ensure that
the experiment would not be adversely affected during the critical initial
years this project item would include, on a shared basis with the Planning
Unit, 1 man-year of non-formal education specialist services, 1 man-year of
tracer system and evaluation specialist's services, and 3.5 man-years of
fellowships for overseas training of Tunisians to prepare them to supervise
the continuation and possible expansion of this program.
Technical Assistance (Annex 11)
4.31      Technical Assistance to the Planning Unit of the Ministry of Educa-
tion: Beginning with the appraisal of the Tunisia second education project
(Credit 94-TUN), which expressed serious concern over the inadequate staffing
and the limited effectiveness of the Planning Unit, a dialogue with the
governnent developed concerning the urgent need to expand and upgrade this
office. The governuient accordingly recognized this need and in August, 1971,
the Association, at the government's request, reallocated $0.41 million of
the proceeds of Credit 94-TUN to finance 12 man-years of specialist services
to assist a newly structured Planning Unit. Despite continuing difficulties
in staffing the Planning Unit and in obtaining qualified specialists, the
Planning Unit has made sufficient progress to justify continued support pro-
vided that steps are taken to appoint a full complement of qualified staff
(para 4.36).



- 17 -
4.32      The project would therefore finance the services of an 8 man team
of -xperts, for a total of 10.5 man-years to assist the Planning Unit to
examine, within the context of Tunisian society, various reform measures
which appear to have merit; these are described in Annex 7 1/ and include an
analysis of the relationships between education/training system and the job
market, including emigration of Tunisian labor. The objective of the study
would be to establish a viable employment policy for the Fifth Plan (1977-
1980), and to identify the necessary measures to make the education and train-
ing system responsive to the labor market's requirements. The study would be
an inter-ministerial effort, under the auspices of the Ministry of Education
and would utilize data and analyses prepared by the various ministries/
agencies.
4.33      The project would also include 34 man/months of fellowships for
the overseas training of Tunisian staff for the Planning Unit and provide 18
man-months of short-term consultancies for specialized assistance to the
planning, evaluation and implementation units.
4.34      The specialists provided in the technical assistance portion of this
project would also assist the staff of the Planning Unit to prepare the edu-
cation part of the next development plan (within a longer-term perspective).
This plan would identify specific priority areas/projects for investment in
the education sector, and would rely upon the results of the above studies.
4.35      The government agreed that:  (i) a detailed outline of each of the
Planning Unit's program of studies would be prepared within one year of the
signing of the Loan Agreement; (ii) Bank approval of these outlines would be
a condition of disbursement for the technical assistance services to the Plan-
ning Unit; and (iii) experts to be selected for the project's technical assist-
ance program (Annex 11) would be acceptable to the Bank and appointed under
terms and conditions agreeable to the Bank.
4.36      In order to improve the effectiveness of the proposed technical
assistance, the Ministry of Education should strengthen the Planning Unit,
which is still seriously understaffed, although the required positions have
been budgeted. The government agreed that the filling of all v'acancies in
the Planning Unit with qualified Tunisians would be a condition of disburse-
ment for the technical assistance component designated for the Planning Unit.
4.37      Architectural Design for a Possible Follow-up Project:  This project
item would provide $300,000 (50%) of the estimated cost of consultant archi-
tect fees to prepare technical studies and designs for a possible follow-up
project, suitable for external financing, to the point where working drawings
and detailed cost estimates would be available during project appraisal. This
action is recommended to encourage the Tunisian authorities to proceed with
the design stage in the absence of a Bank commitment to finance a possible
project, and is intended to reduce the time normally required for disburse-
ments of funds after Board approval. Project items to be designed would be
identified by subsequent Bank missions, and Government and Bank agreement on
the items to be appraised would precede the employment of consulting archi-
tects.
1/   Indicative listing.



- 18 -
Cost Estimates
4.38      The estimated cost and foreign exchange cci.iponentL cf th. varIDus
project items are summarized below:
% of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Baseline
Project Ttems.              -Tunisian Dinars 000-   ---US$ in millions---         Cost
ITM
Construction & equipping of
55 primary schools            2,915.1  1,012.6  3,927.7   7.1    2.5         9.6      53.6
Conversion & equipping of
312 classrooms into
156 ITHI workshops              202.7    203.7    406.4   0.5    0.5         1.0       5.6
Equipping of workshops,
210 ITMA, construction
and equipping of 22 ITMI
and 18 ITM-Polyval.ent          459.6    218.2    677.8   1.1    0.5         1.6       8.9
Teacher Training
Construction and equipping
of workshops in 5 ecoles
normales                        207.3    181.2    388.5   0.5    0.4         0.9       5.1
Expansion & equipping of
the National Center of
Continuous Education            213.2    100.3    313.5   0.5    0.3        0.8        4.5
Post-Primary Non-formal
Construction and Equipping
Medenine: regional center
and six satellite centers       404.8    178.3    583.1   1.0    0.4        1.4.       7.8
Kairouan: regional center
and two satellite centers       408.9    192.8    601.7   1.0    0.5        1.5        8.4
Technical Assistance
Experts, Fellowships              31.8    187.9    219.7   0.1    0.5        0.6        3.3
Architect's services
for possible follow-up
project                         100.0    100.0    200.0   0.2    0.3        0.5        2.8
Baseline cost                  4,943.4  2,375.0  7,318.4  12.0    5.9    17.9         100.0
Contingenci es
Physioal                         466.6    218.0    684.6   1.2    0.4        1.6
Price escalation               2,282.1    981.1  3,263.2   5.5    2.6        8.1
Sub-Total                     ?748.7  1,199.1 _3,947.S   b.7    3.0          9.7
Total Project Cost             7,692.1  3,574.1 11,266.2  18.7    8.9    27.6



- 19 -
4.39      Estimated costs by type of expenditure (Annex 12) are distributed
as follows: 70% for civil works; 8.0% for furniture; 12.0% for equipment;
4.5%, for professional fees; and 5.5% for teclnical assistance.  Estimated
civil works costs for the proposed project are based on unit prices of con-
tracts awarded recently by the goverument and those for furniture and equip-
ment that could be produced lucally are based on unit prices derived from a
survey of local manufacturers. For equipment to be procured from abroad,
costs are based on recent experience in international market prices. The
estimates have been adjusted to reflect the anticipated prices at the time
of negotiations of the Loan Agreement (May 1975).
4.40      The project cost includes a contingency allowance for unforeseen
physical increases equal to 10% for civil works, furniture and equipment and
5% for professional services and technical assistance (Annex 13). Price es-
calation contingencies have been calculated for the period beginning May 1975
(the scheduled tir.aing of negotiations) based on anticipated price increases of
8% for the remainder of 1975, 14% for the following year and 12% for the second,
third and fourth years of implementation for civil works, 6% for the remainder
of 1975, 10% for the following year and 8% for the second, third and fourth
years for equipment and furniture; 5% for the remainder of 1975, 10% for the
following year, and 8% for the second and third years for the technical as-
sistance; 8% for the remainder of 1975, 14% for the following year and 12%
for the second, third and fourth years for the professional services. The
annual price escalation estimate was applied to the portion of each type of
expenditure expected in the respective year. Consequently, during the
scheduled implementation period, price escalation, calculated on the project
cost plus physical contingencies would amount to about 46% for civil works,
34% for furniture and equipment, 23% for professional services and 26% for
technical assistance (Annex 13). Because of difficulties in forecasting
future differences, the same rates of price increase have been applied to both
foreign and local estimates. Accordingly, overall contingencies for price
increases are estimated at about 40.8% of base line costs plus physical con-
tingencies or 44.6% of the base line cost.
4.41      The estimated foreign exchange component assuming about 50% of the
contracts for supply of furniture are won by foreign firms is equivalent to
about US$8.9 million or about 32.2% of the total project cost. It was calculated
as follows: (i) civil works, 20%; (ii) furniture, 70% and equipment, 73%;
(iii) technical assistance, 85% for experts and 90% for fellowshins- and (iv)
architectural consultant services for a possible follow-up project, 50% (Annex l13
4.42      The annual recurrent costs generated by the institutions included
in the project would be about D 2.1 million, which represents only about 1.2%
of the projected public recurrent expenditure on education in 1985. As the
government has assigned high priority to these project institutions, these
recurrent costs will be met with no difficulty.



- 20 -
Financial Plan
4.43      The proposed Loan of US$8.9 million would finance 100% of the total
estimated foreign exchange, including the C.I.F. cost of furniture, assuming
that foreign firms would be awarded about 50% of the contracts. The
distribution by categories of expenditures would be as follows:
Government        Bank             Total
US$ million % US$ million % US$ million %
Civil works                        15.7     84      3.0      16      18.7    71.9
Furniture                           0.5     26      1.4      74       1.9     7.3
Equipment                           0.2      5      2.9      95       3.1    11.9
Consultant architects' fees         1.0    100      0.0      --       1.0     3.9
Technical assistance                0.0     --      0.7     100       0.7     2.7
Consultants' services for
possible follow-up project          0.3     50      0.3      50       0.6     2.3
Baseline cost (including
contingencies for price
increases)                      17.7      68      8.3      32      26.0   100.0
Physical contingencies              1.0     62      0.6      38       1.6
Total                              18.7     67.8   8.9       32.2   27.6
Implementation
4.44      In view of the advanced state of the second education project
(Credit 94-TUN) which is expected to be completed in June 1975, nearly all
implementation personnel have already been phased out. A Project Imple-
mentation Unit (PIU) to be responsible for coordinating and supervising imple-
mentation of this project would therefore need to be established. The PIU
would be placed under the Director of Primary Education who is also respon-
sible for the ecoles normales and the National Center for Continuous Education
at Korba. He would be assisted by two qualified full-time professional staff
dealing with physical (civil works and procurement) and technical assistance
administration matters respectively. In addition to its regular functions,
the Unit would, in coordination with participating agencies, collect data on
the progress of the educational aspects of the project; such data would be
submitted to the Bank in an appropriate form for review. The establishment
of the PIU under the directorate of Primary Education and the appointment of
two qualified full-time professional staff to assist the PIU Director was
agreed and would be a condition of effectiveness of the Loan.



- 21 -
4.45      In order to minimize PIU staff requirements, and to avoid duplica-
tion of services available from existing bodies within the Ministry, the
"Direction des Batiments et du Materiel" of the Ministry would provide as-
sistance to the Project Unit in the procurement of furniture and equipment
for the project. Similarly, the Ministry of Public Works would assist the
project unit in bid evaluation and award of contracts and site supervision
of construction.
4.46      The project schools, including the additions and alterations to
existing institutions, would be designed by consultant architects acceptable
to the Bank and appointed under terms and conditions agreeable to the Bank.
An adequate supply of qualified architects and engineers is available in
Tunisia to meet the needs of this particular project.
4.47      The sites for the proposed expansions at Korba and the ecoles
normales have been found suitable. The remainder of the sites, (65), would
be selected by the Ministry of Education in accordance with established
criteria, already agreed upon with the Bank. The government agreed that (i)
site selection would follow these established criteria; and (ii) sites would
be acquired prior to the scheduled commencement of construction (Annex 14).
4.48      Civil works contracts would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. Nevertheless,
it is expected that few foreign firms would submit bids because of the nature
of the project which calls for a large number of small, geographically dis-
persed items and because of the proven ability of the local construction
industry to undertake the type of construction envisaged for the project's
schools. Prefabrication of certain building components would be necessary
for the timely completion of the large number of the ITM workshops.
4.49      Detailed lists of furniture and equipment would be presented for
the Bank's review prior to procurement. Items would be grouped to the extent
possible to form sizeable packages to permit bulk procurement. Furniture and
equipment contracts would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding except for miscellaneous items or categories of items costing less
than $3,000 which may be procured on the basis of reasonable and competitive
local procedures, including price quotations from not less than three sup-
pliers; items so procured shall not exceed $330,000 for the total project.
For goods procured under i.c.b., local manufacturers of furniture and equip-
ment would be allowed a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of
custom duty applicable to competing imports or 15% of c.i.f. price, whichever
is lower. Bid comparisons would be in accordance with the Bank Guidelines on
the applicable domestic preferences in bid evaluation.
4.50      The project would be implemented over a period of about five years
after the signing of the Loan Agreement (Annex 14). Construction as well as
procurement and installation of equipment and furniture are expected to be
completed about four years after the signing of the loan. The guarantee
period and finalizing of disbursements and accounts would be completed by
the June 30, 1980 Closing Date.



- 22 -
Disbursemint (Annrex 1,5)
4.51      Disbursements would bc on the basis of:  (i) 100%, of the c.i.f.
cost for imported furniture and equipment; (ii) 95% of the ex-factory price
of locally procured furniture and equipmcnlt, (iii) 100% of the foreign expendi-
ture for tecinical assistance; (iv) 50%4 of the total expenditure of the
architect fees for technical studies and design work- related to a possible
follow-up project; and (v) about 16% of total expernditure for civil works.
These percentages would be adiustel as nrcessary in order to distribute dis-
bursements over the implei-entationi period.
V.  BE`.NEFITS
5.01      The project would assist the government in strengthening current
reforn programs and extending these to new education activities and target
groups as follows:
(i) in primary education, through the expansion of a major reform
program which would provide instruction in practical subjects
and relate school curricula to the local environment;
(ii) in teacher training, through the introduction of training in
practical subjects, in the restructuring of the curriculum,
and making possible the accelerated retraining/upgrading of
the teaching force;
(iii) in post-primaire education, t'lrough the introduction of a new
programs to enhance the emplovability of primarv school leavers,
increased access to more relevant education in two of the
poorer governorates, and the coordination of training programs
into a network responsive to local needs;
(iv) in education planning, through technical assistance (a) to
evaluate the effectiveness of the expanded primary education
reform measures, (b) to examine, within the context of the
local environment, the merits of other possible primary and
secondary level reforms, and (c) to study labor market demands
and wavs to make the education and training system more re-
sponsive.



- 23 -
VI   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following prin-
cipal points:
(i) an evaluation/cXtrriculum development unit would be estab-
lished within the Ministry of Education within one year of
the Loan Agreement date to monitor the expansion of the ITM
program and the further development of the primary school
curriculum (para. 4.08);
(ii)  a suitable tracer system would be established within two years
of the Loan Agreement date to cover the two post-primaire
schemes (para. 4.18);
(iii) an administrative arrangement to ensure the collaboration of
the OTTEEFP, UNFT, ONA, Ministry of Agriculture and other in-
terested parties in the two experimental post-primaire schemes
would be established within six months of the Loan Agreement
date (paras. 4.26 and 4.29);
(iv)  the INSE or a similarly qualified institution would be con-
tracted within one year of the Loan Agreement date to under-
take evaluations of the ITM-polyvalent and the post-primaire
experiments; the terms of reference for these studies would
be submitted to the Bank for comment prior to execution and
the results for review (para. 4.27);
6.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be the establishment
of a Project Implementation Unit and the appointment of two qualified full-
time professional staff to assist the PIU Director (para. 4.44).
6.03      Conditions of disbursement would be (i) for technical assistance
to the Planning Unit, Bank approval of the detailed outlines of each project
study item (para. 4.35), and the appointment of qualified Tunisians to all
vacant positions in the Ministry of Education's Planning Unit (para. 4.36)
and (ii) for consultant architect fees to prepare designs for a possible
follow-up project suitable for external financing, Bank agreement on project
components (para. 4.37).
6.04      The project is suitable as a basis for a Bank loan of US$8.9 million
equivalent to the Republic of Tunisia for a term of 25 years including a grace
period of 5 years.



1



ZI Il11L                                                                                                    ---y
41-1
(ll)
....              ac-cac
la                      Il
1973                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        lac
I ?: î                                1"4             la il
4Il
4  1               II 1               Ilc                Ilc             Zc                 Il  c
Ic,                                                                 '4
a,                     cc                                                                                                                                                  41
Il                 la
f.                                                                               3: U'c                                                                                                                                                                     111,                    '14                     141
Id-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   la
111                7'a                                                                                                                                                          la
Ih                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1            31 1                                             Il  A
a'..                      111.    14-                                                 1-                1.               I.4                il.,I              II
14: I 1                'Il                      Il I             IlI               1 1                I-I Il            14                 4.1              Il                il                Il                       a                       Il
lI7c                               Ilc                                        1               I:.                 I                  l4                4                 a                 Il                l'                       4
11,                                        1               I.ca               II: c              Il l              14                4                 1.                31                                              q:
I
'1I7c        1 al                   Il                                                                                                                  l^                                  a                 I
Il. I.11. iIIII.d.. .11                                                                   illa          1:Ic                  'Ic  l                  I.                 l               I.a                                                      6,              Il                                    53
f-l -                                      c"s,                                                                                   1.                6                     c            II-85              la                  -a               5                                    19
111-a
1 1 1                  88  1                                    33               Ïc                  I`:                                                                     la c              "Il
f- I                                                         Illc         1.1                                                              13               1.1                Il.                                   la                                                    la                     i;,                      li -
'alla        1.4
'l":                              ,,         l'.i                                                             11.1             I.                  2c.                64                 Il              14
II 1                   4I                                 4                                                        la
-11-  Il Il                                                                                                                                                  U,                                                     Îl,                'a              Il
I,                                                          Il Il Il I  ci 1 1                Il                                                                                                                                   i
l4                                                                                                                             4: Il1             11.1               il                 4I                1
3)                                                                                                     1 lc                  lac c                    I                                  4                  II I               il                 II                                  Il                14                     Il
,I)                                                      la:                                                                                                                                                                   ag                 Il                                                                                                    5;
-.1,                                                                                                                                                                              4                  11.4               14                 Il              Il                   1                                        1
4                la                Il                      la
4: '.                 . a                                        2c Il          1                   IÊM                                   li                                                    il                    ...
n                                                                                          4:c
1                 1
41 %l-,                               3)                 Ic.                                .1    41
6                                                                        41               1                  1                 Ic
Il.                                                                 l9ll         c.44                  11,                      Il                l'.               4.a1                                                    la              la                   4                I.
IM         13.ac                  illc                     Il                                 I                                                                          I                 II                II
26.                                                                 333                    ...                  8.8             2:7                                                                      la                                    20
27.                              l,,         lI 41                                           21I                1               1                  1                  41                                                                       Il                                                1
1)                                                                                                                                                                                       4:                                     I.
7c                                        I                  1               I,:I
11-. 4   6) -f                                                                                                                                                                              I- I               1.                 44               1                 Ic                 14                      II                        1
1171                                                                         la                                                                        I.               I                                    Il                       l
14                 'a              II                  1                'a                      il
6)          1-                    '-i'                                         I-          1jI,'1      4  I                                           5I               ii                  a,                                                     14              Il                   1               I4                      Il                     ...
117I         I:71                  l'Ic                     la la              1
5.                                                                                                                                                        'a                 la                                       '4
Il. 1I ... I.a.  f                                       4          1-1.                 1-                                  411
II                                                                                                                                   14
117I                                                                         li                                                     a                   I',                                Il                14                       I
gI          I:1
14     ,                                        76               I.                :,,l                                  I1                                Il                                   'a                      Il
la        al. .1 Z`    ,              a-                                              I c
1 11,                                   -I-               1. --l 1                         -I                                                         l'I                4I                                 l                                     Il               41                 :1                Il                                              14
.U,I-                                                                                      - l        l'U,1                                           Il                Il1              1-11               11,11              14                 Il1              l1                Il1             ...                      la1                           1
-d-I.               I.                              117'
c-l                        ,7c        I-                     4                                                                                                 l l                3              I                  Il
II- I    4':    I.- I                        117I         6.1                                            7I1                                                                                                         11                                  14
a                                                     i.:a               I1                I.              la                 la                14                     Il
lI                  J..                     Il.                 c:                                                                                                                                          4.1              911                                1                    1                14                     Il
1174                               4.                      "Î1               11,              I.'a              14
c.I.I..,
7:                              l,,I       14.1                                                                               4                                                        11,              Il
a                                           1LI                 1,14Il                      al               I
13                                                                                         Il               131                                  1                       4
al                                 1:3                                                                      a
la 1                   41c1                                                        1                  14                l'
56a:1
4     I-                                                            Ic                      la                                                                       119, 1.            19              îl, 1.             la                il1                     1
Ii",                   711                      Il                                1.1                1,                 Il                                 14                                   Il                     Il
197c       - I                    11,1                     Il                il               a  '                                  64                 "Il             Il                   31               la                     Il
1-           1:4                   Ilcc                     la               la               7:I                  a l              91                 II               1.                 -                 12
lall       II                      licc                     Il               Il                1.1                                                                      `                  41                Il                     Il
l          14                 II
':4                                                                              I                  Il .1                                                                                    Il                       4
1"I                                                                                             :4
197I       lI                     Il                       Ic                Il                                                     II                 Il              Il                                   Il                      Il
""           "'                   11,                      Il                il                                     :.9             l4                 13                M                IÎ
I-         aa 7                    Ilc                     Il                                                     1.1               41                 Il                                   1               18I
-1            4I                Il l             lII                                  11,                                                                                 411
13                               111I                               1.                                                                                                                                                                        Il                     Il
14:   1                                                          l',                         11,                                                   II:I                                  la              4                   4                Il                     1.                      Ila
la    ^                                       ':,',                                                                                                                                      II                                 1.
'-kt1                    19"          -                          I                  .1                 7.1                                la.,               Il                                 Il                                   14                      Il                       Il
a_                    17:1                   a".
Ic                 l 1             1. l1                 .4                                4"                1 I                1
1.1.a              II6                7.                la               la                 14
-cla
a c-I.-                                                                           54              Il                 59               la                   59                               Il                 la
(1- 12.1)            C-- )                                               (1-41)             C-11)                                       (c - 417)
Il               la               4.1             11:1                  'a                 41             la                                                            13                      41
l'               Il               4I               la I                 14                 la             la                                                                                     lI
1                :I            14.c                  46                 la              I                                                                                      a
la                      ......
Il                                                                                             (13)    M SM   Stastistical Yearbook



ANNEX 2
Page 1
THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM OF TUNISIA
A Detailed Review of Existing Programs, 1974
I. The Formal School System
1.        With the exception of pre-school education, the formal school sys-
tem is predominantly government operated and administered by the Ministry of
Education; Private schools enroll 9,123 children (1973/74) at primary level,
only about 1.2% of the national primary enrollment, 4,305 children in voca-
tional education and 8,351 in secondary courses, totalling about 7.5z of all
secondary enrollments.
Pre-School and Primary Schooling
2.        Pre-School:  No nationally organized system of pre-school education
exists. Most nursery schools are in cities, 50 in Tunis alone, under the
supervision of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. In 1973/74, 150 schools
enrolled 13,000 children (about 3% of the 3-6 year age-group).
3.        Primary Schooling is directed centrally by a department of the
Ministry of Education which embraces inspection and primary teacher training.
Local administration and inspection are assigned to governorate offices. In
1973/74, 2,255 primary schools (12,833 classrooms) enrolled some 865,800
pupils aged 5 to 15 years, corresponding to 88.3% of the 6 to 11 year olds.
Schools, usually well constructed, operate an overlapping double shift system.
In 1973/74, class-groups averaged 36 pupils, (67 pupils per classroom) and
41:1 pupil-teacher ratio.
4.        Qualitatively, the curriculum is predominantly literary and
bilingual, and consists of instruction in the '3 Rs', Arabic, French and a
little civics. All teaching is in Arabic in the first three grades with
French taught as a foreign language in the second and third grades. From
the fourth grade, arithmetic is taught in French, and three-fifths of the
teaching is in French. The use of French as a language of instruction poses
severe problems for children in rural areas who have little or no opportunity
to hear or converse in French outside the classroom. Though presently un-
willing to change the language of instruction from French to Arabic, the
government is making efforts to make schooling more relevant by closer rela-
tionship between curriculum and environment. The introduction to instruction
in manual work (ITM) aims at imbuing fifth and sixth grade pupils, atti-
tudinally and tactily, with positive, creative capacities for physical work,
and has been successful and popular with teachers, pupils and parents. It is
now in process of being widely disseminated (Annex 6 gives details of the ITM
experiment).



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Secondary Education
5.        Secondary education offers two basic options:
(i) entry to the 'long' course culminating in a technician
certificate (six technical grades) or baccalaureate (seven
academic grades); or
(ii) entry to the three grades of terminal vocational education
leading to employment.
Until 1970, about 40% of sixth grade primary graduates entered one or other
options of the secondary schools. In 1970/71, entry level was raised and
recruitment fell to 25% of sixth grade enrollments. Since then there has been
a gradual increase reaching 31% in 1972/73 (20% to the "long' course and 11%
to vocational education). In 1973/74, 47 schools offered a full secondary
'long' course, 19 offered vocational education alone, and 82 offered both
types. Total enrollment was 174,076 students (19.2 of 12 to 18 year olds)
with an average of 31 pupils per class and 29% as full boarders.
6.        The Tronc Commun (common cycle) course covers the first three grades
of the 'long' secondary course. The youngest and best academically enter the
tronc commun while successful candidates over 14 years old enter vocational
education. The curriculum is literacy with all instruction in French. Just
under 40% of the timetable is devoted to French and Arabic and 15% to mathe-
matics. Repeater and dropout rates are high, averaging 15% per grade for the
former and ranging from 8% to 16% for the latter in 1969-1973. It currently
takes five pupil/years to produce a graduate.
7.        Vocational Education enrollment in 1973/74 was 33,001 (26% girls).
Enrollments have been increasing steadily (21,174 in 1970/71). The average
age of pupils is high. In 1972/73, 15.7 years (first grade), 16.7 years
(second grade), 17.7 years (third grade). From the first year, pupils
specialize in one of 13 different options (for boys: mechanics, auto-
mechanics, electricity, woodwork, masonry, plumbing, leatherwork, printing
and bookbinding; for girls: needlework, weaving, hairdressing and dress-
making). About 40% of the time in all subjects is devoted to practical work.
Repeater and dropout rates are high and for the years 1969-1973 averaged 10%
per grade for the former and ranged from 5% to 25% for the latter with the
highest percentage in the final year. Enrollments vary significantly by
region. In 1973/74 they varied from 6% of the total secondary enrollments in
Kasserine to 37% and 32% respectively in Tunis Nord and Sfax. Since the cur-
rent year, (1974/75), a fourth year of studZ has been introduced in some
schools to enable successful students to enter the second cycle of the
secondary 'long' course. Three years ago, the duration of the vocational
course was four years.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.         'Long' Second Cycle offers a complex of specialized options divid-
ing into three main categories: technical diploma; arts and science bacca-
laureate; and teacher training.  (In addition some students enter one of the
agricultural secondary schools run by the Ministry of Agriculture.) The
technical secondary courses (three grades with a fourth for successful can-
didates going on to higher studies) fall into two main groups:  (i) economics
sub--divided into management and administration courses; and (ii) industrial
which after a year of common studies breaks into clerical, mechanical, topo-
graphy and civil engineering options. Baccalaureat courses (four years)
offer specialization in technical science, arts, economics (being phased
out), and science-math (this latter with an additional specialization in
either science or math in the final year).
9.         In 1973/74, of 75,636 students, 68% were in secondary baccalaureat
courses, 23% in technical secondary courses, 7% in teacher training colleges
and 2% in agricultural secondary schools. Of the baccalaureat options, 37.2%
were in arts, 31.3%' in science, 18% in math, 7.1% in economics and 6.4% in
technical science. 9,335 candidates sat the firal baccalaureat examination
and 4,595 passed (less than 50%). The average repeater and dropout rates
for years 1969-1973 were high, peaking in the fourth year at 30% and 25%
respectively.
Teacher Training
10.       Primary Teacher Training.  Teacher upgrading has high priority to
improve professional quality. Teachers are of one of three levels. lhe
fully qualified instituteurs have had a full secondary education, including
four years at an ecole normale and a fifth year of pedagogic training and
supervised practice. Moniteurs complete the tronc commun but have no peda-
gogic training. Moniteurs (second grade) have usually not completed the
tronc commun, were recruited at a period of rapid expansion and are now
being phased out. The policy is ultimately to upgrade all moniteurs to
instituteurs. In 1973/74 the primary teaching corps consisted of 10,734
instituteurs, 4,17:3 moniteurs and 4,675 moniteurs (second grade).
11.       Courses are purely academic for the first four years, pedagogical
training and practice teachirng is carried out in a fifth year, supervised
by a cadre of inspectors and councillors. Just over a third of the former
and just-under half of the latter are expatriates.
12.       Secondary Teacher Trainig.  The teacher cadre in 1972/73 consisted
of 7,153 teachers (32% expatriate). The absolute numbers of teachers :,as
doubled over the past decade maintaining a reliance on expatriate staff which
represented in 1965/66, 34% of the cadre). Teachers are trained in the ENS
(iligher Teacher Training College) or in the ENSET (Higher Technical Teacher
Training College), associated institutions of the University of Tunis. The
ENSET is relatively new. In 1972 it replaced ENPA (Higher Training College
for Assistant Professors) and trains technical teachers for secondary tech-
nical courses.  In 1972/73, 777 students were enrolled in three and four year



ANNEX 2
Page 4
courses including students originally enrolled in ENPA. There is no special
arrangement for training teachers for vocational schools. Pedagogical train-
ing occupies two periods per week in the third year and ten in the fourth
year. In 1972/73 of 60 full-time professors only 20% were Tunisians.
13.       The ENS, with a teaching staff of 30, trains teachers for all other
secondary level courses, for the primary teacher training colleges, inspec-
torate. The training course lasts four years and is predominantly academic
(specializations in math, physics-chemistry, natural science, Arabic, English,
French, philosophy, and history-geography). In the third year, an element of
psychopedagogy is introduced for three hours a week leading to certification
at the end of the year. Following certificatioi;, students are permitted to
enter the final fourth year which includes four months of supervised teaching
practice. In 1973/74, 629 students were enrolled in the ENS (165 female), a
more than fivefold increase since 1966/67. Students of ENSET and ENS receive
state subsidies (D 35 per month for the first and second year, and D 56 for
the third and fourth year, but pay D 10 per month for lodging and food); they
have an obligation to teach for six years.
Hi&her Education
14.       The institutions of higher learning include the faculties of the
University of Tunis and a variety of specialist colleges and institutes. They
include ENS and ENSET, ENIT (National Engineering College), ISG (Higher Insti-
tute of Management Training), CEFAG (School of Management), INAT (National
Agricultural Institute), and the Institute of Journalism.
15.       Enrollments in higher education reached 11,916 students (1973/74)
with 25% female, i.e. more than doubled since 1966/67. Recent enrollments
show a shift in emphasis, away from arts and law toward science. Between 1972/
73 and 1973/74 the proportion of total enrollments in arts dropped 8%.(33%
to 26%), law 2% (13% to 11%) while science enrollments increased by 4% (22%
to 26%) and medicine by 1% (9% to 10%). Courses vary in length: six years
medicine, five years arts and sciences, four years law and theology. Manage-
ment courses are two-year post-baccalaureat for middle level management
(CEFAG) and two-year post-degree courses for top level management (ISG).
Engineering courses at the ENIT last two years for upper-level technicians;
four years engineer-technicians and six years for engineers. In 1972/73
teaching staff totalled 884 (39% expatriates).
Il. Out-of-School Programs
Agricultural Education and Training
16.       The Ministry of Agriculture administers all agricultural education,
which is highly formalized. At the base of the system are 15 agricultural
training centers (Centres de Formation Professionelle Agricole), 13 (roughly
one per governorate) for male youths and two for girls, three additional



ANNEX 2
Page 5
centers run specialist courses. The centers run youth training courses,
short courses for adults and are intended to be for local agricultural
activities. Youth courses lasting two years are for 15 to 18 year olds who
have completed 6-8 grades of schooling and who will farm family land or be
eiployed in commercial agricultural enterprises. They are admitted after an
aptitude test and work for certification as skilled workers.    No statistics
are available on the numbers who find paid employment after the course. The
first year of study is general and the second reflects local farming needs
with 80% of the timetable in practical work. The total capacity for two year
courses is 2,750 student-places. In 1973/74 enrollment was 1,938 with 220
instructors.
17.       Short adult courses vary according to local needs and include co-
operative techniques, tractor driving and farm machinery maintenance. An
effort is being made to project the work of the centers into the local com-
maunity. Three specialized centers offer agricultural mechanics (three-year
course), animal husbandry (four to six month course) and irrigated cultiva-
tion (one to four week course). In 1973/74 the current cost for all centers
was D 733,920.
18.       Agricultural secondary schools accept into their four-year program
students who have completed nine years of schooling with good grades in math
and natural science. Seven schools cater for boys and one for girls. The
first year is general after which students specialize in agricultural science
or technical agriculture. During the final year, students are attached to
agricultural enterprises and farms. Successful students in agricultural
science gain a baccalaureat in agriculture, those taking technical agriculture,
a diploma. The latter are recruited into the government agricultural system
as "adjoints techniques" (technical assistants), and baccalaureat graduates
proceed to higher studies. The schools have a total capacity for 1,710
students with 1,588 students (1973/74) enrolled, including 440 students in
outside placement. Recently there has been difficulty in finding well-
qualified graduates from the tronc commun which has caused enrollments to
fall in 1972/73 to 1,430 students. The total budget for the schools (1973/
74) was D 735,500.
19.       Higher Agricultural Education and Training consists of INAT
(Institut National Agronomique de Tunisie), the School of Veterinary Science,
and three specialized institutes dealing with agricultural management, rural
development, irrigated cultivation, and animal husbandry. The INAT five-year
course leads to qualification as Agricultural Engineer. It includes two
years of general agriculture and engineering and a year of field training.
The School of Veterinary Science has a similar five-year structure. The
specialized institutes have two-year courses recruiting diplomates from
technical agriculture (agricultural secondary schools) and INAT first-year
completers. In 1973/74, 316 students attended INAT and 207 the specialized
institutes. INAT graduates may continue for a further two years for a post-
graduates diploma in agronomic engineering. The efficiency of the agricultural



ANNEX 2
Page 6
education/training system is not high. In 1972/73, the average dropout rates
were: CFPAs 40%, secondary schools 20%, special institutes 5% and the INAT
30%. Capacity was also underutilized: LNAT 35% below capacity, secondary
schools 15%, special institutes 55% and CFPAs 27%.
20.       The OTTEEFP is part of the Iiinistry of Social Affairs with multiple
funetions in labor and employment which include: (i) the formulation of
employment policy; (ii) collection of statistics; (iii) vocational training
for public and private industrial needs; (iv) job placement within Tunisia
and abroad; and (v) instructor training. It is managed by a Council with a
broad representation which includes the Ministries of Planning, Education and
Agriculture, the Employers Association (UTICA), the Trades Union (UGTT), the
Union of Agricultural Workers (UNAT), and the Union of Tunisian Women (UNFT).
Throughout the country it operates a network of labor offices and training
centers and has been most active ini urban areas, although every governorate
has a consultive body for regional vocational training and employment with
representation similar to that of the national council. The vocational
training activities include pre-apprenticeship training, apprenticeship, and
accelerated adult training and upgrading programs.
21.       Pre-apprenticeship training, based on a network of pre-apprenticeship
centers, is in process of being phased out as more emphasis is now being
placed on this in primary schools through the experimental ITM program. Until
1972, 49 centers catered for primary school completers between 14 and 17 years
(42 for boys and 7 for girls) 30 centers have now been converted to ITM use
and 14 specialize in hotel training. Enrollments numbered 3,500 (1973) of
which 2,900 (250 girls) were in basic industrial courses and 600 (80 girls)
in hotel courses. Courses last 6 to 11 months depending on the type of
preparation and are intended to prepare for apprenticeship. A further 11
month second cycle has been introduced in some trades (masonry, electricity,
textiles). About 20% of the timetable is devoted to general education. A
special on-the-job pre-apprenticeship scheme for the building industry
involves over 1,100 young workers (1973). In addition there are 50 centers
which run club activities (basic skills and literacy) catering for some 3,000
youngsters between 15 and 20 years.
22.       The apprenticeship system organized with industry is monitored
through 13 regional offices and a corps of 50 councillors. In 1973, there
were 11,539 apprentices listed for the three-year scheme. Dropout rates are
high, estimated at about 50%. Recently, a proposal has been adopted to
develop a system of Apprenticeship Hostels (Maison d'Apprenti) with facilities
for boarding and tuition in industrial theory.
23.       Adult training based on Accelerated Training Centers (CFPAs) caters
for 3,368 adults (1973/74) between 18 and 35 years in urban centers. Training
lasts 6 to 24 months depending on the trades which include: building, masonry,
carpentry, plumbing, metal work, electricity, auto-mechanics, and commercial
subjects.  Courses are graded at three levels:  semi-skilled worker, skilled
worker, and foreman-master craftsman with 2,044 adults enrolled in semi-
skilled, 1,224 in skilled and 100 in foreman-master craftsman courses.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
24.       The National Institute of Vocational Training and Upgrading at
Rades is the apex of the training system. Rades trains OTTEEFP instructors,
foremen and highly skilled workers for industry. Entrance requirements vary
but usually require over nine grades of schooling. Courses last six months
to two years. 340 trainees were enrolled in 1973.
ONA (Office National de l'Artizanat) - National Bureau of Handicraft
25.       ONA is under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and promotes handi-
craft training and production. It is active in all governorates and has
about 1,000 employees and 150 centers. Crafts fostered include: carpet-
making, copper work, furniture, jewelry, wrought-iron, leathercraft and bird
cages with 80% of activity being concentrated on carpet-making. In 1973,
12,000 workers were involved in production (80% female), of these, 25% were
enrolled in training usually lasting three years, although many stay in
production at the centers after training. Other ex-trainees continue working
at home and ONA helps them technically but does not buy their products.
Trainees receive a small stipend ranging from D 5.5 to D 13.5 per month.
Half of the total production is exported, mainly to Europe (France, Germany
and Switzerland). Sales in 1974 reached D 4 million.
Ministry of Social Affairs: Social Programs
26.       The Ministry has direct responsibility for a national social deve-
lopment program administered by a corps of social development officers
working through governorate to delegation levels and built on a network of
training centers. These include 13 regional social development centers (one
per governorate); 158 district centers (about one per delegation); 13 rural
training centers for girls (one per governorate). All centers are built and
equipped by the governorates, (running costs are met by the Ministry).
Social Development Centers run non-residential adult courses lasting about
a month and covering: basic education and literacy, health, child-care and
cookery. About 120,000 adults attend courses each year. The girls' centers
are residential and cater for 13 to 19 year old girls. Courses last five
months and include basic education and literacy, nutrition, child-care and
family life education.
27.       The National College of Social Work (ENSS) is responsible for staff
training at two levels: social work officers (assistants sociaux) and women
community organizer (animatrices). The officers attend a three-year resi-
dential course and are recruited after completion of secondary education.
Community organizers, recruited from girls with nine grades of schooling,
attend a two-year course. In 1973/74, 202 students were in residence, (163
officers, 139 community organizers). Dropouts rates are high; and about 40%
of all trainees from 1964 to 1973 dropped out.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
UNFT: (The National Union of Tunisian Women)
28.       The UNFT is an independent m vement founded in 1956 to assist in
the strengthening of women's position in society. The movement is firmly
rooted in coimnunity life in both urban and rural areas and is built up on
village sections with a committee structure going from village to delegation
and up to governorate and national level. The objectives include influencing
national decision-making and providing a national structure of self-help.
The movement receives support from the governing political party and help
with funding and maintains excellent relationships with the Ministries of
Education, Social Affairs and Health, and governorate and delegation
administrations. In 1973 there were 247 sections with 31,122 members.
29.       At delegation and governorate level, the movement has its own non-
residential centers where six-months courses are organized for unschooled
young girls of school age or of primary school dropouts. They are popular
with parents and include general basic education and literacy, needlework and
handicrafts.  In addition, a system of home visiting radiates from the
centers to assist wives with any domestic problems.
Other Programs
30.       The Ministry of Health trains public health and para-medical per-
sonnel in 14 centers, (nine run directly by the Ministry and five by the Red
Crescent, Armed Forces, Trade Unions, Blind, Nutrition). In 1973, enrollments
were 1,451 and the number of graduates 949. Entrants to be auxiliary nurses
are recruited from girls completing the tronc commun, and to be qualified
nurses from those with 11 years of schooling. Training lasts two years with
an additional year for specialized nurses. Two-thirds of the timetable is
devoted to practical work in hospitals.
31.       The Ministry of Cultural Affairs provides for cultural development
through a national system of cultural centers. There are 12 larger centers
(maisons de la culture) in each governorate main town and 93 smaller centers
(maisons du peuple) in larger villages. A network of national, governorate
and delegation cultural committees promote and coordinate cultural activities.
Teachers from local schools participate individually in these but there is no
direct liaison with the Ministry of Education or with ONA.
32.       Ministry of Youth and Sports supervises nursery schools and youth
clubs, and trains physical education teachers and sports organizers (including
those for the primary schools). The youth club program is run from 25 urban
youth centers ("maisons des jeunes" and foyers des jeunes") offering recrea-
tional and leisure activities.  The National Youth Training Center trains
youth workers and nursery school teachers. The full course (post-baccalaureat
level) lasts four years and produces about 40 graduates a year which is
insufficient for the needs of the service. The Ministry also runs the
National Institute of Sports and the Teacher Training College for School
Sports Instructors. The two institutions train about 300 students per year.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
33.       INP (National Institute of Production and Management) is an auto-
nomous organization supported by government industry and commerce to help
improve the efficiency, management and productivity of member organizations.
From 1966 to 1972, INP ran 168 seminars with 3,200 participants, carried out
147 studies on various aspects of management and production, and assisted
159 enterprises with advice and consultancies.



}UNISIA III
Structure of the Formala Educ-tin Syste.: 1973,;;
Vocatiocal Schools
Econonics,       eret                        CE. F.A.G.
Economics, Admxinistration                   Institute of Jouralisr
Topography
Teuhical Sciences
Arts
4 C7ivilrs Egeigroity
}E} {H3{ Technical ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sciences=
Entrance Examinations                                                          Science & Mathecatics
Secondary School
Certificate (Baccala.reat)                                                   I        Il!theatics
O        Vocational School Certificate *
*       Technician Certificate
Sp.ci.1 Preparatory Year                                 ~~~~~Te-cher Training, Primary
Special Preparatory Tear
frentering                                                                   4       5gher  ~. E.N.S.
Edocation
Being phased out                                                               Sec. Agricultural School.5                   I.N.A.T.
Age:   6        7                         1                      1216
1>0                                                          1,6      1,7                         19       2               2î
Pricmary                                                        Secondary                                       .             higherig
_ _ _.._ ._.._ .._ ._ ___   .
1/  Centre de Formation d'Assistants en Gestion (Management Training Center)
2/ Ecole Normale Superieur d'Enseignement Technique (Higher Technical Teacher Training College)
3/  Ecole Nationale d'lngenienus de Tunis (National Engineering College of Tunis)
4/ Ecole Normale Superieure (Secondary Teacher Training College)
5/ Nnder the Ministry of Agriculture
6/ Institut National Agronomique de Tucisie (National Agricultural Institute of Tunisia)



ANNEX 4
BudEeted Current Expenditure on Education and Training by
Agency, 1972-1974 (in Dinars) l/
Ministry                                   1972               1973               1974
1.  Education                            51,368,000       56,442,000         65,224,000
Percentage2/                           29.4%            27,1%              26.4%
2.  Other Ministries
- Prime Minister                        574,400          603,400            614,920
- Home Affairs                           59,000           59,000            155,400
- Defense                                  2/               3/                3/
- Planning             4/                24,600           24,600             24,600
- Economic Development-                 228,000          350,000            400,000
- Agriculture                         2,545,590        2,682,040          3,057,200
- Transport and Communication
Section  I Transport                342,300          348,300            403,300
Section II Fsts and
Telegraph'                           2/             38,000             38,000
- Cultural AffaJ's                         I/             90,000            122,000
- Public Health21i                      510,800          505,700            521,600
- Social Affairs
0.T.T.E.E.F.P.7/                  2,000,000        2,000,000          2,000,000
Other Organizations                 237,000          237,000            296,560
- Youth and Sports                      403,770          507,240            558,000
3.  National Social Security Fund./       2,000,000        2,000,000          2,000,000
Sub-total                      8,925,460        9,445,280          10,191,580
Percent4ge2/                            5.1%             4.5%               4.1%
Grand Total                   60,293,460       65,887,200          75,415,580
Percentage of the National
Operating Budget                     34.5%            31.6%              30.5%
1/ Except where indicated the source of data is from la loi de Finances pour les
gestions 1972, 1973 et 1974.
2/ Budget de l'Etat (Titre I).,
3/ Unavailable.
4/ Estimation made by the Department of Staff Training of the National Bureau of
Tourism.
Estimation made by officials of Department of Posts and Telegraphs.
. Training costs of the College of Nutrition are estimated at 30,000 D. by the
Management of the National Institute of Nutrition.
/ The proportion of the OTTEEFPs total budget spent on training is estimated to be
two tliirds.
8/ Estimate,
Source: Ministry of Education - Planning and Statistical Unit



TUNISIA III
THE EDUCATION PYRUnID,_ 1973-74 (Publiconl2
Lnro1 iment
Grades                                                                                                                  (Total)
19                                                                   75            lO                                        85
18                                                                  137            12                                       149i
17                                                                 1004           285                                     1,289
16                                                                 1579           443                                     2,022
0l5                                                                 1810           620                                     2,430
,14                                                                 4237 L_   13.09                                        5,546
;13     1"                                                              8334      3296                                    11,630
12                                                                   13475       4867                                    18,342
il    >                                                              15598       6391                                    21,989
10    o                                                              16538  723                                          23,775
9                                                                     3 908  9                                          33,656
8                                                                    20648  9399                                        30,+47
L 7                                                                   27730 13569                                         41,299
6                                                                                                   46582              132,539
5                     82239                                                                         49761              132,000
4                       82                                                                          51213              133,855 6
i 3    ,: |      95947                                                                                        61200   157,147
2       195080                                                                                                62831   157,911.
i 1     O,      >90937                                                                                        61377   152,334   
ma le                                                     Female



ANNEX 6
Page 1
The ITM Experiment ('Initiation au Travail Manual')
1.        In 1969, the government recognized that for some years to come six
years of schooling would be terminal for most youngsters and that there was
a need to effect a major reorientation of the primary school curriculum to
make it more relevant to the needs of those leaving school and preparing for
an adult life. It was also accepted that a practical orientation would be
valuable for those children continuing to secondary schooling either in the
vocational courses or in the general common cycle where it is intended there
should be a new emphasis on science and technological subjects.
2.        In 1970, the Ministry of Education in collaboration with the OTTEEFP,
established the objectives of the experiment as follows:
(i)  to open primary schools to the local environment;
(ii)  to sensitize older children to the problems they would be
facing in their future working life;
(iii) to change the attitudes of youngsters toward practical work
by demonstrating its usefulness and value;
(iv)  to imbue them with a motivation for technico-manual careers
by giving them an opportunity at school to execute simple
practical tasks; and
(v)  to facilitate the general development of tactile skills
in youngsters.
3.        The experiment began in 1971/72 and the OTTEEFP placed at the dis-
posal of the Ministry of Education 3 pre-apprenticeship training centers in
Tunis, Marsa and Nabeul with instructors to teach full-time, groups of twenty
pupils from the 5th and 6th grades of local schools. During the first year,
1,200 6th grade pupils participated with 400 pupils attending each center.
Children were divided into groups of twenty and each group was allotted two
hours of instruction a week. Each center could then cater for 60 children a
day and 300 a week.
4.        In 1972/73 the experiment was extended to eleven more OTTEEFP centers
making a total of fourteen centers (Tunis, 4; Nabeul, 3; Sousse, 2; and
Kairouan, Medenine, Kasserine, Beja and Bizerte 1 each), enrolling 5,600 pu-
pils, 300 to each center. During 1972/73 discussions began between the
Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Agriculture to explore the possibi-
lity of assistance to introduce ITA ('Initiation au Travail Agricole') agri-
cultural training into schools in the rural areas on the same basis as that
with the OTTEEFP. As a consequence eight ITA centers began to operate.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
5.        During 1973/74 a further sixteen OTTEEFP centers were incorporated
into the experiment and the number of agricultural centers was increased to
eleven, thus 9,000 pupils participated at OTTEEFP centers and 2,200 at agri-
cultural centers, totalling 11,200 pupils. Further refinements of ITM to
develop 'ITF', special programs for girls, and 'ITP' special programs for
fishing have been discussed but have not been implemented.  The government
now intends that ITM 'polyvalent' will replace these specialisms to permit
a great range of options and to ensure that maximum flexibility allows each
school to reflect local interest and needs. It is also intended that as far
as possible each school should have its own ITM facilities on site so that
time is not lost through children walking to centers from schools and that
there can be maximum integration of ITM with school educational life. When
facilities are provided to each school, OTTEEFP and agricultural centers will
revert to their previous management except in those cases where schools have
no land to develop their own on-site ITM facilities. Collaboration between
the three agencies will continue, however, especially for staff training and
curriculum development.
6.        The experiment has been assisted since 1971 with advice and equip-
ment provided by ILO 1/ and Unicef.  The current cost per head ITMI is D 7.9,
the cost per head for ITMA is less accurate, because owing to its infancy, it
cannot be calculated accurately, but may be reasonably estimated as about 25%
of the cost of ITMI.
7.        In 1973, an independent evaluation of the experiment was carried
out by the INSE, an educational research institution. The overall conclusion
was favorable toward ITM attributing an improvement in pupil interest in
practical work and ir, mathematics to the effects of ITM. A number of weak-
nesses were also identified and suggestions made for their correction. These
included the need to use equipment suitable to the physical capability of
the age-group (5th grade pupils in particular found difficulty using benches
and tools designed for older youths), the need for better integration between
ITM and the academic school curriculum, and the need to enhance the status
of ITM within the school system.  The evaluation noted the popularity of ITM,
however, with both teachers and pupils. The government's decision to
generalize ITM throughout the primary school system takes account of these
comments.
1/   ILO participated in the original concertualization of ITM as early as
1969.



ANNEX 7
Pronosed Subiects to be included in the Program of
Studies for the Ministry of Education Planning UJnit
The Ministry of Education Planning Unit, with technical
assistance financed by the project, would undertake a 3-year program of
studies, including:
(i)  a review of alternative strategies to expand access to basic
education for the 6-14 year old age-group taking into account
program organization, educational content, methods and costs;
(ii)  a review of options, including possible structural and
curriculum changes to improve the overall efficiency and relevance
of the total education system;
(iii)  a study of methods to improve the efficiency of the primary
school system;
(iv)  a general review of the exam-;nation/evaluation system;
(v)  a study of the merits and methods to introduce a science/technology
bias in the tronc commun;
(vi)  a study of possible reforms to improve the system of teacher
training including length of courses, content and entry qualifi-
cations;
(vii)  a review of the arts/science subject balance in upper secondary
education and the possibility of strengthening the importance
of science subjects;
(viii)  an examination of optimum means and scheduling to reduce reliance
on expatriate teachers in secondary education;
(ix)  a study of the interrelationship between the socio-cultural
environment and the overall development of the educational system
including nonformal aspects;
(x)  a study of the relationships between education, training and
employment to be carried out with the Ministry of Planning, the
-Ministry of Social Affairs and other relevant agencies.



breakdown of Operating Expenditures of Ministry of Education
by Education Level and Type of Expenditures, 1974
Level of
Education               
Type of   e                 Primary1/    Secondaryj2    Higher       Administration       Total
Expenditr3\
Distribution in thousands of dinars:
Personnel1                 24.632         23.713         5.033          1.006           54-383
Materit&s-                    855          1.560         3.023            335            5.773
Social°/                      872          1.515         3.681             42            6.110
TOTAL          26.359         26.788        11.737          1.382           66.266
Percentage distribution by level of education:
Personnel                  45,3           43,6           9,3            1,8              100
Materials                  14,8           27,0          52,4            5,8              100
Social                     14,3           24,8         60,2            0,7               100
TOTAL          39,8           40,4          17,7            2,1              100
Percentage distribution 9Y jtye of expenditures:
Personnel                  93,4           88,5          42,9           72,7               82,1
Materials                   3,2            5,8          25,8           24,2                8,
Social                      3,3            5,7         31,3            3,1                 9,
TOTAL         100            100           100            100                100
Notes: 1/ Including inspection.
2/ All types, including teacher training.
3/ Definitions are not absolutely accurate as the accounting system varies them
slightly from level to level.                                                                      >
4/ All wages and salaries.                                                                              J
i/ Textbooks, equipment and operation and maintenance.                                                  x
/ Stipends, boarding, etc.                                                                              C
Source: Ministry of Education, Financial Department.



ANNEX 9
Estimated Recurrent Expenditures for
Formal Schooling, 1985
r                                         Estimated                          Total Costs
Educational Level:  Grades             EnrollmentsL/  Unit Costs in    in '000s
in  QOOOs     %    1973 Dinars    1973 Dinars    %
Primary:         Grades 1-4             875.7     49.4        28 i         2n,519.6    2o6
Grades 5-6            343.h      19.h       34 i         11,675.6      9.8
Sub-Total      Grades 1-6           1,219.1     68.8         -           36,195.2    30.h
Ironc Commun:    Grades 7-9             378.L      21.3v     100           37,8ho.o    31 f9
Sub-Total      Grades 1-9           1,597.5     90.1         -           74,035.2    62,3
,Jecondary:      Grades 10-13           146.8       8.3      150           22,020.0    ih.5
Higher:           Grades l4+             24.0       1.3      875           21,000.0    17.7
1scoles Normales: Grades 14-15            4.9      0.3       350            1,715.0      1.5
Sub-Total      Grades 1h+              28.9      1o6         -           22,715.0    19.2
TOTAL                               1,773.2    100.0                    11,770.2   100.0
Estimated CeGlin'  Corresponding to 5.5% of GDFP    Low estimate:         137,h00.0  i15.7
High estixrete:      158,600.0   133,5
Notes:
j  Assumes:  (i) substantial improvements in efficiency at primary 'evel; (ii)
intake into primary equivalent to 100% of 6-year olds by 1985; (iii) basic
cycle extending to 9 years; (iv) upgrading of intake into Ecoles Normales to
post-baccalaureate level for a 1-year course + 1-year "stage" cycle; (v) 45%
of the graduates of 9th grade enter into secondary education, split 25% to
general and 20% to vocational; (vi) higher level enrollments will double to
24,000 by 1985, a vast part of the increase going to 6-13 grade level teacher
training.
/ Assumes an increase of 2 Dinars/pupil over the 1973 figure of 26 rinars due
to qualitative improvements.
3/ 6 Dinars/pupil over grades 1-h for ITM.
j  Somewhat lower than present costs (of 150 Dinar/pupil) which cover all types of
education grades 7-13 due to being lower part of cycle, and assumed predominant-
ly, if not conpletely, Tunisian teaching force.
Same cost as present due to reduction of expatria.te teachers and elimination of
Ecoles Normales and professional training (grades 7-9)O
/ Same costs as present excluiding social costs.
j Substantial increase over present level due to introduction of new post-
baccalaureate system.
j See Annex 10 for details.



Estimated G,D,P,,Government and Ministry of Education
Expenditures (in millions of Dinars), 1985
Percentage                 1/
Applied              1985
Observed Series                            to 1985       Low          High    3,
1970           1971          1972              1973            Figures 41   Estimate    Estimate
G.D.P.
At market prices (current
Dinars)                        746.9          816.7          1016.7            1068.3                 (100.0)     2497.5      2884.1
General Government               238.0 (31.9) 250.4 (29.1)   291.0 (28.6)    324.8 (30.4)               (31.0)      774.2       894.1
Current Expenditures         169.5 (22.7) 187.3 (21.8)   207.0 (20.4)    232.6 (21.8)                (21.0)      524.5       605.7
Capital Expenditures          68.5  (9.2)  63.1  (7.3)    84.0  (8.3)          92.2  (8.6)           (10.0)      249.8       288.4
Central Government               204.7 (27.4) 222.6 (25.8)   255.5 (25.1)    291.8 (27.3)               (26.5)      661.8       764.3
Current Expenditures         135.3 (18.1) 149.9 (17.4)   168.6 (16.6)    188,1 (17.6)                (17.5)      437.1       504.7
Capital Expenditures          69.4  (9.3)  72.7  (8.4)    86.9  (8.5)    103.7  (9.7)                 (9.0)      224.8       259.6
Ministry of Edu-ation             52.7  (7.1)  58.1  (6.7)    58.9  (5.8)          63.6  (6.0)           (6.5)      162.3        187.5
Current Expenditu:es          43.4  (5.8)  49.6  (5.8)    51.4  (5.1)          56.4  (5.3)            (5.5)      137.4       158.6
Capital Budget 5/              9.3 (1.25)   8.5  (1.0)        7.5  (0.7)        7.2  (0.7)            (1.0)       24.9        28.8
Source:  The Economic Development of Tunisia (Report No. 274a-TUN), Vol. V, Sections II and V.
(    ) = Percentages of G.D.P.
Notes: 1/ At 1973 prices.
2/ Assumes annual G.D.P. growth rates of 7.9% (73-76), 7.2% (77-80), 7.1% (81-85), or 7.35% for 1973-85.
3/ Assumes annual G.D.P. growth rates of 9.5% (73-76), 8.4% (77-80), 8.3% (81-85), or 8.65% for 1973-85.
4/ Figures derived largely from 1961-1973 time series.
5/ No figures for actual expenditures available.
I C



r            -~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~----------- 
- -     -   - - -- - -- - - -   -         -- - - -   - - - ,- O- - -     -
a,a.n -                --------                  ---            - -an---a-n--------
a  vn   w                      <a-iIa                         ooa9  
< °   g °   <     a t 1 n              o * o k,a   a n,e 1
»~               ~~                           n aaoo»s  B1 «r   °°-Xa'n    a
X wif n o 2       no.                -   g a      "  «00 g-            g
a----        ,       - -  -   -  -   -   - -n---a  ,      -. -        -   ---      --   -   -  -
-n    ---        --      i-     -  ----  -a    -       -n           -------a
ar              r                e  n  i - --- -   . -Oe0--
' n                           n      Oa  e  e     0rnnno   
&--                ------------e               -----           -  -  -  -u   -  ----B 
an                              ,aé   nn°0  t 
n -n     - - - -  -   -   -  -  -  -    -  -a-        -  -   -            -  -  -   -
-------   -- -------------          --------
a- -
---- -- -- --- - ---- ----   -    -   -  -     -  --    -    -  -    - -- U--
--------------                                    ---    --         ---- 000 -0 ---------- 00 0
---------------------------  ~        ~       ~ --  -- -   -
t~~~~~~~~~~~~--------  ------  ----------  ------



ANNEX 12
TUNISIA III
/1
Project Costs by Type of Expenditure
Local      Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign  Total  % of
---- Tunisian Dinars 000---   ---US$ in millions---  Total
Construction:
Academic & Communal
Facilities                 3,179.8      833.0   4,012.8    7.7    2.1    9.8        55.3
Boarding                       341.8       75.0      416.8    0.8    0.2    1.0         5.6
Staff Housing                   81.3       17.9       99.2    0.2    0.0    0.2         1.1
Site Development               460.0      100.0      560.0    1.2    0.2    1.4         8.0
Sub-Total                    4,062.9   1,025.9   5,088.8    9.9    2.5   12.4          70.0
Furniture                      159.2      398.2      557.4    0.4    1.0    1.4         8.0
Equipment                      262.5      663.0      925.5    0.6    1.6    2.2        12.0
Sub-Total                      421.7   1,061.2   1,482.9    1.0    2.6    3.6          20.0
Fees for Consultant
Architects:                    327.0       -         327.0    0.8       -     0.8       4.5
Technical Assistance:
Experts, Fellowships            31.8      187.9      219.7    0.1    0.5    0.6         2.7
Architect's services
for possible follow-
up project                   100.0      100.0      200.0    0.2    0.3    0.5         2.8
Sub-Total                      131.8      287.9      419.7    0.3    0.8    1.1         5.5
Project Cost
(excluding contingencies)  4,943.4   2,375.0   7,318.4   12.0    5.9   17.9    100.0
Contingencies                  2,748.7   1,199.1   3,947.8    6.7    3.0    9.7          54.2
Total Project Cost             7,692.1   3,574.1  11_266.2   18.7    8.9   27.6
Rate of Exchange:    1.0 TD = US$2.44
/1   Discrepancies in conversion to USDollars due to rounding.



IUIIISIAN 1Ii
Contingency Allowances
T e c h n i c a 1   A s s i s t i n c e                                         Total Contînguncies
/4                         Consultant                                           Consultants'  cens                              as 'Y, uf   as 7, of
Civil works_       F rnitore  -    jl'ip1!ent          AExperts   _                           Fe l owshfsi Fiol -up Project  Total Project Cost    piojccL  Projet Ct st
Local  Frein  Logal  Foreign  localLgorerei-n  Locaor eireigncalcao_!oreign   iocal  Forei&Li  Local  Forei)  Loca   Foegn  T.tal                               C: tci-
_  ,                                                 _               _   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~- _ __    __   _    _   _   _,       '
Contingenicies (as % of
project cost)
Unforeseen                        10       10       10        10       l0       lo         s       -          s           s              5         --       --
Price escalatio  /                45 '    45        34        34       34       34        23       _-       26        26       26       26         26       26
/2
Total                             59.5    59.5      47.4    47.4       47.4     47.4      29.1    --        32.3      32.3     32.3    32.3        26       2f
Project cost (without
contingencies)
Thousends T.D.              4,062.9 1,025.9    159.2   398.2   262.5   663.0   327.D    --                29.4   166.4        2.4   21.5        100.0  100.0  4,943.4  2,375.0  7,318.4
Millions US$                     9.9      2.5      0.4      1.0       0.6      1.6       0.3    --         0.1       0.4      0.0     0.1         0.2     0.3       12.0        5.9      17.9
'3
7. Foreign Exchange                        20                 70                73                 __                 85               90                  50                    73
Contingencies (amounts)
Unforeseen
Thousands T.D.                406.3   102.6       15.9    39.8    26.3    66.3         16.4    --          1.5       8.3      0.2     1.0        --      --        466.6     218.0      684.6        61.
Millions trs$                    1.0      0.2       0.1      0.1      0.1      0.I       0.0    --         0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0        --      --          1.2        0.4        1.6
Price escalation
Thousands T.lj.             ',011.1   507.8       59.5   148.9    98.6   247.5          77.8    --         8.4     45.0       0.7     5.9        26.0   26.0   2,282.1       981.1  3,263.2         2971.
Millions US$                ,             1.4       0.1    40.4       0.2      0.7       0.2    --         0.0       0.1      0.0     0.0         0.1     0.0       '55         2.6       8.T
Sub-Total                                                                                                                                                                   -
Thousands T.D.              2,417.4   610.4        75.4   188.7   124.9   313.8         94.2    --         9.9     53.3       0.9     6.9        26.0    26.0  2,748.7  ],199.1   3,947.8           357,      54.271
Millions US$                     5.9      1.6   _  0.2       0.5      0.3      0.8       0.2    --         0.0       0.1      0.0     0,0        0.1      0.0        6.7        3.(  __  9.7
71 Foreign Exchange                        20                 70                 73                __                 85               90                  50                    31
Total project cost
(with contingencies)
Thousands T.D.              6,480.3 1,636.3   234.6   586.9   387.4   976. 1'   421.2    --               39.3   219.7        3.3   28.4       126.0  125.0   7,692.1    ,N74.l 11,266.2
Millions US$                   15.1       4.1      0.6       1.5      0.9    _ 2.4       1.6     -         0.1       0.5      0.0     0.1         0.3     0.3       18.7     _ .9        27.6
% Foreign Exchange                         20                 7f)                73                --                85                90                  50                   32
Rate of exchange: US$1.00=0.244 T.D. D
Discrepancies in conversion to IlS$ due to rounding.
/1   Price escalation computed on the basis of following annmal increases:                     /2   Price escalaLioni computed oin 0le base in  e cost and physical ul,lforesecn.
1975    1976   1977   1978   1979                               /'   Average %, computed on thc basis of varying foreign exchange for different gronps
Civil Works               16!      14/.    1%     12°7    1227,                                   of eqiiipment.
& Prof.Services                                                                          /4   For uhe purposes of this table, iL has been assumied tlha  local biJders will win
Furniiure & Equipatent  127.    1071       87       87I     8%                                    about 507Z of the cantracrt  for supply (if furniturc.
Technicai Assistance      f371,   10!       8%      8 71    671



TUNISIA III
Iinplementation Schedule
__                  -_ I_                                   -_ g_-
|    Year       21 1                                    3                4               5                6
Quarters         1   2   3   41  5   6   7   8   9  10  11  12  13  14  15  16 17  18  19  20 21  22  23  24
1. Project                                                  I t
Implementation                                                                                   '    
Unit            RR-_OC________           
2.  Sites            00 00  +++ +  +++ +                                j                    t
3.  Consultant                                                                                      o I-iij t
Architects        R  R,   ..         ...  ...  ...  ...      ..       ..     .. **** * } * ...............    1 ; i   
I .Space Stan-       RR.1I.. 
dards, prel.
5.  Civil worlcs              XX    AX; X  XAT TTB ASC CCC CCC  CCC   CCCI CCCICC CGGUMG           *'
6. Furniiture      1PPP             A  API Pq PAT TTB ASM MMM IFM     III III III IIG     GG     I 
7. Equipment       |    |    |p AA- ]P ATTiTBB ASM MMM-  M IIIIIII IIIGGG  GG   jGGG-|
8. Technical Ass.       -                   RR|P  BRRI|RRB    I 1 R   I  I R         i
_______   __ _ _ _ _ __-                                                  i    ...-i     . 1    .  I L .  L ..    L_
Legend: O  Site Selection                                             A  Review and Approvals by IBRD
+  Survey of Sites                                           . Professional Services
V  Preliminary Studies for Civil Works                       P Designs, Master Lists and Costing
X  Complete Design Devlpmt., Outline Specif., Cost Anal.    P Final Designs and Bid Documents
X Final Designs of Civilî orks and Bid Documents             M 7Manufacturing
T  Invitation and Tenderiw- of Bids                          I Delivery and Installation
B  Bid Evaluation and Alirding of Contracts                  G  Guarantee and Liability Period/Closing Account
S  Signing of Contracts                                         Duration of Services
C  Construction Execution
R  Recruitment                                                                                                ! 
/1 Time is caculculted from da,Ge of signing the Loan L^^greement.
fr-



AINISIX 15
TUNISIA III
Estimated Schedule of Disbursemenfis
(US$ mIllionsT
AccWmlated        ____sbrsed
/1      Disbursements    Disbursements         Balance
Semester       Amourt      ,% AiouT%    Amount
First Year                                          8.90    100.0
1           0.25     2.8     0.25     2.8       8.65     97.2
2           0.25     2.8      0.50    5.6       8.140     94.4
Second Year
3           0.25     2.8      0.75    8.14      8.15      91.6
14          0.25     2.8      1.00    11.2      7.90      88.8
Third Yea:r
5           0.90    10.2      1.90    21.!t     7.00      78.6
6           1.88    21.1      3.78   142.5      5.12      57.C
Fcu.rth Yeeafr
7           2.36    26.5      6.1 1    69.0     2.76      31.0
8           1.51    17.0      7.65    86.0      1.25      114.0
FiIth Yez-r
9           0.80     9.0      8.145   95.0      0.L.5      5.0
10           0.09     1.0      8.514   96.o      0.36       4.0
Sixth Yenr
il           0.18    2.0       8.72    98.0      0.18       2.0
t2           0.18     2.0      8.90  100.0       0.00       0.0
/1   Begirming from Date of Loan Agreernent



--T ~ ~  ~     ~  ____________________________________________P                                                                       WffL
TUNISIA                                                                           mEo/TERr4N sAN  ïEA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
",.   .,  ,J  >?                        -        ;        0.,F   1,t /,"Bo..A,.d.7
mts                                                                             r¾t
0   z  0  1  /9 ' / / - KERKENNA~~~~~~~~~1 2
-       4               -~                                     GaoX, -  BoW >reA3>oda#
/   9c (/  »odjerouine     'bbo Ksor              r
-J                                                                    >                                                                   ISLANr)S
( 8 /  "      "s              >       L   __L</r-                              >,;                      i   72   --  JERN..  47852 
, Wt. Pors //f...                                  .biI,. 
TUNISIA                   l   _   _
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                             ,, + Iternarr,oal tIprbC  -Lun 
$  PRiM1NRY NCOHOONS ANi1 CONVERSIONS OF CLASSROOMS TO WOCKfIFf'N
A              F  R      i                               Res                             ITMA, TMI ArND FTM-P0 YVA0-,NrT WORKSHOPS (NOT SHOWN Ol M0P
î,,   &>_>   /   ~      Lates                       O   ECOLE NORMALES
1              -   -     Go,ueror,t   darfee             NATIONAL CENTER OF CWN INUOUS EDUC/.TION
L.  POST PRIMARY EXPERIMFNTAL PROME:CT  IEGIONAL CENTES             .
i,                                                  W~ t  -   7ht b .:nd7n2s vhnwns17 thls mpr e#.x Il  POST-PRIMARY EXPERIMENTAL PROJECT, SATELL TE CFNTE  i
vk   _    j  .             im~~f,,ph, e77emn {> trp,t-r  7 h t     JrO'E  ff/EOMID SUSEVIS ON OF GOOfVFRJCPATE5 Nor 5HOWL  * UNB 
_W-L   I-k                                    _ t0   .     _ TH_  MA_
t - - z ,   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _~~~~~1,   C    I    R PC   T   t, LF






Pip  Uû Qrren F
Page 1 of 3
TUNISIA III
Pro.ject Items and their Locations
Proiect Nunber                  Location                         Governora-te
I.  Primary Schools and bonversions of classrooms to workshops
1.01                    Tunis A-i                        Tunis North
1.02                    Tunis A-2                        Tunis North
i .03                   Tunis A-3                        TuniS North
1.04                    Tunis B-1                        Tunis North
1.05                    Tunis B-2                        Tuns Norti h
1.06                    Tunis B-3, Jebel Lahirar         Tunis North
1.07                    Tunis C-1                        Tinis Nor-th
1.08                    Tunis 0-2                        Tunis North
1.09                    Tunis C-3                        Tunis North
1.10                    Tunis C-4                        Tunis North
1.11                    Tunis C-5                        Tunis North
1.12                    Tunis                            Tunis South
1.13                    Bizerte-1                        Bizerte
1.14                    Bizerte-2                        Bizerte
1.15                    Mateur-1                         Bizerte
1.16                    Menzel Bourguiba-1               Bizerte
1i17                    Menzel Bourguiba                 Bizerte
1.18                    Beja-1                           Beja
1.19                    Beja-2                           Beja
1.20                    Jendouba-1                       Jendouba
1.21                    Bou Salem-1                      Jendouba
1.22                    Siliana-1                        Siliana*
1.23                    Kasserine-1                      Kasserine
1.24                    Sidi Bouzid-1                    Sidi Bouzid*
1.25                    Gafsa-1                          Gafsa
1.26                    Gafsa-2                          Gafsa
1.27                    Ksar Gafsa-1                     Gafsa
1.28                    Metlaoui-1                       Gafsa
1.29                    Redeyef-1                        Gafsa
1.30                    Moulares-1                       Gafsa
1.31                    Tatahouine-1                     Medenine
1.32                   Gabes-1                          Gabes
1.33                    Sfax A-1                         Sfax
1.34                    Sfax B-1                         Sfax
1.35                    Sfax B-2                         Sfax
1.36                    Kairouan-1                       Kairouan
1.37                    Kairouan-2                       Knirou2n
1.38                    Kairouan-2Y Kairouan
1.39                   PLqhdia- 1                        Mthdi?'
1.40                    Chabba-1l



Map Attachment
9age 2 of 3
Pro ec t, aiuber                  Location                          Governorate
1 .11                    Monastir-1                        Monastir*
i .142                   Moknine-1                         Monastir
1.)13                    Ksar Hellel-1                     Eoriw.,ir
1.44                     Jeremal-1                         Monastir
1.L5                     Hanr-nan-Sousse-1                 Sousse
1 .46                    Nabeul-1                          Nabeul
1 .147                   Nabeul-2                          Nabeul.
1.48                     Dar Zhnabane-1                    Nabeul
1.149                    Beni Khiar-1                      Nabeul
1.50                     Menzel Temimne-1                  Nabeul
1 .51                    Kelibia-1                         Nabeul
1.52                     Beni Khalled-1                    Nabeul
1 .`3                    Menzel Bou Zelfe-1                Nabeul
1 .54                    Soliman-1                         Nabeul
1 .5                     Hammamet-1                        Nabeui
II. ITr1  Workshops
2.010 through 2.106                                        Medenire
2.107 ftrough 2.210                                        Kairouan
III. ITMI Workshops
3.01 through 3.15                                          Medenine
3.16 through 3.22                                          Kairouan
IV.  ITM-polyvalent Workshops
4.01 through 14.18                                         Disburséd
throughout
the country
V. Ecoles Normales
5.01                     Tunis                             Tunis
5.o2                     La ISarsa                         Tunis
1 .03                    Kairouen                          Kairouan
5.04                     afsn                              GaLsa
5.c,5                    Sfax                              Sfax
VI.  Net,inna  Certe.r cf Coritiriuous Educptior
j.O1                                                        3Leul



Map Ajta~chment
Page 3 of 3
Pro.iect Nurriber                Location                         Governorate
VII.  Pos.-Primary ~Non-formal iEyDerimentfIl Project at IHIedenine
*                 7.01                     Medenine                         Medenine
7.02                    Alfja                            Medenine
7.03                    Zarzis                           MsIedenine
7 .0 4                  Ben Gardene                       lledenuirie
?.05                    Tatahoutine                      Medenine
7.06                    Beni Kheddache                   Medenine
7.07                    Jerba, Guellala                  Medenine
VIII.  Post-Primary Non-formal Experi.mental Project at Kairouan
8.01                    Kaîrouan                         Kairouan
8.02                    hladieb                          Kairo-uan
3.03                    Sbeikha                          Kairouan
x Governorartes crentced after recent subdi?lsion and not recorded on Trap.



