                                 Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR2308


         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                  (IDA-39120 IDA-44040 TF-53553)



                               ON A CREDIT

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.2 MILLION
                      (US$ 15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                AND THE ADDITIONAL FINANCING CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.5 MILLION
                      (US$ 15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)



                                     TO THE

                        REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN

                                 FOR THE

                      RURAL INVESTMENT PROJECT



                             September 27, 2012


Sustainable Development Department
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective May, 2012)

                   Currency Unit = Manat (AZN)
                        1 Manat = US$ 1.28
                        US$ 1 = Manat 0.78

                          FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1 - December 31

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADRA     Adventist Development and Relief Agency International
ASDAPS   Agency for Support of the Development of the Agricultural Private Sector
AZN      Azerbaijani Manat
AZRIP    Azerbaijan Rural Investment Project
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBO      Community-Based Organization
CDD      Community-Driven Development
CHF      Community Housing Foundation
CIS      Commonwealth of Independent States
CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Review
CPP      Community Participation Procurement
CQ       Consultants Qualification
EA       External Audit
EIRR     Economic Internal Rate of Return
ENPV     Economic Net Present Value
EU       European Union
FCR      Final Comprehensive Report (on beneficiary assessments studies)
FM       Financial Management
FMR      Financial Monitoring Report
IA       Internal Audit
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDPs     Internally Displaced People
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IMF      International Monetary Fund
IPA      Independent Procurement Audit
IS       International Shopping
LLC      Limited Liability Company
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS      Management Information System
MP       Micro-Project
MPC      Micro-Project Committee
MPP      Micro-Project Preparation
NC       National Shopping
NCB      National Competitive Bidding
NGO      Nongovernmental Organization
NPV      Net Present Value
OM       Operational Manual
O&M      Operations and Maintenance
PER      Public Expenditure Review
PMU      Project Management Unit
PM&E     Participatory Monitoring & Evaluation
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
POC      Promotion and Outreach Campaign
RGAC     Regional Grant Approval Committee
ROO      Regional Operational Offices
SA       Social Assessment
SAAC     State Agency on Agricultural Credits
SOE      Statement of Expenditure
SP       Service Provider
SPPRED   State Program on Poverty Reduction and Economic Development
SPSED    State Program on Socio-Economic Development of Regions
TA       Technical Assistance
TOR      Terms of Reference
USAID    United States Agency of International Development
WG       Working Group


                Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
             Country Director: Henry Kerali
               Sector Manager: Elisabeth Huybens
          Project Team Leader: Daniel P. Owen
            ICR Team Leaders: Kairat Nazhmidenov/Willem Zijp
                                    REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN
                                   RURAL INVESTMENT PROJECT



                                                          CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 23
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 23
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 27
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 28
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 29
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 30
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 37
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 42
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 44
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 61
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 62
  MAP IBRD No. 33365 ................................................................................................. 77
A. Basic Information
                                                                       Rural Investment
Country:                Azerbaijan              Project Name:
                                                                       Project (AZRIP)
                                                                       IDA-39120,IDA-
Project ID:             P076234                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                       44040,TF-53553
ICR Date:               03/12/2012              ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:              AZERBAIJAN
Original Total
                        XDR 10.20M              Disbursed Amount:      XDR 19.70M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 19.70M
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                            Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/25/2002     Effectiveness:          01/18/2005        01/18/2005
Appraisal:            03/29/2004     Restructuring(s):            -                 -
Approval:             06/03/2004     Mid-term Review:        10/30/2006        04/20/2007
                                     Closing:                03/31/2009        03/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Negligible to Low
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing        Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Highly Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                                 20                   20
Roads and highways                                                    20                   20
Sanitation                                                            20                   20
Sub-national government administration                                20                   20
Water supply                                                          20                   20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Decentralization                                                      17                   17
Infrastructure services for private sector development                17                   17
Participation and civic engagement                                    33                   33
Rural services and infrastructure                                     33                   33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Henry Kerali                         Donna M. Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:            Elisabeth Huybens                    Aleandre Marc
Project Team Leader:       Daniel P. Owen                       Julian Lampietti
ICR Team Leader:           Kairat Nazhmidenov
ICR Primary Author:        Kairat Nazhmidenov/Willem Zijp
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives


The original PDO, as reflected in the May 6, 2004 PAD was somewhat cumbersome, and
it largely focused on activities and outputs, rather than outcomes:

“The Project Development Objective is for households in rural communities completing
micro-project investments to improve living standards and increase the use of
infrastructure services. Micro-project investments in economic and social infrastructure
will be identified and selected using demand driven processes. Funded micro-projects
will be designed to increase access to and quality of rural economic and social
infrastructure (e.g. markets, roads, schools, clinics).?
The original PDO had three indicators:

       Increased household access to and use of local infrastructure
       Improved operation and maintenance of local infrastructure services
       Increased participation of project beneficiaries in investment decision making and
        implementation
After initial slowness, the project had picked up considerable pace, and the need for
Additional Finance (AF) was formulated by the Government. The rationale for AF made
a lot of sense. Scaling-up the operations was justified for the following reasons: (i) living
conditions in rural areas remain poor due to lack of employment opportunities and
infrastructure, and access to social services; (ii) AzRIP is one of the few vehicles
available to address rural needs as determined by the communities themselves; (iii)
demand from rural communities has been consistently strong; and (iv) the project benefits
from a high level of Government commitment.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
 
During the preparation of the AF, the wording of the PDO was simplified, and an
indicator was added, which necessitated Board approval. The proposed changes were
approved by the Board on March 3, 2008 as part of the approval of the Additional
Funding Paper, which clearly stated the simplified PDO wording:

“Improved living standards and increased use of infrastructure services for households
in rural communities completing micro-projects.?
This was certainly an improvement, and it ticks most of the boxes of the requirements of
a good quality PDO1. It also re-stated the four PDO indicators that form the basis of the
Results Framework Analysis:

       Increased household living standards, measured by percentage of beneficiary
        households surveyed reporting: (a) satisfaction with the selected priority; (b)
        improved living standards as a result of the micro-projects
       Increased use of infrastructure services
       Increased participation of project beneficiaries in community decision making
       The percentage of communities that successfully submit micro-projects (as
        determined by approval)
The Additional Financing allowed the project to:

       Reach approximately 700,000 additional beneficiaries in 24 new districts, while
        continuing operations in the autonomous region of Nakhchivan, and support an
        additional 250 MPs;
       Increase the MP ceiling from US$ 50,000 US$ 85,000, to allow for cost increases,
        and raise the maximum cost per beneficiary from US$ 18 to US$22 for the same
        reason, as these increases are equivalent to the inflation index since implementation
        began;
       Lower the cash contribution from 5% to 2%, while leaving the minimum 10%
        beneficiary contribution intact to allow more of the cash-strapped poor to participate;
        and
       Fund the operating costs of AzRIP, staff training, and financial management, while
        improving financing procedures for micro-projects to avoid delays, ensure
        transparency, minimize external interference, and prevent any waste of funds.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

The project has four PDO indicators to measure and monitor progress to the PDO. It
delivered on all four, surpassing all targets:




1
    A good PDO: 
            Identifies the primary target group affected by the project. 
            Specifies what changes will be experienced by the target group, either in terms of their standard of living or in their 
             behavior. 
            Sets realistic targets for which the Government and the Bank will be held mutually accountable. 
            Does not encompass outcomes that are beyond the scope of the specific project (e.g., medium?term CAS objectives). 
            Does not restate the project components or expected outputs. 
   PDO indicators           Ach’ts    Target     Source                      Additional Supporting evidence 
1 a. Increased                95%     80=85%    FCR 2011
household living                                            Communities are satisfied with the choices they made, as evidenced 
standards:  (a)                                             by: (i) 717 rural communities participated in an inclusive, intense, and 
satisfaction with the                                       innovative micro project cycle; (ii) high satisfaction rates with the 
selected priority                                           advice from consultants; (iii) the strong demand for projects and the 
                                                            willingness to contribute 10% of overall costs; and (iv) about 650 
                                                            communities invested their time and energy to avail:  
                                                                  the skills to set priorities in a democratic and inclusive manner;  
                                                                  an understanding of the technical options to address their 
                                                                   priority problems; 
                                                                  economic insights to weigh those options; 
                                                                  a proven commitment  to collective action; 
                                                                  the proven determination to maintain their assets, and  
                                                                  networking habits to pro?actively seek and share knowledge 
1 (b) improved living         90%        80%    M&E         Living standards have improved, as evidenced by: 
standards as a result of                        reports           financial situations of beneficiaries have slightly improved, with 
the micro?projects                              and FCR,           the rate higher in project villages than in control villages;  
                                                2011              the rate of income increase in the project villages is higher than 
                                                                   in the control villages; 
                                                                  poverty is slightly lower in project villages; and 
                                                                  Many examples (see text) of  improved access, use, and 
                                                                   satisfaction with the new infrastructure 
2. Increased use of             43        20    FCR 2011    The communities have greater access to infrastructure, and use has 
infrastructure services                                     more than doubled, which is not surprising considering the time 
                                                            saved: 
                                                                  between a quarter and a third of the time going to a primary 
                                                                   school, a secondary school, or a clinic; 
                                                                  about half the time needed going to a hospital, a transportation 
                                                                   hub, or a market; and 
                                                                  three quarters of time saved when fetching water! 
                                                            The infrastructure is being very well maintained, and well over 90% is 
                                                            still operational, with some communities hiring third parties to 
                                                            oversee repairs and maintenance.  
                                                            Participating communities are linked to each other, to government 
                                                            officials and to private sector operators through a variety of media, 
                                                            including for instance rural radio, and regular bus visits from one 
                                                            community to the other.  
3. Increased                    54        20    FCR 2011    The project had real impact on the 650 communities served.  The 
participation of project                                    project served as a vehicle to: 
beneficiaries in                                                  Enable, by training, networking, joint learning, multi?media 
community decision                                                 campaigns;  
making                                                            Empower, by peer learning, inclusive decision making, collective 
                                                                   bargaining, an economic leadership program (including a very 
                                                                   successful women entrepreneur program) and a simple 
                                                                   economic analysis to enable communities to make informed 
                                                                   decisions about infrastructure investments; and 
                                                                  Enforce, by continuous improvements in the financial 
                                                                   management and procurement practices, a grievance procedure 
                                                                   under development, a radical introduction of transparency in all 
                                                                   project?supported transactions 
4. The percentage of           100        80    AzRip             The public at large was made aware of the project during a 
communities that                                M&E                media campaign that encouraged them to participate, including  
successfully submit                                                150,895 people directly informed of the project.  
micro?projects                                                    A precise, and continually updated Operations Manual. The 
                                                                   PMU proposed improvements in English, and after the Bank’s 
                                                                   no?objection it was translated into Azeri. 
                                                                  The projected fostered a learning?by?doing approach and was 
                                                                   adaptable to making program adjustments along the way. 
                                                                  Rejected proposals get another chance, with lots of support and 
                                                                   training. 
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

The project also formulated six intermediate outcomes, with targets. The project
delivered on all six, but missed one of the targets by a small margin:

Intermediate Outcomes                Achievements   Target         Observations

Number of micro?projects                     642    600?650        The actual breakdown of micro?projects by kind of investment is 
(breakdown by kind of                                              as follows: road rehabilitation ? 52%, potable water ? 17%, 
investment)                                                        electricity ? 10%, irrigation ? 6%, health clinics ? 5%, drainage ? 5%, 
                                                                   schools ? 4%, community renovation ? 1% and pedestrian bridges 
                                                                   ? 0.3%. 
Number of beneficiaries for all         1,764,822   1,750,000?     The actual breakdown of the beneficiaries number by kind of 
micro?projects and by kind of                       2,000,000      investment is as follows: road rehabilitation ? 59%, potable water 
investment;                                                        ? 13%, health clinics ? 5%, irrigation ? 5%, electricity ? 6%, schools ? 
                                                                   5%, drainage ? 5%, community renovation ? 1% and  pedestrian 
                                                                   bridges ? 0.2%. 
Share of beneficiaries that are               98              95
satisfied or very satisfied with 
the infrastructure service 
quality 
Number of trainees of                      12,575   10,000?        The actual breakdown is as follows: community trainings ? 51%, 
capacity building activities by                     12,000         cross visits 18%, inter?zone cross visits sessions ? 4%, 
kind of activity                                                   workshops/conferences ? 7% and seminars ? 20%. 
Share of capacity building                   98%    80?85%         42% of trainees reported that they are satisfied with provided 
trainees that are satisfied or                                     capacity building exercises 56% were very satisfied. 
very satisfied with the 
capacity building exercises 
Share of capacity building                   76%    80?85%         This is the only indicator where the target was not quite 
trainees who indicate having                                       achieved, although it is very encouraging to note that three out 
used their newly acquired                                          of four trainees actually use their newly gained knowledge.   
knowledge often or very often 




G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                                                   Actual
             Date ISR
 No.                                           DO                                   IP                         Disbursements
             Archived
                                                                                                               (USD millions)
   1        06/16/2004                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                                      0.00
   2        12/17/2004                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                                      0.00
                                         Moderately                      Moderately
   3        05/27/2005                                                                                                          0.50
                                       Unsatisfactory                  Unsatisfactory
   4        10/31/2005              Moderately Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                                    0.90
   5        01/04/2007              Moderately Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                                    3.60
   6        01/15/2007                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                                           3.60
   7        08/30/2007                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                                           7.95
   8        11/20/2007                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                                          10.16
   9        01/14/2008                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                                          11.01
  10        08/27/2008                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                                          15.52
  11        12/19/2008                  Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                                          15.77
 12    07/16/2009       Satisfactory          Satisfactory       15.78
 13    02/08/2010       Satisfactory          Satisfactory       19.55
 14    04/21/2010       Satisfactory          Satisfactory       20.96
 15    08/29/2010       Satisfactory          Satisfactory       26.15
 16    10/17/2010       Satisfactory          Satisfactory       26.15
 17    05/17/2011       Satisfactory       Highly Satisfactory   28.57
 18    01/27/2012    Highly Satisfactory   Highly Satisfactory   29.43
 19    04/13/2012    Highly Satisfactory   Highly Satisfactory   30.45


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
 
During the 1990s, Azerbaijan experienced many of the same challenges as other CIS
transition economies including economic decline, deterioration in state services and
infrastructure (particularly in rural areas), and a rise in poverty. The dismantlement of the
state and collective farms once responsible for operating agricultural supply chains and
maintaining infrastructure in rural areas, coupled with inadequate resource allocation, led
to a rapid decline in rural services and infrastructure. This resulted in a decrease in the
living standards of the four million people (50 percent of the population) in rural areas. A
critical challenge in Azerbaijan is to channel the dividends of oil-driven economic growth
– mostly concentrated in Baku – to the rural areas to improve access to social services
and conditions for more productive use of the agricultural potential, because failing
infrastructure, such as bad roads, power outages, and unheated schools, imposes high
transaction costs on rural households.

The State Program on Poverty Reduction and Economic Development for 2003-2005
(SPPRED) supported a comprehensive regional development policy designed to reduce
disparities between Baku and the rural regions. Next, the State Program on Socio-
Economic Development of Regions for 2004-2008 (SPSED) called for comprehensive
regional development measures that included improvement of infrastructure and utility
service provision, especially in rural areas and small districts. Significantly, the program
emphasized the need to increase local responsibility in managing infrastructure and utility
service delivery, as large, government funded and implemented infrastructure programs
were no longer considered an option.

As pointed out in the CPS for FY07- 10, poverty in Azerbaijan is now declining rapidly,
however most improvements in welfare have been concentrated in the capital, Baku.
Outside of Baku, the lack of employment and assets, as well as poor access to social
services are driving an intense rural-urban migration, while the lack of infrastructure
discourages investment and commercial activity. The fit between the country’s problems,
the GoA’s State Programs and the WB CPS are fully aligned, and there was, and remains
solid support for the AzRIP project. The project’s baseline survey revealed the following
key problems in both project and control villages, and its design aims to address all
priorities:

   Bad or inadequate schools and kindergartens
   Water provision problems (inadequate and infrequent)
   Bad road access
   Inadequacy of healthcare
   Marketing problems for the agricultural products




                                             1
1.2    Main Beneficiaries


The total number of beneficiaries of the project was over 1,760,000 people. The project
targeted the rural communities including clusters of smaller communities (greater than
1,000 and less than 10,000 people) in three economic zones, the lowlands of Shirvan,
Mugan-Salyan, and Nakhchivan. As mentioned earlier, the AF allowed the minimum size
for the targeted rural communities down to 600 people for Nakhchivan, because over half
of the villages in this region are smaller than the previous minimum (i.e. 1000 people).
Community organizations were to be empowered to identify, design, operate and
maintain investments based on their needs and priorities. The local and central
government were expected to have increased exposure to decentralized decision-making
and mechanisms that encourage transparency and accountability.

1.3    Original Components (as approved)

The project included three components: (i) infrastructure; (ii) capacity enhancement; and
(iii) project management.

Component A - Infrastructure. This component aimed to provide grants for
approximately 350-450 rural infrastructure micro-projects. It included the identification,
design and construction or rehabilitation of rural infrastructure, based on the priority
needs identified by communities. Potential investments included basic economic (e.g.,
rehabilitation of secondary roads, water systems, electricity transformers) and social (e.g.
schools and health clinics) infrastructure. It was planned that the average size of micro-
projects would be US$ 35,000 and any micro-projects over US$ 50,000 would require
prior review by IDA and the project Working Group.

The recipient was the organization in the community that executes the micro-project.
Eligible recipients were municipalities; community based organizations (CBOs) that are
registered as legal entities, which include NGOs; or any other associations and
organizations that IDA and the Borrower agree upon. It was expected that the
investments would be identified in consultation with communities, prioritized through
local participatory planning processes, and appraised according to technical, financial,
social, economic, institutional, and environmental criteria set out in the Operational
Manual (OM). In addition, the recipients would be responsible for all phases of the
micro-project, including preparation of the proposal, contracting, implementation, and
operations and maintenance (O&M), while the local NGOs and CBOs or other service
providers (SPs) would provide support. It was also envisaged that the training needed at
the community level would be built into the micro-project cycle and financed by
Component B - Capacity Enhancement.

Component B - Capacity Enhancement. This component funded training and technical
assistance for project implementation.

Sub-component B-1 helped to create the required capacity of involved local stakeholders,
e.g. communities, recipients, and Regional Grant Approval Committees (RGACs). In the

                                             2
community mobilization phase, the communities and recipients were assisted in all
aspects of micro-project development including: (i) completing an inclusive problem
analysis; (ii) a needs assessments; (iii) a democratic process of prioritization; and (iv) the
preparation of an actual proposal while maintaining wide ownership and commitment.
Recipients received training in contracting, procurement, financial management, and
participatory monitoring and evaluation. It was planned that this sub-component also
would comprise a broad dissemination campaign targeting the public in the project areas,
and would including rayon and central government authorities.

Sub-component B-2 provided financing to the long-term professional staff and the short-
term contract staff in the Regional Operations Offices (ROOs) in order to build the
capacity of State Agency on Agricultural Credits (SAAC) 2 and the government more
generally to implement Community-Driven Development (CDD)-type rural investment
projects, in line with the Government's view of AZRIP as a model to be extended
throughout the country. This sub-component was to develop the capacity of the PMU and
three ROOs to appraise, supervise, monitor and evaluate the micro-projects (including
participatory M&E). The capacity enhancement would take place through management,
planning, on-the-job and other training, consultations, lessons-learned workshops, and
use of resource materials.

Component C - Project Management. This component financed the administrative and
operational project implementation and management costs, including hiring of PMU
professional staff and PMU and ROO support staff, travel costs and per diems, and
support to the RGACs.

1.4     Revised Components

The original components were not revised.

1.5     Other significant changes

As mentioned in Section F. Results Framework Analysis, above, there were several
changes made during implementation of the original AzRIP and the subsequent AzRIP
Additional Financing. In summary:

Scope. An additional 700,000 people in 24 new districts with 250 micro projects.

Micro-Projects. Price increases necessitated the ceiling to be raised to US$ 85,000 from
US$50,000, and the maximum cost per beneficiary from US$ 18 to US$ 22.

Beneficiary contribution. The minimum 10 percent beneficiary contribution remained,
although only two percent was required to be in cash.


2
 At the time of PAD preparation, the agency had a different name –the Agency for Support of the
Development of the Agricultural Private Sector (ASDAPS).


                                                   3
Financing procedure. Make direct payments to contractors, rather than through Grant
Recipients, to reduce the risk of fraud and corruption. However, the decision making and
contractor selection processes remain under the direct control of the communities through
signing of tripartite agreements between the communities, PMU and relevant
municipalities.

Technical design. The PMU started hiring --on a competitive basis-- local private design
companies. The design companies supported community engineers in designing MPs,
supervised vendors for the implementation of MPs, developed suitable maintenance plans
and helped communities with implementation. All these resulted in a significant increase
in technical quality of the implemented MPs.



2. Key Factors Affecting and Outcomes

2.1 Learning from doing, a best practice example

One of the key characteristics of this project has been, and continues to be its focus on
learning, applying the lessons, and learning again. Lessons were learned and applied
during various stages of the project, starting during preparation, throughout
implementation and spilling over into the follow-up AzRIP 2. Most important, lessons
were learned and applied, jointly.

     Time frame                                      Lessons learned and applied
Preparation               The design was based on global good practice, and adapted to the country, using
                          lessons from four pilot MPs on infrastructure development that the World Bank
                          and the Eurasia Foundation supported earlier. In particular, the strategy of
                          involving key stakeholders in MP design and providing technical assistance to
                          communities because capacity to implement community-driven projects in
                          Azerbaijan was low. An innovative model was tested in which both the
                          community and the municipality worked together on MP implementation. A local
                          NGO facilitated the process throughout, beginning with assisting the
                          municipalities to mobilize communities, set up MP committees, and provide
                          training to both the committees and the municipalities. Local communities were
                          electing MP committee members who, along with the municipalities, were
                          accountable to open decision-making.
After the first year of   The piloting under the project helped work out the MP implementation process
implementation            and provide hands-on training to the PMU and ROO staff in Operational Manual
                          procedures. QAG remarked: “The Team is to be commended for efforts made
                          during implementation to fine tune design and adapt to country reality?. The
                          early teething problems allowed the opportunity to streamline the flow of funds,
                          address organizational challenges, make institutional refinements, and improve
                          financial management
Mid Term                  The MTR helped draw five lessons that were immediately applied:
Review                     A Technical Audit, commissioned by the MTR, recommended to improve
                               technical quality of MPs through: (i) improving the documentation; (ii)
                               hiring engineering design companies to support the communities in design
                               and preparation of proposals; (iii) elevate design standards to existing


                                                    4
                              national standards.
                             Project sustainability was unlikely without follow-up. In subsequent
                              monitoring, field visits, evaluation of findings, assistance in mitigating
                              problems, and funding for remedial measures were routinely included.
                          The environmental guidelines and training manuals were revised and used to
                              train ROO staff to assign environmental categories appropriately and advise
                              beneficiary communities, in compliance with National and WB requirements
                          The different technical solutions were not always costed out, and thus not
                             considered when communities selected their priorities. It was agreed that the
                             PAT would assist communities with an economic analysis to put a hard
                             budget constraint on their choices.
                          Financial management was improved with a better document filing systems,
                             input of the missing accounting data (including the community contributions
                             both in cash and in-kind) and internals.
Preparation of AF         In addition to further measures to streamline flows of funds while enhancing
                              accountability and community ownership, improve knowledge management,
                              and ensure a technical, economic and environmental analysis of each MP,
                              the AF allowed: (i) a simplification of the PDO, and (ii) the addition of one
                              PDO indicator.
                          As the project matured, women leaders increasingly took center stage. In
                              2006, 2007 and 2011 AzRIP conducted 2- day National Community
                              Investment Conferences. Women parliamentarians and gender experts from
                              the National Academy of Sciences played key roles, and not only in the
                              gender sessions that each of the conferences brought together with a cross-
                              section of private sector, community group leaders, government officials and
                              NGOs on demand-driven topics of gender.
Preparation of follow-   Over the life of the project, the government (at local, regional and national
up project               levels), the communities and their representatives, as well as the WB have
                         learned key lessons about targeting. It is with a fair amount of confidence that
                         AZRIP 2 benefits will neither be captured by the elites, nor miss the intended
                         beneficiaries. In addition, AzRIP 1 kept its focus on infrastructure with purely
                         public good characteristics. However. AzRIP 2 is likely to target a more
                         sophisticated clientele. Valuable lessons from experience (under AZRIP 1, but
                         also in NE Brazil, for instance) may provide ways to target infrastructure that is
                         not entirely public, including for instance storage facilities, or other agricultural
                         common pool goods.



2.2 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of the background analysis

The background analysis supporting the project design adequately considered the
interrelations between the improvement of the living standards of households in rural
areas, rural infrastructure conditions and community focused activities to address the
multiple development concerns. Although there appear no quantified analyses of the
efficiency and effectiveness of large, government funded and implemented infrastructure
programs versus CDD-type of investments, the choice for the latter was made, largely
driven by a positive choice for change, empowerment and rural community support, as
well as a negative choice against poor experiences with large programs in the past, as
well as a dearth of qualified staff, up-to-date equipment, and funding. In the end, the


                                                     5
results of the project confirmed the validity of the demand-driven approach, the provision
of matching grants and project targeting.


Assessment of the project design

Combining investments in key infrastructure with community mobilization and capacity
building was the right choice. The PAD provided a good overview of the rationale,
criteria, results and risks of the project, while the Operational Manual (OM) provided a
practical and transparent process for acceptance or rejection for financing. Appraisal of
the community MPs was performed on the basis of quantitative and qualitative criteria
and covered the following areas: technical, financial, economical, environmental and
social evaluation. All above criteria were included in the initial design of PAD and OM
and the project was ready for implementation at the time of Board approval.

 The Operation Manual foresees that all members of the communities:

    actively participate in entire Community Project process
    elect representation on CP Committee and reach consensus on Community Project choice
    select a legal entity, or establish one, for the implementation and follow-up operations and
     maintenance of the CP
    raise a substantial Community Contribution for the CP
    accept and conform to the AzRIP operating procedures and implement the CP accordingly
    implement and deliver the Community Project as per the terms of the Cooperation Agreement
    learn in the process (participate in various institutional capacity exercises during outreach and
     preparation, and during implementation)
    become responsible owners of the output of the investment.



Adequacy of government’s commitment

Commitment of the Government of Azerbaijan (GoA) to the Project has been strong.
There were two delays in effectiveness (6 months for the orginal project, and 14.5 months
for the AF) that usually indicate a lack of commitment. However, these delays were
caused by poor communication and collaboration between a number of Government
bodies (including the Office of the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Ministries
of Finances, Agriculture, and Economic Development), rather than by a lack of
commitment to the project. In particular, the GOA repeatedly confirmed its interest in the
Bank’s continuing support to the rural sector of the country and to CDD-type of
approaches.

Assessment of risks

Several risks were identified and appropriate mitigation measures were elaborated at
appraisal. While the overall risk rating was “Modest?, three risks were rated as
“Substantial?: (i) non-transparent selection of participating grantees, (ii) ineffective

                                                6
Regional Grant Approval Committees (RGAC) and (iii) slow review and approval of
proposals by the Working Group (WG) and RGACs. These risks did actually occur in the
initial phase of implementation, but monitoring of implementation for consistency with
the Operational Manual guidelines by the PMU (with support from WB supervisions)
mitigated these risks.

QAG Assessment. QAG included the project in its Second Quality Assessment of the
Lending Portfolio (June 2010) and concluded that the project was “Highly Likely? to
achieve its PDO. Furthermore, the concluded that the Quality of Design was satisfactory,
with all dimensions of design (Strategic Relevance and Approach, Realism of Project
Design and Risks, and Fiduciary, Safeguards and GAC Aspects) being satisfactory. In
particular:

     Overall good and sound design based on established CDD/SIF practice around the
      world. Project defined key principles for this kind of project adapted to the reality of
      the country while leaving room for flexibility and further refinements during
      implementation.
     Good balance between the capacity building and the infrastructure investment
      components.
     Good decision to start in a few regions/provinces to establish the program and
      operating mechanisms, pilot and fine-tune before expanding to new
      regions/provinces. Original credit started in 3 areas, AF continued in Nakhchiran
      and moved to 2 additional areas, and next operation will expand further to national
      coverage.
     Created a well defined institutional framework that responded to the capacities and
      limitations of the various levels of government (central, municipal, communities
      themselves).
     While risks were well identified, measures to address them appear to be too focused
      on compliance with rules and procedures, rather than on incentives that motivate
      players to behave in ways that mitigate risks.

2.3      Implementation

The project was ready for implementation when approved: the PMU and ROOs were
satisfactorily staffed; the Operational Manual and initial implementation plans were
prepared; by the end of the first year six pilot MPs were completed. Communities were
made aware of the project through a mass media campaign, while service providers had
begun to undertake participatory rural assessments. There were some delays in
procurement of the Service Providers, in development of the management information
system and in timely submission of the M&E reports3 . Quite rightly, Implementation



3
  As the PMU failed in SP selection, the Project Assistance Team (PAT) was established alternatively to
provide community mobilization and training services to the subsequent ROO. PMU hired the individual
consultants for PAT. PAT successfully expanded its services to the communities in the project zones
afterwards as was done by SPs in the past. The transition was successfully managed without disruptions in

                                                    7
Progress (IP) was rated moderately unsatisfactory (MU), also because disbursements
were lagging behind schedule. These teething problems were overcome and the rating
was upgraded to moderately satisfactory (MS) half a year later and subsequently to S.
After that, the project was consistently rated S for IP and DO, with some recent HS
ratings.

The supervision missions and MTR recommended five measures to expedite project
implementation (see para 2.1 Learning from Doing): (i) improve the technical quality of
the MPs; (ii) ensure better sustainability; (iii) strengthen environmental supervision; (iv)
provide communities with the tools to apply an economic analysis to their planning; and
(v) streamline financial management. The pace of implementation improved significantly
after complying with the MTR recommendations, and by the end of 2007 disbursements
exceeded those forecasts and the project had more than caught up on the disbursement lag.

ISRs note by the third year of implementation a significant increase in technical quality
of MPs and a significant difference in the selection of community MPs as a result of
simple economic assessments. The AzRIP’s financial management had also improved
due to the completed action plan that strengthened the project financial management.

The AZRIP project was completed five months prior to the original date of project
completion (May 2009). Both IDA Credit and the PHRD Grant were fully disbursed. The
completion date for the AF was March 2012. All IDA & Government funds were fully
disbursed by this date. Out of $15 mln IDA funds $14,668537.44 was disbursed,
$331,463 was an exchange loss.

2.4 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E arrangements were based on a continuous and close monitoring of project activities
and components. Reporting formats for each component based on the annual performance
targets and monitoring indicators were also defined to allow the M&E system rapid
access to information about the project activities and intermediate results. The M&E
results were integrated in quarterly reports by an M&E specialist of PMU, and were made
available to management and supervision missions with a summary of key indicators.
The data collection methods were specific to each project activity.

Besides routine intermediate results monitoring for each component, a baseline survey
was commissioned, and mid-term and final evaluation surveys of the project impact were
defined. The final evaluation surveys were conducted by a consulting firm contracted by
PMU and they comprised the Evaluation Surveys, Focus Group Studies and Special
Studies for both the original and additional finance of the project. Ex-post economic
analysis was also conducted for selected MPs.



project implementation and enabled considerable cost savings to the Project. PAT also conducted
community mobilization and provided trainings.


                                                   8
Monitoring and collection of data were carried out through a variety of approaches with
active participation of community members, including community meetings and
interviews, community action plans, focus group discussions and informal group
discussions. The participatory monitoring dimensions included use of community score
cards and village resource maps. There was comprehensive use of Participatory Rural
Appraisal (PRA) methodologies, a highly effective tool to assess the needs and possible
solutions of problems of communities with wide involvement of community members in
the selection, decision making and monitoring process. The cross-project community
visits further enabled community learning, participatory monitoring and capacity
building.

The project was late getting its baseline in place. This was hardly the only project that
fails that aspect of readiness for implementation, but this particular project made up for
its late baseline completion through a range of other surveys and monitoring. In fact, the
methodologies and findings of AzRIP can, and will be used in AzRIP2, following up on
the QALP recommendation for the first project that said: “If M&E are not incorporated
into the “design?, it is very hard to retrofit, and leaves the project with limited ability to
properly demonstrate impact.? Clearly, the project made up for lost time, and now has a
solid set of monitoring data that demonstrate its considerable impact.

2.5 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Overall the financial management arrangements at the PIU, including accounting,
financial reporting, budgeting, staffing, external auditing, and funds flow were adequate
and acceptable to the Bank for implementation and closing. There were reasonable
internal control procedures in place and limited control reviews of sample transaction
were periodically conducted with few issues observed. PMU had acceptable planning and
budgeting capacity in place. The quarterly Un-audited Interim Financial Reports and
annual Audit Reports were in a timely manner and were acceptable to the Bank.

The procedures followed in procurement were in accordance with the Bank’s
procurement guidelines and as agreed between the GoA and the Bank. Comprehensive
procurement plans were prepared, shared with the Bank, and updated on a regular basis.
Contract rosters were also prepared and maintained. The Bank staff carried out prior and
ex-post review of the procurement process, reviewed and cleared procurement documents,
evaluation processes, contract award, and amendments as per the provisions of the Credit
Agreement. Some minor procurement discrepancies were identified during the
procurement reviews; there were, however, successfully sorted afterwards thanks to the
effective mitigation measures conducted by the PMU.




                                               9
2.6 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

In addition to an expansion of the current project into 11 additional rayons, the second
phase of AzRIP--approved by the World Bank’s Board on July 5, 2012—will create
opportunities for rural employment and livelihood support services, and by linking
strengthened community associations with formal sources of finance, in order to assure
sustainability of livelihood support initiatives.




                                          10
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1    Selected key results 1

    1.7 million people benefited from the project, use and maintain the infrastructure, and are
     satisfied with the priorities their communities chose.
  About 1.2 million people in 431 communities have benefited from a total of approximately
     1,300 kilometers of new or reconstructed roads. The condition of rural roads has improved
     for over 640,000 people in 200 communities, with improved access to schools and clinics,
     and increased income of farmers.
  Municipalities and the central government mobilized $800,000 for the operation and
     maintenance of rehabilitated infrastructure, something unheard of before this project.
  About 80% of farm products are now brought to markets by farmers themselves (18% in
     non-beneficiary areas). Prices of crops paid to farmers have increased on average by 20%
     in project areas. Thirty communities rehabilitated irrigation systems, benefitting
     approximately 700,000 people. Weighted average productivity has increased by 46% for
     potato, 40% for maize, 38% for cotton and 31% for wheat.
  In addition to the $20 million in project funds, a number of communities and local
     governments mobilized their own resources to expand (or sometimes maintain) the
     infrastructure built under the project, amounting to an impressive $ 1.77 million. The
     project also generated about $ 27 million in additional investments from the government,
     municipalities and donor organizations to improve rural infrastructure in 1,219 community
     based projects.
  Over 13,000 person-months of jobs in civil works have been generated, from which the
     rural poor have received more than $6.5 million equivalent in wages.
  Seventy-one communities rehabilitated potable water supply systems, and 150,000 rural
     people in the previously worst-served communities now have access to safe drinking
     water. The average NPV of potable water provision is estimated at over three times the
     project cost value.
  Nineteen communities rehabilitated primary schools, and school enrollment in beneficiary
     communities increased from 34 percent to 98 percent, benefitting more than 50,000 school
     boys and girls.
  A major institutional change, including:
              o changes in the rules of the game for planning, funding, implementing and
                  monitoring investments in rural infrastructure
              o the creation, operation and sustaining of new organizations at local, regional
                  and national level in both the government and the communities
              o capacity being developed, used, and expanded adds up to a major
                  improvement in social capital, that translates itself into technical, economic
                  and institutional capital.
              o About 1500 women leaders participated in regional level workshops, cross
                  fertilization visits, and capacity building conferences.
 Given the above, Azerbaijan found a better, cheaper and faster model to improve rural
 infrastructure while building capacity among communities, civil servants and private sector
 operators.




                                              11
3.2      Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

As mentioned earlier, the State Program on Social and Economic Development for 2009-
2013 (approved on April 14, 2009) includes, similar to its predecessors, the development
of the non-oil sector, the development of public utilities, new production and processing
enterprises, the development of social infrastructure as well as building and
reconstruction of educational, scientific, medical, cultural and sport centers to increase its
people’s living standard.

The life of the project was covered by three CPS documents. Despite differences in focus,
the key elements relevant to this project remained intact throughout: (i) the need to use
oil revenues in pro-poor rural growth; and (ii) the need to address issues of rural
infrastructure that raise transaction costs for rural people, while making rural areas
unattractive for the private sector. Throughout, there is the cross-cutting theme of
governance and anticorruption.

The AzRIP project finds itself in the nexus of community concerns, GoA State Programs
and the various WB CPSs.

3.3 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project’s Development Objective has been fully achieved, virtually all targets
exceeded, and important spill-over effects documented. (See Selected Key Results,
above.) As explained, the original PDO was simplified, and one PDO indicator added.
The Board approved these changes at the time of the approval of the Additional
Financing, which included a rationale for the AF, and an explanation for the
simplification and addition. The main achievements4, organized by PDO indicator, are
given below:

PDO Indicator 1a: Satisfaction with the selected priority.

As a result of the project, communities are better informed, make better choices, and are
more satisfied with the choices they made. An impressive 95% of the people interviewed
for the comprehensive impact study said they were satisfied with the priorities their
communities decided upon.

     People in the project area knew about the project. About 1500 people participated in
      seminars, 2800 in monthly meetings of the 45 regional municipalities; more than 400
      participants in 8 press conferences, and about 140,000 in community wide meetings.
      Information flyers, brochures and quarterly Newsletters reached almost 6000



4
          The tables given in “Section F. Results Framework Analysis? quantify the achievements by PDO indicator,
with a summary of other supporting evidence. This section expands on the supporting evidence with more detailed
information and numbers.


                                                        12
     Community Group members. An AzRIP film was produced and transmitted through
     the central and regional TV channels. The total costs for the initial publicity campaign
     was about $200,000.
    717 rural communities were mobilized (166,518 people participated, representing 1.7
     million citizens) through PRA tools, including Mapping, Historical Background,
     Problem Identification, Needs Prioritization, Trend Line, Venn Diagram, Community
     Group Selection, Strategic Planning, Sociologic Map and Economic Analysis of
     Priorities. PRA activities had an exceptional role in strengthening community values
     like participation, solidarity, democracy, joint intervention and helped develop trust in
     collective action.
    More than 700 Community Groups now understand the micro project cycle, and can
     successfully apply it. A key element has been the Operations Manual, that was based
     on global experience at the project start up, and was adjusted and improved upon after
     two sets of pilot projects were evaluated. The communities went through a five-day
     training package that covered the following topics: (i) AzRIP General Information;
     (ii) Institutional Management, (iii) Proposal Development, (iv) Community
     Contracting and Procurement; and (v) Environmental Awareness5. To assist in this
     process, the PMU provided on-the-job training to the training team of the Service
     Providers (ELAT in Mughan Salyan zone and “Nakhchivan Agribusiness in
     Nakhchivan zone) as well as to the Project Assistance Team trainers. CD Officers of
     the 3 Regional Operation Offices also participated in this training as they provide the
     AzRIP General Information training to the Community Groups. Duration of the
     training was 10 days with a total of 33 participants.
    About 650 communities (including about 160,000 active participants) as well as about
     9,000 government officials and private sector operators, now have:
         o the skills to set priorities in a democratic and inclusive manner;
         o an understanding of the technical options to address their priority problems]
         o economic insights to weigh those options
         o a proven commitment to collective action
         o the proven determination to maintain their assets, and
         o networking habits to pro-actively seek and share knowledge and information.
    On gender issues communities provided recommendations on how to facilitate their
     active participation. In regional workshops participants generally agreed that there is


5
           Quoting the Borrower Completion Report: “Various steps had been taken to improve the environmental
impact of MP under the original project, including the mandatory installation of sanitary facilities in clinics, planting of
trees to protect irrigation channels, and the quality assurance of drinking water under portable water MP. PMU
involved an environmental specialist from the very beginning of the project implementation to ensure that the
environmental management provisions are duly implemented. Environmental monitoring visits are carried out by the
PMU Environmental Specialist at least once a month and cover both sub-project identification and implementation
phases. Environmentally sensitive MPs were also visited during implementation to ensure environmental compliance.
The environmental training package was prepared and regional environmental workshops were held to raise the
awareness and capacity of community members on environmental issues.?

                                                            13
     no community development without women’s participation 6 . When comparing
     discussion results, substantial regional differences in attitudes regarding women’s
     participation and their level of activity emerge.
    The increasingly strong demand for funds, the willingness to contribute 10% of
     overall costs, and the initiative to raise $1.7 million 7 for program expansion as well
     as $800,000 for professional maintenance of their infrastructure is further evidence
     that households are satisfied with the selected priorities.
    All AzRIP funds have been disbursed in time, including the funds made available
     through an AF. A second AzRIP project has been approved in July 2012 and is
     considerably larger than the first (about $30 WB, $20 GoA, $3.6 Beneficiaries).

PDO Indicator 1b: Improved living standards as a result from the micro-projects.

About 650 villages, covered by the project, saw important improvements in their
financial situation, their income, and their poverty, as compared to the control villages.

    Economic welfare has slightly improved over the life of the project, but the rate of
     improvement is higher in the project villages than the control villages.
    The rate of income increase in the project villages is higher than in the control
     villages.
    Poverty is lower in project villages. There were more households below the poverty
     line in control villages, at 13% than in project villages, at 9%, starting from 14% and
     15% respectively.

Improved living conditions are also evidenced by:

    One of every three people in project villages now report they do no longer “have
     water problems?. At the start of the project only 5% said that. In contrast, water
     problems remained a major concern in non-project villages: only 6% reported no
     problems, both at start and end of project. Furthermore:




6
          The Rahimli community group of Northwestern zone is composed of 50% female membership and women
have been substantially involved in leadership roles within the community. As a result of their leadership, a potable
water project was selected, as the previous water source within their community was particularly detrimental to the
health of women and children.

7
          The Borrower Completion Report notes that municipal or rayon governments have often contributed health
equipment when health posts are rehabilitated. There are numerous such examples, and the value thus triggered is
estimated to be US$ 1,775,216. All these were recorded as a matching contribution for the Project as they were not
included in the CP budget before approval. There were also a few cases where old or secondhand equipment was
provided to health clinics and schools, undermining the operation and sustainability of the project.




                                                          14
                                                Project villages      Non-project villages
                                              Baseline Evaluation     Baseline Evaluation
    Inadequate and infrequent water provision  49%          25%        70%         74%
    Bad water quality                          26%          15%        26%         27%
    Water pipeline is missing                  38%          33%        38%         38%


     The rating of hospitals/clinics in the project villages as being in “fairly good
      condition? increased from 2 % to 34%! The ratings in non-project villages remained
      unchanged. Furthermore:

                                               Project villages       Non-project villages
                                                                      Baselin
                                            Baseline     Evaluation     e      Evaluation
    Poor healthcare facilities               54%           39%         55%        64%
    Infrastructure of the hospital/clinic
    is: ‘deteriorated’ or ‘highly
    deteriorated’                            75%             21%       75%        74%
    Household members had some sort
    of water borne disease                   80%             7%        81%        53%
    Home treatment                           68%             34%       74%        68%


Improved access to rural infrastructure reduced household transaction costs, thereby
freeing up household resources for greater market participation and ultimately increased
household incomes.

PDO Indicator 2: Increased use of infrastructure

Infrastructures saw a doubling of their use.

     That is hardly surprising, for instance given the major time savings recorded as a
      result of improved infrastructure. Roads are a good example: people in project
      villages save between a quarter and a third of their time going to a primary school, a
      secondary school, or a clinic, for instance. They decreased the time needed by about
      half going to a hospital, a transportation hub, or a marketing point, and save even
      three quarters of their time when fetching water! Other evidence of increased use is
      provided by the increased income of farmers (see above), as that would have been
      impossibly without them actually using the improved infrastructure.
     The project made considerable improvements in Access, Use, and Satisfaction among
      large numbers of people, always a hallmark of success. Given those numbers, the
      likelihood of continued care is high. Virtually all infrastructure rehabilitated is
      reportedly still functioning, partly through shared pride of ownership, partly because
      of well-understood economics, and partly because communities and local
      governments mobilized their own resources for maintenance as mentioned earlier. In


                                                15
    other words, the risk to the results of this project is negligible and its sustainability is
    highly likely.
   Participating communities are linked to each other, to government officials and to
    private sector operators through a variety of media, including for instance rural radio,
    and regular bus visits from one community to the other. During these “cross visits?,
    members of one community typically stay overnight in another village to learn first-
    hand about investment plans, capacity building, innovations, experiences with
    different contractors, and maintenance activities.
   The project also holds an annual investment conference, which brings together
    community members, government representatives, donors, and nongovernmental
    organizations to learn from each other's experience in the optimal use of the
    infrastructure.

PDO Indicator 3: Increased participation of project beneficiaries in community
decision making


More than 2.5 times the number of people now participate in community decisions than
before, many of whom women. The project had real impact on the 650 communities
served. Those people have been enabled, they are empowered, and they are reasonably
confident that the rules can be, and are being enforced. The project has served to:

   Enable, by:
       o Capturing the imagination and curiosity of the communities at the beginning
           of the program through a multi-media campaign that explained the program,
           provided answers to frequently asked questions, encouraged communities to
           commit to action, and provided backstopping to community organizers. The
           PMU had individual meetings with the Regional Executive Committees,
           explained the details of the project, including the emerging refinements of the
           Operations Manual, while soliciting feedback on procedures from the
           municipal representatives on a regional level in each project operation zone on
           a monthly basis.
       o Providing a comprehensive training program for 16,289 community members,
           organizers, government officials, and design consultants.
       o Cultivating women leaders by introducing women leaders to other
           communities and using informational tools such as the “Community Network?
           newsletter; as well as conducting the “Gender Participation in Community
           Projects? (5 workshops with 356 women participants). As a result, women
           leaders have increased to 17 communities where women were the leaders by
           2008, and to 44 by the end of the project.
       o Design and implement an ongoing knowledge management program,
           including networking between communities, professional support for



                                              16
           community organizers, technical and economic updates, a listener-influenced
           rural radio program, and an active and up to date website (www.azrip.org)
   Empower, by:
       o An intense program of peer learning, inclusive decision making, collective
           bargaining, an economic leadership program (including a very successful
           fostering of women’s leadership skills) and ensuring an increase in the
           number of households where women were consulted on financial matters.
       o A simple economic analysis was used to enable communities to make
           informed decisions about infrastructure investments. By providing an accurate
           picture of the costs, number of beneficiaries, and maintenance requirements,
           the economic analysis allowed communities to choose projects that effectively
           optimized the balance between inclusion and sustainability.
   Enforce, by:
       o Continuous improvements in the financial management and procurement
           practices, while developing a grievance procedure against perceived wrong
           doing. Those procedures are being formalized under the second project.
       o A radical introduction of transparency in all project-supported transactions.
           Anti-corruption is a key aspect of the GoA program, and of the CPS. As
           mentioned in the Borrower Completion Report, AzRIP operations were
           stopped in Ujar and Jalilabad rayons due to the serious interference in
           financial transactions by rayon Executive Committees. 8 As a result, the
           procedure was changed, transferring grants directly to the sub-contractor’s
           account based on the documents submitted to PMU by the communities.
       o The increased transparency, the application of agreed and updated rules of the
           game, and the trust the communities have gained that they do have a recourse
           open to them in case of perceived wrong doing, have been instrumental to
           reduce the corruption that typically is high in road and other infrastructure
           projects. Getting 1.7 million stakeholders to take an active and informed
           interest in each of the contracts did make a difference.
       o The PMU played a critical role. Typically, in an institutional development
           project such as this CDD project, mainstreaming its implementation to a
           Ministry has benefits in terms of sustainability and capacity building.
           However, given the novelty of the approach, the poor coordination between
           the multiple government bodies at local and regional level, and the fraud and
           corruption risks in the country, the decision to work with a PMU was a good


8
          On-site experience shows that some Contractors avoided executing the MP. They refused the invitation of the
Evaluation Committee to quote a price. It was found that during and after the implementation of the project, the
Contractors were forced by the Rayon ExCom to undertake tasks not related to the project, but to the advantage of the
ExCom members. For this reason, the Contractors were pressured to open additional bank accounts in other rayons or
in Baku. Clearly, there was little incentive for the Contractor in executing the works under the Community Project in
their own rayons. This affected prices and decreased the possibility of getting lower bids.

                                                         17
         one. The second project also opted for a PMU, but it might be advisable to
         reduce its terms of reference to tasks that are uniquely linked to the project
         itself, while getting other organizations involved in the capacity building and
         M&E, for instance.
       o The Project Assistance Team (PAT) is hired and coordinated by the PMU on
         the basis of clear, transparent terms. PAT acts as a Service Provider for the
         PMU and provides community mobilization and training services upon the
         request of the AzRIP Regional Operation Offices.

PDO Indicator 4: Communities that successfully submit micro-projects

Although this PDO indicators simply identified “communities that successfully submit
MPs, as measured by approvals?, it is useful to put that indicator in context. First, this
indicator is based on the minutes of the Regional Grant Approval Committees existing in
each ROO. Second, communities submit the Micro-project Proposals at the fourth stage
of the Micro-project Cycle. Third, the indicator deals about submitted and approved
proposals not received grants.

There are 6 stages in the MP Cycle and after each stage the community is evaluated by
the ROO --either gets dropped (regret letter) or pass to the next stage. So this simple
indicator demonstrates that the proposal has successfully passed the first four of six
evaluations: (i) Information outreach and selection of communities (rapid assessment);
(ii) Community Mobilization (PRA); (iii) Training and Proposal Development; (iv)
Registration, Appraisal, Approval and Cooperation Agreement. Significantly, the target
of getting 80% of the proposals to this stage was surpassed: 100% of proposals came to
this stage, an important result for all involved.

Of the proposals that did not make it, some were already dropped during the Rapid
Community Assessment or during the PRA process. It is also possible that a proposal was
approved but the community did not receive grants because of a possible failure in
tendering, a harsh winter, a failure to collect the necessary cash or other reasons. 114
requests were declined: 47 for lack of readiness to mobilize; 54 for low attendance or
lack of interest; and the rest failed to collect community cash contributions. A number of
communities got help to continue from the stage where they failed: mobilization, training
or CP Proposal, for instance. Most were successfully mentored through the process.

One of the factors contributing to the successful submissions was the already mentioned
learning path: from media campaign to group sessions, via case studies, to hands-on
learning. A key element was the Operations Manual that was available at the time of
appraisal, and got fine tuned over the course of implementation. It now is a model for
other operations to draw from. Based on its innovative design, and accelerating
implementation at the time, the project was one of 12 winners in the 3rd annual
competition "Improving the lives of People in ECA" (June 2010)



                                           18
The government (at local, regional and national levels), the communities and their
representatives, as well as the WB have learned key lessons about targeting. Valuable
understanding has been developed who the rural people are, and what their priority needs
are. In short, a more realistic picture of the diversity of rural communities emerged. It
was also found that project benefits were either at risk: (i) of ending up in the hands of
those who were not targeted (elite capture), while (ii) of missing some of the intended
beneficiaries. As experience was gained, financial flows were streamlined and made
more transparent, resulting in a reduction of inappropriate use of resources, and fewer
misses of intended beneficiaries.

3.4 Efficiency

An ex-ante economic analysis of the project was carried out during the design stage and
presented in the PAD. The ex-post analysis is conducted in line with the ex-ante analysis
in terms of methodology and approach; however some of the economic models are not
identical. Most of the data and numbers were taken from the surveys conducted for the
cost-benefit analysis of some MPs of AzRIP undertaken in 2010 and updated by the ICR
mission (March 2012). Some primary data and information were also collected during the
field visits and interviews with the farmers and other project stakeholders. A conservative
approach was applied to the present analysis.

The results of ex-post analysis indicate that the MP investments were economically
viable and the project’s outcome satisfactory. The analysis shows good investment
returns, ranging from 23.7 percent to 27.1 percent for non-profit infrastructure
investments and 45.8% for the irrigation investments. These rates are well above what
was expected. (See details in Annex 3).

The community based approach proved to be very cost effective in building rural
infrastructure, improving rural livelihoods and creating jobs. The project rehabilitated
rural infrastructure of high local importance by implementing 642 community MPs with
the overall project budget of US$ 30 million, or at an average cost of about US$ 45,000
per MP, which is significantly less than the cost of comparable infrastructure projects
implemented by other organizations.

3.5 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The Project is rated Satisfactory. It delivered the PDO results, reached all of its PDO and
IO indicators, and surpassed all but one of its targets, while those results were, and
continue to be highly relevant. It also achieved its goals in an efficient manner.
Significantly, the project also had solid outcomes in institutional change and built
considerable social, technical, and economical capital, without doing harm to people or
the environment.




                                            19
The implementation of AzRIP generated valuable and wide-spread knowledge on rural
infrastructure development as a means of poverty reduction and regional development. It
provides insights on the capacity needs of rural communities and local governments, the
institutional framework for regional development in general and infrastructure
development in particular, and the mechanisms for central government agencies to more
effectively engage with local and regional actors.

3.6 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The poverty impact was modest, possibly as a result of imperfect targeting in a
community-based activity. At the same time, the micro-project identification and design
were meant to be highly inclusive of the poor, with a criterion of approval that the poor
community members should benefit, and special prioritization should be given to the
poorest. However modest the poverty impact, it was positive, and of critical importance
to the people involved. At the time of the baseline 14% of households in the project area
were below the internationally recognized poverty line. At evaluation that had improved
to only 9%. In the control villages the percentages were 15 and 13 respectively.

The project had notably positive gender results. Participation of women in decision
making under the project is high (over 30 percent of CPC members are women). Women
play key (and increasing) roles in decision making at community level. The ability of
women, youth and the poorest to stand up, and effectively voice their views and choices
is an often mentioned result of the project. A large proportion of the leaders of
community organizations are now women and they positively influence implementation
by ensuring that the project responds to women’s needs in improvement of the rural
infrastructure. For example, the potable water subprojects reduced workloads of women
and girls in fetching water.

(b) Institutional change/strengthening

One of the perhaps hidden results of the project is its preparatory work for an eventual
fiscal decentralization of the government. Prior to the major capacity building and
institutional change impact of this project, decentralization would be unattainable. Now,
it would be a realistic option. Prior to AZRIP government officials were unfamiliar with
CDD approaches could be used to design, fund, implement, and maintain rural
infrastructure. Over time, their initial reserve matured into strong, manifest support.
While recognizing the importance of linking strengthened community associations with
sources of finance and technical advice. The community organizations themselves show
implementation and self-sustaining capacities that have been built up through refined and
well-tested process of community mobilization, strengthening, and accountability. An
unintended, but very welcome result came about when the project facilitated
collaboration between the communities and the local municipalities, who are often
members of their respective CPC. That collaboration helped mobilize additional funding
from local governments, and it helped obtain necessary licenses and permits.


                                           20
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Two uninted impacts have already been mentioned: (i) communities and local
governments mobilizing resources for maintaining or expanding infrastructure; and (ii)
the capacity built and institutional changes brought about, that could be used in case the
government would decide on fiscal decentralization. A third one is that some
communities return to the design companies for technical advice on the maintenance of
existing infrastructure and the design of new investments, and pay the going rate for such
advice.

For example, municipal or rayon governments often contribute health equipment when
health posts are rehabilitated. There are numerous such examples where completion of
community projects triggered local resources to enhance project impact. The value thus
triggered is estimated to be US$ 1,775,216. All these were recorded as a matching
contribution for the Project as they were not included to the CP budget before approval.
Matching contribution was usually made by Rayon ExCom, municipalities, local
authorities, community business people living outside of the community, etc. There were
also cases in which the quality of additional support was not adequate. For example, old
and secondhand equipment was provided to some health clinics and schools, which does
not ensure the sustainability of community projects.




                                           21
                                   Making the transition: from AzRIP 1 to 2.

  A repeater project, AzRIP-2, began preparation in late 2010, building on the AzRIP design and institutional and
  implementation mechanisms and working from a similar yet enhanced PDO. The new project's approach to local
  development builds on the foundational key success design feature from AzRIP of upstream design for
  sustainability and maintenance of local investments. Partnership with local communities, local government,
  technical design companies and service support agents allows for the preparation of collaborative maintenance
  plans and cost sharing formula for maintenance of assets in conjunction with municipalities and service
  providers. Plans for capital reinvestment and medium and longer-term maintenance are formulated as part of
  micro project design at inception, based on extremely persuasive and positive results from AzRIP practice.

  Building on lessons learned under AzRIP, rayons that have demonstrated successful results from AzRIP micro-
  project implementation will be eligible to request further support for complementary rural infrastructure
  investments under a second generation window under the new project. Evidence suggests that several
  engagements in one community are more likely to have an impact on poverty reduction. These second generation
  micro-projects will also step up efforts to crowd in private sector participation and thereby leverage additional
  capital, as well as new ideas and skills in support of local development initiatives.

  An incremental approach is to be incorporated within AzRIP's community engagement strategy to introduce
  support for productive infrastructure and livelihoods support services. Participating communities from the first
  phase of AzRIP have expressed strong demand for AzRIP to stimulate livelihood and income generating
  opportunities and AzRIP-2 is incorporating this sequential evolution in project design. Experience from CDD
  practice globally attests to the viability of this model and phased evolution of a CDD program from an initial
  focus on welfare and public goods to second generation public plus private goods and a productive investment
  focus.

  The intensive investment in social capital in AzRIP continues in the new project, manifested by the design
  emphasis on social and gender inclusion, social mobilization, collective decision-making, establishment of local
  governance groups and networks (community networks, cross-visits between communities and regional and
  national community investment knowledge sharing and networking) and broad mandates on transparency,
  information access and communications. The expected outcomes from such social capital investment include
  improved local governance, a sustained demand side stimulus for inclusive economic growth and continued
  attention to appropriate targeting. Over the longer-term, the expected transformative impact of the aggregate
  AzRIP investments is twofold: (i) to facilitate the translation of enhanced social capital into financial capital and
  economic wellbeing; and (ii) to secure gains achieved in solidarity and social cohesion at the local level and
  extend these pathways into improved governance and accountability between citizens and the State.



3.7    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

The beneficiary survey included the Baseline and Evaluation Surveys, Focus Groups and
Special Studies. The Special Studies were carried out to assess impact of the road
rehabilitation, potable water supply, small scale irrigation, and school and clinic
construction micro-projects. The objective of the Baseline and Evaluation surveys was to
provide the project with: (i) an end-of-project analysis on the socio-economic situation in
the project and neighboring control villages; and (ii) a comparison of these data with the
baseline survey done in 2009. The evaluation survey was primarily done through a
household survey, based on stratified random sampling. Thus, there were 15,000 sample
households surveyed in total (7,500 sample households for project villages and 7,500
sample households for control villages). The results of the survey have been incorporated



                                                    22
in this ICR in a number of sections, but mostly in Section 3.3 The Achievement of
Project Objectives. Further detail is presented in Annex 5.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to Low

The rationale for this rating has been given above, in section 3.3 The Achievement of
Project Objectives: PDO Indicator 2.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry was satisfactory. By the time of approval,
the project was ready for implementation with staffing in place, procurement plans ready,
and a solid Operations Manual available. This may explain the fairly high costs of
preparation at $485,000. At the same time, the project design, based on effective learning,
ensured enough flexibility for the project to learn from doing, and apply lessons from
experience during implementation.

The Bank ensured that global good practice and local previous experience were applied
to design a project that: (i) was in line with priority community needs, national priorities
and the Bank’s COS; (ii) applied lessons learned globally, while adjusting to local
conditions on the basis of previous experience evaluations; (iii) had solid technical and
economic underpinnings; (iv) did due diligence on the basis of financial management
analysis and procurement assessments. Risks were identified and appropriate mitigation
measures were put in place, an environmental analysis was undertaken and
recommendations internalized in the project, including mainstreaming environmental
appraisal and monitoring as part of the micro-project cycle.




                                            23
                  The QAG QALP II (2010) had this to say about the Quality of Design

       Overall good and sound design based on established CDD/SIF practice around the world. Project defined
        key principles for this kind of project adapted to the reality of the country while leaving room for
        flexibility and further refinements during implementation.
       Good balance between the capacity building and the infrastructure investment components.
       Good decision to start in a few regions/provinces to establish the program and operating mechanisms,
        pilot and fine-tune before expanding to new regions/provinces. Original credit started in 3 areas, AF
        moved to 3 more areas, and next operation will expand further to national coverage.
       Created a well defined institutional framework that responded to the capacities and limitations of the
        various levels of government (central, municipal, communities themselves).
       While risks were well identified, measures to address them appear to be too focused on compliance with




(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The quality of supervision by IDA was satisfactory.

The supervision has been conducted regularly (12 times between effectiveness and
closing) and at times intensively: in FY 07 the SPN BB expenditures exceeded $220,000,
which is twice the annual norm. However, the expenditure appears justified in a project
that introduced a complex institutional change across a large area with many stakeholders
involved. The Bank teams provided support and recommendations to project
implementation as shown in the Aide Memoires. At the same time, the Borrower
Completion Report notes that “in many cases the submission of Mission Aide Memoires
to the Government were delayed by the Bank, which caused challenges for the PMU?. 9

The task team, through providing continuous support and frequent supervision, built a
rapport with the PMU, and helped develop the capacity and procedures that allowed
smooth and professional implementation of the project. The Borrower acknowledges that
when the BCR states: “All these facts [including the invitation to the PMU Community
Development Manager to a TTL meeting in Tbilisi (2010) where she presented the
project] are indicators of great support, interest and attention of the Bank to AzRIP
implementation.? The BCR goes on to say that: “the Project Management Unit had no
problems in getting “No Objections? from the Bank during 2006-2012? (there had been
some delays in the first year of operation). IDA missions appear to have had adequate



9
           This reflects an unfortunate tendency observed in several Regions of the Bank, where the erroneous
assumption is made that AideMemoirs are legally binding documents, and that they need to be vetted by a host of HQ-
based staff. In fact, it remains good practice to ensure that a draft AideMemoir is presented to the counterpart a day
prior to the wrap up meeting. A standard para explains that the contents of the AM are subject to WB approval, and that
technical annexes may follow in the days and weeks after the mission’s end. The letter to government should be sent as
soon as practicable but no later than about 10 days after the wrap up.


                                                         24
skill mixes, and they were proactive in the identification of potential issues and got
involved in discussions with relevant levels of the government. Safeguards supervision
and risk monitoring were satisfactory.

The PMU procurement staff collaborated effectively with the Procurement specialists of
the Bank’s Country Office. The participation in several training programs organized by
the World Bank in Baku, Tbilisi as well in procurement training in ILO helped the project
procurement staff to improve and keep their knowledge on the procurement procedures
up-to-date. The PMU benefited from the Bank’s external web-site to access the Bank’s
most updated procurement related documents. The Task Team also gave support to
Financial Management. One of them was the reallocation of the Credit proceeds in April,
2009 with involvement of the Regional Director of South Caucasus Country Department.
The project’s FM staff was continuously invited to trainings to develop capacity and get
information about new procedures. There were no delays in receiving funds from IDA
and expenditures were financed in due time. The Financial Management Specialist of
World Bank Country office supervised FM annually, found no major issues, and provided
advice when required.

There were in total five Bank TTLs over the lifespan of the Project. However, as attested
to in the Borrower's ICR, continuity was never compromised and the Borrower rated the
quality of Bank supervision highly.


     The QAG QALP II (2010) had this to say about the Quality of Bank Supervision

    Overall satisfactory, with the exception of the CMU failure to promptly address the
     Government delays in signing and making effective the AF Credit.
    Significant turnover of staff and SMs does not seem to have affected client support.
    Engaged and proactive Task Team that identified, flagged and sought solutions to
     issues in a timely manner.
    Very strong focus and interesting efforts to address micro-project “sustainability?
     issues.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory as both preparation and implementation
found a balance between providing global knowledge, fiduciary oversight, and
managerial focus on results, without getting in the way of communities, government and
the PMU playing their legitimate, and increasingly complex roles.




                                           25
5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Government Performance is rated satisfactory. Its commitment to reducing rural poverty,
improving rural infrastructure, and building human capacity in rural areas has been, and
continues to be strong. Understandably when introducing an innovative model of
community-driven development that was unfamiliar to, and perceived as risky by quite a
number of government officials, commitment to the project was initially limited, as
reflected by a 6 month effectiveness delay for the original project. Initially, their
reservations appeared to be justified, with procurement problems in 2005, the first year of
the project, when the project was rated MU (in June 2005). However, as things picked up,
success stories were told through a number of media, and local and rayon government
officials became active stakeholders.

The government became an enthusiastic partner and counterpart funding was transferred
as agreed, although sometimes with some delay. The effectiveness of the Additional
Financing was also delayed, this time for 14.5 months. Although that raises an
effectiveness delay flag, and analysis has shown a very strong correlation between such
delays and a lack of ownership, this case was caused more by inept coordination and
communication between various government Ministries (and an overly timid role played
by the CMU that limited itself largely to extending deadlines), than by a lack of
commitment. By the time the project approaches closure, the government was forceful in
its advocacy for a follow-up project, engaged in the design, and signed for a counterpart
contribution that was double the amount of the original project. 10

While preparing the GoA ICR, the ROO staff contacted each and every AzRIP-funded
community and found that after completing the AzRIP funded CPs, communities had
1219 additional small scale CPs funded by the community or municipality, with 110 CPs
were funded by donors and 340 CPs were supported financially by the government. The
financial support for these Community projects, AFTER AzRIP, is an impressive $27
million, divided as follows:

       Community and/or municipality (1219)                                $18,445,000
       Donor funds (110)                                                   $4,280,000
       Central government funds (340)                                      $4,283,205




10
       The original project $1.4m plus $8.9m AF = $10.3m total, as compared to the $20m for the follow-up project.




                                                      26
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Project Management Unit and the State Agency on Agricultural Credit managed their
respective tasks very well, as evidenced by the results summarized in this ICR. In
particular, the PMU managed to balance its supporting, facilitating role with its fiduciary
and control responsibilities very well. Both organizations ensured compliance with social
and environmental safeguards, with procurement and financial management standards,
and monitored all components’ activities, including the technical inspection of the MPs
from design to completion. The quality assurance processes were adequate and the
documentation included all necessary information required for monitoring the
construction process and ensuring the quality of civil works. External technical audit and
technical sustainability assessment of the selected MPs confirmed that the quality of
works and of materials used was satisfactory and according to the designs, with no
significant deficiencies. M&E activities and progress reports were timely prepared and
adequate for monitoring component progress, outputs and the project impact.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Perhaps the most striking aspect of Borrower Performance is its widespread ownership:
from the women entrepreneurs in the villages, to the profitable farmers, using the newly
repaired roads to market, via the local municipality representatives and private sector
engineers, to the staff of line Ministries and the PMU, they have become advocates,
participants and stakeholders. The CDD approach went from an unknown, unloved
innovation to become the preferred model for rural development in the country.



6. Lessons Learned

Three key lessons were learned:


 Sustainability is a function of multiple factors. Moreover: (i) sustainability is a
  continuum, rather than an absolute: the more factors are in play, the higher the
  likelihood of sustainable operation; and (ii) the actual factors at play in any given
  situation will differ, and need to be identified during project design, while allowing for
  additional factors to be included during implementation. This project was very
  successful in maintaining the infrastructure, which is often an area of concern for
  CDD operations (the IEG evaluation of CDD operations in 2005 highlighted O&M as
  a major issue). Many CDD operations claim that the enhanced sense of ownership
  improves sustainability, but the evidence is simply not there in many cases, This
  project actually managed to combine a number of factors that positively impact

                                            27
  sustainability: (i) a clear sense of ownership; (ii) a design that is fit-for-purpose; (iii)
  the use of design engineering companies, resulting in accountability for the quality of
  engineering; (iv) satisfactory economic returns; (v) reliable and affordable support
  services; (vi) simple economic analysis training and materials produced; (vii)
  transparent cost-sharing arrangements for maintenance; (viii) contracted-out
  arrangements for the preparation of bidding documents and the supervision of
  operation and maintenance; and (ix) the tri-partite agreements signed between
  communities, municipalities, and contractors when constructing infrastructure, for
  instance. As stated above, it appears that the more factors, the higher the likelihood of
  sustainability.
 Success breeds success. Considerable complementary investments became available
  once the successes were communicated, particularly by the beneficiaries themselves,
  using mass media. This additional funding –from private citizens, local municipalities,
  line ministries represented locally, NGOs, and donors inspired by the successes of the
  project—helped increase the quantity and the quality of the project’s outcomes. Going
  forward, the results achieved will facilitate two types of possible collaboration: (i)
  between multiple villages to improve regional planning and coordination, including
  the formulation of demand for more sophisticated services such as regional
  infrastructure, business development services, local organizational capacity
  strengthening, or market and institutional linkages; and (ii) with agricultural trade
  organizations, for instance in vertically integrated value chains, such as adding value
  through storage, processing, packing, and/or sorting, for instance.

 The institutional reforms that come with the introduction of a CDD operation lead to
  efficiency and effectiveness in their own right, but in addition, they are an excellent
  preparation for a fiscal decentralization effort. Although not as easily measured as
  kilometers of roads, safe water points, or repaired hospitals, the translation of
  enhanced social capital into financial capital and economic well-being is formidable.
  Even harder to pin down are the gains achieved in solidarity and social cohesion at the
  local level. However, the beneficiary assessment demonstrated that those gains are real,
  and that they are could be extended into improved governance and accountability
  between citizens and the State. Without the institutional reforms under this CDD
  project such goals would be much harder to reach.



7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                             28
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                              Appraisal
                                                       millions)

Component A. Infrastructure                25.14             33.29                   132
Component B. Capacity                       5.66              7.78                   138
Enhancement
Component C. Management                     4.01              6.06                   151
Total Baseline Cost                        34.81             47.12                   135




(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                     Type of       Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                   Cofinancing      (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                   millions)   millions)
                                  Budget
Borrower                                            10.25            10.30         100.48
                                  provisions
                                  Cash, labor &
Local Communities                                    3.11            3.06          98.39
                                  materials
International Development
                                  Credit             30.00           30.45         101.50
Association (IDA)
JAPAN: Ministry of Finance - PHRD
                                  Grant              3.30            3.30          100.00
Grants




                                            29
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The project included three components. While the two first components were to improve
the living standards for households in rural communities through improved access to and
increased use of infrastructure services, the third component provided project
management support.

Component A - Infrastructure.

This component aimed to provide grants to rural communities to implement infrastructure
MPs. It funded 642 rural infrastructure MPs, including 340 in 2005-2008 within the
original project and 302 in 2009-2012 within Additional Financing. The total cost of the
component was US$ 35.62 million, including US$ 14.57 million in the original project
and US$ 21.05 million in Additional Financing. The average cost of MPs was
US$ 40,000. The beneficiary contribution was 10 percent of a MP cost. During the
original project implementation it included five percent; however for the Additional
Financing it was lowered to two percent given that the project intervened in poor
communities that had often proven difficulty paying the beneficiary contribution,
resulting in needy communities dropping out of the program.

Villages and/or communities, including clusters of smaller communities, with a
population greater than 1 000 and less than 10 00011 were eligible to participate in the
project. Those below 1 000 inhabitants could associate with neighboring villages to meet
the population threshold. Those below 1 000 inhabitants could associate with neighboring
villages to meet the population threshold.

The project implementation under this component included the identification, design and
construction or rehabilitation of rural infrastructure, based on the priority needs identified
by communities. Potential investments included basic economic (e.g. rehabilitation of
secondary roads, water systems, electricity transformers) and social (e.g. schools and
health clinics) infrastructure. Investments were identified in consultation with
communities and prioritized through local participatory planning processes. Trainings
needed at the community level were built into the Community Project Cycle and financed
by Component B – Capacity Enhancement.

The actual breakdown of the implemented MPs by type of infrastructure and project zone
in the original project and Additional Finance is presented in the table below.




11
     For Nakhchivan this figure was 600 – 10,000.


                                             30
Table 1. Number of micro-projects (breakdown by kind of investment and project
zone).




                                                                                                                                                  Community renovation
                       Road rehabilitation




                                                                                                                                                                             Pedstrian bridge
                                                  Potable water


                                                                      Electricity




                                                                                                     Irrigation


                                                                                                                      Drainage


                                                                                                                                     School
                                                                                        Health




                                                                                                                                                                                                Total
Original project
Mughan – Salyan                              87                   0                 3       14                    6         10           12                              0                 1      133
Lower Shirvan                                45             36                      3            2                8              4            5                          0                 0      103
Nakhchivan                                   8             33                 37            12              11                   0            2                          0                 1      104
Subtotal                         140                        69                43            28              25              14           19                              0                 2      340
Additional financing
Northern zone                                77                   9                 0            3                0              0            0                          3                 0        92
Northwestern
zone                                         98                   6                 0            2                0              1            9                          1                 0      117
Mughan-Salyan                                 5                   0                 0            0                3              6            0                          1                 0        15
Lower Shirvan                                 8                   0                 0            1                0              8            0                          0                 0        17
Nakhchivan                                    5            24                 20                 0          12                   0            0                          0                 0        61
Subtotal                         193                        39                20                 6          15              15                9                          5                 0      302
Original project & Additional financing
Northern zone                                77                   9                 0            3                0              0            0                          3                 0        92
Northwestern
zone                                         98                   6                 0            2                0              1            9                          1                 0      117
Mughan-Salyan                                92                   0                 3       14                    9         16           12                              1                 1      148
Lower Shirvan                                53             36                      3            3                8         12                5                          0                 0      120
Nakhchivan                                   13            57                 57            12              23                   0            2                          0                 1      165
Total                            333                108                       63            34              40              29           28                              5                 2      642




                                                                                            31
                                  1%   0.3%

                                  4%
                             5%                             Road rehabilitation
                        5%                                  Potable water
                   6%                                       Electricity
                                                            Health
                                                            Irrigation
                  10%                              52%
                                                            Drainage
                                                            School
                                                            Community renovation
                         17%                                Pedstrian bridge




The process of MP prioritization and selection was demand-driven and 333 communities
preferred road rehabilitation. As a result, more than half of the total number of
implemented MPs were focused on road rehabilitation and most of them were
implemented in Mughan-Salyan, Northern and Northwestern project zones. One of the
reasons for the relatively high number of this type of MP is the fact that in many villages,
implementation of other infrastructure MPs was infeasible due to technical and natural
resource problems (e.g. lack of potable or irrigation water sources).

The second major group of the MPs was potable water supply projects, which were
mainly implemented in Lower Shirvan and Nahkchivan zones. Though potable water
problem is also critical in Mughan-Salyan, it was impossible to solve the problem
through a community project, since this zone is below sea level and artesian wells cannot
be drilled due to the high level underground water. Also, the turbidity of river waters in
this zone makes the use of water purification facilities impossible.

About 10 percent of MPs focused on building electro-transformers and power lines.
Almost all of them were implemented in Nakhchivan where communities considered
rehabilitation of electricity supply a priority due to the mainly mountainous landscape in
this region.

Another project output that was expected to be achieved under Component A was the
number of beneficiaries that benefited from improved access to infrastructure services.
The number was targeted as 1,750,000 – 2,000,000 in total both for the original project
and Additional Financing. The actual number is calculated as 1,764,822 and it exceeds
the minimum. The actual breakdown of the beneficiaries number by kind of investment is
as follows: road rehabilitation - 59%, potable water - 13%, health clinics - 5%, irrigation
- 5%, electricity - 6%, schools - 5%, drainage - 5%, community renovation - 1% and
pedestrian bridges - 0.2%.




                                              32
Table 2. Number of beneficiaries for all micro-projects and by kind of investment.
                                                                Additional
                                          Original AzRIP
         Micro-projects                                         Financing              Total
                                           (2005-2008)
                                                               (2009-2012)
 Road rehabilitation                             460,813            586,039           1,046,852
 Potable water                                   153,058             77,331             230,389
 Health                                           72,265             21,335              93,600
 Irrigation                                       69,805             26,557              96,362
 Electricity                                      68,294             33,079             101,373
 School                                           51,635             30,521              82,156
 Drainage                                         35,271             56,110              91,381
 Pedestrian bridge                                 3,919                  -               3,919
 Community renovation                                  -             18,790              18,790
 Total                                           915,060            849,762           1,764,822

                                    0.2%    1%

                                     5%
                               5%                                    Road rehabilitation
                          6%                                         Potable water 
                                                                     Health
                    5%
                                                                     Irrigation
                   5%                                                Electricity
                                                                     School
                                                         59%
                                                                     Drainage
                        13%
                                                                     Pedestrian bridge
                                                                     Community renovation




The component also achieved the targeted share of beneficiaries that are satisfied or very
satisfied with the infrastructure service quality. The target was 95 percent and the actual
share is 98 percent. The project evaluation survey also revealed that most of the
infrastructure facilities, wherein there was AzRIP intervention like roads, schools,
potable water, healthcare facilities etc., the general rating of the infrastructure facilities
by the sample respondents have improved considerably (much more ‘satisfactory’ ratings,
increased ‘good’ ratings, and less ‘bad’ ratings) at the evaluation stage as compared to the
baseline stage. For example, the ‘satisfactory’ ratings have increased considerably as
follows: 51% (baseline - 24%) of the sample respondents rated access roads as
‘satisfactory’, bridges were rated ‘satisfactory’ by 43% (baseline was only 6%), 44%
(baseline was only 9%) for schools, 44% (baseline - 12%) for health facilities, 51%
(baseline - 22%) for portable water supply, 51% (baseline - 14%) was water supply


                                                    33
regularity, 51% (baseline was only 3%) for electricity connection, 38% (baseline was
only 7%) for access to market place.

Overall, the results of Component A have exceeded all key indicators. By Project
completion, 642 infrastructure MPs had been implemented in communities. As planned
about 1.75 million beneficiaries have improved access to infrastructure services and 97
percent of them are ‘satisfied’ or ‘very satisfied’ with the infrastructure service quality.


Component B - Capacity Enhancement.

This component aimed to increase stakeholder capacity to identify, implement, and
operate MPs through providing grants for training and technical assistance. The
component had two subcomponents:

      Sub-component B-1 that helped create the required capacity of all involved
       stakeholders, e.g. communities, recipients, Regional Grant Approval Committees
       (RGACs) and Project Assistance Teams (PATs). In the community mobilization
       phase, communities were assisted in all aspects of community-project
       development        including     completing      problem      analysis,     needs
       assessments/prioritizations, and proposal preparations. Grantees receives training
       in contracting, procurement when specified, implementation of financial
       management, and participatory monitoring and evaluation (PM&E).

      Sub-component B-2 that financed the long term professional staff and the short
       term contract staff in the ROOs in order to build the capacity of the State Agency
       on Agricultural Credits (SAAC) and the government more generally to implement
       CDD-type rural investment projects.

By Project completion, 717 rural communities had been mobilized through PRA tools.
Overall number of community members who participated at mobilization workshops was
166,518 and they served as representatives of about 1.9 million citizens. The following
PRA tools were applied while increasing capacity of involved rural communities:
Community Mapping, Historical Background, Problem Identification, Needs
Prioritization, Trend Line, Venn Diagram, Community Group Selection, Strategic
Planning, Sociologic Map and Economic Analysis of Priorities. It should be mentioned
that PRA activities had an exceptional role in strengthening community values like
participation, solidarity, democracy, joint intervention and helped develop a new
approach to community needs and instill a sense of confidence to solve them through
trust and reliance in leaders and the formation of a sense of ownership and initiative to
build civil society.

Out of 717 communities mobilized, only 642 received grants. 114 communities were
declined after evaluation at some stage of the MP Cycle for different reasons: 47
communities were declined during mobilization due to lack of readiness to mobilize, 54
at training because of low attendance or lack of interest in proposed topics, Project

                                            34
Proposal development and appraisal stages, and the other communities were declined
after the Cooperation Agreement was signed as they failed to collect community cash
contributions. It should be noted that 13 of the declined communities collaborated with
AzRIP later and benefited from community grants.

More than 700 Community Groups were provided with a five-day training package that
covered the following topics i) AzRIP Information Training, ii) Institutional Management,
iii) CP Proposal Development, iv) Community Contracting and Procurement and v)
Environmental Awareness. These trainings helped the participant Community Groups to
obtain all necessary knowledge and skills on effective community project planning based
on successful experiences, technical implementation, monitoring, recording, handover as
well as procurement and environmental issues.

One of the AzRIp’s achievements was Community Networking, which was built based
on sharing and disseminating best practices and lessons learned, facilitating integration,
business relations formation and cross fertilization for the development of communities.
The network had been established by the initiative of the project PMU and is managed by
events and activities that brought together community groups, municipalities,
representatives of local and central government, National and International NGOs, CD
Stakeholders, Embassies and potential donors.

By Project completion, 214 intra-zone and four inter-zone cross visits of community
members (to exchange of experience in MP implementation), 17 Regional Capacity
Building Conferences and three National Community Investment Conferences had been
conducted. A number of national and international NGOs and organizations participated
in these activities, including CHF, UMID, ADRA, ACQUIRE, Save the Children, World
Vision, SFDI, Democracy Learning, IFAD, Women and Children’s Affairs, USAID,
UNHCR, Eurasia Partnership Foundation, FAO, GIZ, ACF, Oxfam, Peace Corps, AIM,
ARAN, ELAT, etc.

The Community Networking also enabled the participation of community members and
other stakeholders at Environmental (15), Gender (6) and Sustainability (8) workshops.
Grand Opening Ceremonies were held for 74 Community Projects. Representatives of the
Rayon Ex.Coms, Rayon Education and Health Departments, Cabinet of Ministers,
Ministry of Health, National Parliament of Azerbaijan, Nakhchivan AR Parliament, WB
Country office, WB AzRIP Task Team as well as the Prime Minister of Nakhchivan and
the Ambassador of Japan and many other representatives from different institutions
participated in the Grand Opening Ceremonies.

By Project completion, the participating communities reached of the following
achievements under Component B:
    They actively and broadly participated in entire MP process;
    They elected their representatives in CP Committee and learned how to reach
       consensus on choice of MPs;
    They selected a legal entity, or established one, for the implementation and
       follow-up operations and maintenance of the MPs;

                                           35
      They raised substantial Community Contributions for the selected MPs;
      They accepted and conformed to the AzRIP operating procedures and
       implemented their MPs accordingly;
      They implemented and delivered the MP as per the terms of the Cooperation
       Agreements;
      They learned in the process by participating in various institutional capacity
       exercises during outreach and preparation, and during implementation and finally
       they became responsible “owners? of the output of the investments.

The target number of trainees of capacity building activities by kind of activity under this
component was 10,000 – 12,000. Since the actual number is 12,575 (5,984 people under
the original project and 6,591 people under the Additional Financing), the project
exceeded the maximum target. The actual breakdown is as follows: community trainings
- 51%, cross visits - 18%, inter-zone cross visits sessions - 4%, workshops/conferences -
7% and seminars - 20%.

Another two target indicators that were envisaged under this component were: (i) share of
capacity building trainees that are ‘satisfied’ or ‘very satisfied’ with the capacity building
exercises and (ii) share of capacity building trainees indicate having used their newly
acquired knowledge often or very often. According to the training evaluation sheets 42
percent and 56 percent of trainees reported that they are ‘satisfied’ and ‘very satisfied’
with provided capacity building exercises respectively (98 percent in total). The
component exceeded well above the target share which was 80-85 percent. According to
the project M&E data, the actual share of capacity building trainees indicate having used
their newly acquired knowledge often or very often was 76 percent, while the target was
80-85 percent. This is only indicator that the component has not achieved fully, however,
the actual achievement is very close to the target figure. Three fourths of the respondents
have used their newly acquired knowledge provided by the project.




                                             36
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The objectives of the analysis are to compare its results with the ex-ante analysis as well
as to assess the project outcomes and the degree to which the project achieved its
development objectives and the performance indicators. An ex-ante economic analysis of
the project was carried out during the design stage and presented in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD). Since MPs under AzRIP were demand-driven and multi-sectoral, a
sample economic analysis for a typical MP was undertaken. Potable water supply was
chosen as a typical MP investment.

The presented ex-post analysis is conducted in line with the ex-ante analysis in terms of
methodology and approach; however some of the economic models are not identical.
Particularly, it analyzed not only a typical potable water MP, but also the typical road
rehabilitation and health clinic construction MPs. These three typical MPs are
representative of about 75 percent of the total number of implemented MPs. Most of the
data and numbers were taken from the surveys conducted for the cost-benefit analysis of
some MPs of AzRIP undertaken in 201012. Some primary data and information were also
collected during the ICR mission’s field visits and interviews with the farmers and other
project stakeholders. A conservative approach was applied to the present analysis.

The results of ex-post analysis indicate that the micro-project investments were
economically viable. The analysis shows good investment returns ranged from 23.7% to
27.1% for non-profit infrastructure investments and 45.8% for the irrigation investments.
These return rates are well above than that was expected.

       Table 1. Summary of Ex-Ante and Ex-Post Economic Analysis of AzRIP

                    Micro-
                                      Investment Costs                NPV               EIRR, %
                  project type
 Ex-ante
                 Potable water           USD 79,200              USD 55,872               15.7%
 analysis
 Ex-post         Road
                                         AZN 40,845              AZN 57,400               27.1%
 analysis        Rehabilitation
                 Portable
                                         AZN 49,744              AZN 64,200               28.8%
                 Water
                 Health Clinic
                                         AZN 39,518              AZN 36,900               23.7%
                 Construction
                 Irrigation              AZN 44,900              AZN 95,800               45.8%



12
   Final Report on Cost-Benefit Analysis of Community Micro-Projects, Reported by Dr. Israyil
Isgandarov, Independent Consultant (August 2010).



                                                  37
Road Rehabilitation Micro-Projects

It is reported that 333 MPs or more than half of those implemented focused on road
rehabilitation. Economic analysis of these MPs was based on calculation of the avoided
costs from transport expenses after implementation of a typical road rehabilitation MP,
particularly on the estimate of the difference between average time that people spent to in
transit one way before and after the project implementation (including public
transportation). The analysis also took into account the increased number of passenger
cars and lorries and the passenger cars used for transporting load. The benefits from the
avoided cost of vehicle repair and using taxi services were also taken into consideration.

The investment cost of a typical road rehabilitation MP was about AZN 40,845, while
NPV is AZN 57,400 and the investment return is 27.1 percent.

The data and information for this analysis were collected during the surveys conducted
for the cost-benefit analysis of the road rehabilitation MPs of AzRIP undertaken in 2010
and updated by the ICR mission (March 2012). The data presented in the tables below is
representative of a typical road rehabilitation MP implemented by the project.

Table 2. Survey results of the typical road rehabilitation micro-project
                       Results of the surveys                                 Source

    1   Number of vehicles
        Number of cars                                                 28     Municipality reference
        Number of lorries                                               7     Municipality reference
        Number of cars used for carrying loads                         10     Municipality reference
2       Estimation of the avoided time
        Daily average number of car (used for personal aims or as a           Survey, assessment and
                                                                        4
        taxi) movements to one direction                                      calculation
        Daily average daily number of lorry movements to one                  Survey, assessment and
                                                                        3
        direction                                                             calculation
        Saved time (hour) during movement to one direction on the             Municipality reference and oral
                                                                       0.08
        road                                                                  survey
        Daily average number of people moving through the road in a           Survey sheets
                                                                        3
        car
3       Calculation of the avoided costs from vehicle repair
        Average annual avoided costs from vehicle repair (lorries or          Assessment, observation and
                                                                       14
        cars) in AZN                                                          survey
        Avoided cost for single payment to lorries for transporting           Survey
                                                                       10
        goods during a season in AZN
        Average number of transportations of a lorry per a season      10     Survey
        Avoided costs per a single payment to one car for                     Survey
                                                                        8
        transporting goods during a season (in AZN)
        Average number of transportations of a car per a season         8     Survey and reference
        Calculation of avoided costs for taxis and public
4       transports
        Average number of taxi usage per a day                          1     Survey
        Price reduce in taxi service                                    1     Observation and survey
        Average number of usage the public transports per a day         2     Survey




                                                        38
Table 3. Revenues and expenditures of the typical road rehabilitation micro-project
Expenditures
Project cost                                                            40,845
Maintenance costs                                                        2,000
Annual revenues
Annual avoided costs from car repairs                                      490
Annual avoided time                                                      6,804
Annual avoided costs on transportation service, including:
From taxi services                                                         180
From transportation services                                             6,432
                                                              Total:    19,078
Results of the surveys and assessments                                           Source
Number of cars                                                             28    Municipality reference
Number of lorries                                                           7
Number of cars used for carrying loads                                     10
Daily average number of car (used for personal aims or as a taxi)           4    Survey, assessment and
movements to one direction                                                       calculation
Daily average daily number of lorry movements to one direction               3
Saved time (hour) during movement to one direction on the road            0.08   Municipality reference and
                                                                                 oral survey
Average monthly number of vehicle (car and lorry) usage                 17,820
Average daily number of the people moving with vehicles                      3   Survey
Average annual avoided costs from vehicle repair (lorries or cars) in       14   Assessment, observation and
AZN                                                                              survey
Avoided cost for single payment to lorries for transporting goods          10    Survey
during a season in AZN
Average number of transportations of a lorry per a season                  10
Avoided costs per a single payment to one car for transporting goods        8    Survey
during a season (in AZN)
Average number of transportations of a car per a season                      8
Average number of taxi usage per a day                                       1   Survey
Price reduce in taxi service                                                 1   Observations
Average number of usage the public transports per a day                      2   Survey
Average monthly salary                                                     200   Estimate for 2011
Average value of the avoided time                                        1.136
Number of monthly working hours                                            176


Potable Water Micro-Projects
The second major group of MPs was potable water supply projects (108 MPs in total).
Economic analysis was based on identification of the number of people that used potable
water in the community of project implementation, as well as the neighboring
communities using the water after project delivery. The analysis also considered the
expenditures for buying and treating water.

The investment cost of a typical potable water MP was about AZN 49,744, while NPV is
AZN 64,200 and the investment return is 28.8 percent.

The data and information for this analysis were collected during the surveys conducted
for the cost-benefit analysis of the potable water MPs of AzRIP undertaken in 2010 and


                                                         39
updated by the ICR mission (March 2012). The data presented in the tables below
representative for a typical potable water MP implemented by the AzRIP.

Table 4. Survey results of the typical potable water micro-project
         Results of surveys                                           Source
         Number of families with access to
     1
         drinkable water
         Number of current benefitting families                       Municipality reference, survey, assessment and
                                                        250
         (water users among community members)                        calculation
2        Water buying and purification
         Number of families who previously                            Municipality reference, survey, assessment and
         bought drinkable water, but after the                        calculation
                                                        250
         project maintenance began to use the
         purified water from water devices
                                                                      Municipality reference, survey, assessment and
         Annual expenses per a family to buy and        60            calculation
         treat water before the project maintenance
         Average annual expenses of a family to                       Municipality reference, survey, assessment and
         use drinkable water (taking into account                     calculation
         water line repair, repair of the water tanks   10
         family used, transportation cost for
         carrying water, etc)


Table 5. Revenues and expenditures of the typical potable water micro-project
         Expenditures
         Project cost (AzRIP contribution)                                            49,744
         Maintenance expenditure                                                       2,500
     1   Annual income
         Avoided cost from water purchase and purification                             16,968

         Avoided costs spent for cureing the diseases                                     210
         State income (Taxes)                                                               -
                                                                         Total:       17,178


     2   Results of surveys and assessments                                                      Source
         Number of current benefitting families (water users among
         community members)                                                               250
3.       Water buying and purification
         Number of families who previously bought drinkable water, but
         after the project maintenance began to use the purified water from
         water devices                                                                    250
         Annual expenses per a family to buy and treat water before the                          assessment/survey
         project maintenance                                                               60
         Average annual expenses of a family to use drinkable water (taking
         into account water line repair, repair of the water tanks family used,
         transportation cost for carrying water, etc)                                      10



Health Clinic Construction Micro-Projects

By the end of the project, 34 MPs were implemented to construct health clinics. The
investment cost of a typical health clinic MP was about AZN 39,518, while NPV is AZN
36,900 and the investment return is 23.7 percent.

                                                             40
Economic analysis of the health clinic MPs was carried out by using two different
assessment methods: Contingent Valuation Method (CVM) and Avoided Cost Method
(ACM). The analysis was based on: (i) assessment of the number of people having access
to the medical clinic (this data was obtained from the municipality and in order to justify
its validity, some brief surveys were conducted in the neighboring community); (ii)
identification of the community members willing to pay for construction of a medical
station per 15 years and (iii) average annual expenses of a family for getting the services
(considering transportation, expenses paid to doctors, medicines, etc.) before and after the
project. The data and information for this analysis were collected during the surveys
conducted for the cost-benefit analysis of the potable water MPs of AzRIP undertaken in
2010 and updated by the ICR mission (March 2012).

Community Irrigation Micro-Projects

By the end of the project, 40 MPs were implemented to construct and improve irrigation
schemes. The investment cost of a typical irrigation MP was about AZN 44,900, while
NPV is AZN 95,800 and the investment return is 45.8 percent. EIRR of the irrigation
micro-project is much higher than that of non-profit infrastructure micro-projects of
AzRIP, and this is due to the high profitability of investment in irrigation in general.

Economic analysis was based on calculation of incremental revenue due to increased crop
yields and expanded sowing area under the crops.

The data and information for this analysis were collected during the surveys conducted
for the cost-benefit analysis of the potable water MPs of AzRIP undertaken in 2010 and
updated by the ICR mission (March 2012). The data presented in the tables below
representative for a typical potable water MP implemented by the AzRIP.




                                            41
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                     Responsibility/
          Names                          Title               Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
                           Senior Social Development
Daniel Owen                                                 ECSS4 TTL
                           Specialist
Rufiz Vakhid Chirag-Zade   Senior Operations Officer         ECSS1
Norpulat Daniyarov         Sr Financial Management Specia   ECSO3
Amy Evans                  Consultant                        ECSS1
Shahridan Faiez            Senior Social Development Spec    ECSS4
Karin Maria Fock           Consultant                       ECSSD
Satoshi Ishihara           Senior Social Development Spec   EASTS
Bakhtiyar Karimov          Senior Operations Officer        SEGOM
Martin Henry Lenihan       Senior Social Development Spec   LCSSO
Ida N. Muhoho              Sr Financial Management Specia   ECSO3
Irina Petrovna Novikova    Consultant                       EASER
Natalia Otel               Junior Professional Associate    ECSSD
Richard W. Pollard         Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.      MNSWA
Aditi Sen                  Consultant                       ENVCF
Hiwote Tadesse             Senior Program Assistant         ECSSD
Imogen Wade                Junior Professional Associate    ECSSD
Yingwei Wu                 Senior Procurement Specialist    LCSPT




                                          42
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                                               131.98
  FY03                                                               162.20
  FY04                                                               174.63
  FY05                                                                16.50
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00
                          Total:                                     485.31
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                                                 0.00
  FY03                                                                 0.10
  FY04                                                                 4.22
  FY05                                                               110.04
  FY06                                                               139.31
  FY07                                                               222.27
  FY08                                                               125.29
                          Total:                                     601.23




                                       43
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Short Description of the Beneficiary Surveys Results, Final Comprehensive Report

The beneficiary evaluation surveys were carried out by a consultancy company (Western
World Consultants, Canada) hired by the project. The surveys included the Baseline and
Evaluation Surveys, Focus Groups and Special Studies. The Special Studies were carried
out to assess impact of the road rehabilitation, potable water supply, small scale irrigation,
and school and clinic construction MPs.

   I.      Baseline and Evaluation Surveys

The objective of Baseline and Evaluation surveys was to provide AzRIP (i) with the end
of the project analysis on socio-economic situation in the project zones/regions (North,
Northwest, and Nakhchivan) and neighboring control villages, and (ii) to compare these
data with the baseline survey data reported in 2009. The evaluation survey was primarily
done through a household survey, based on stratified random sampling. Within all three
zones, specific rayons and communities were chosen based on socio-economic and
demographic indicators in order to develop a statistically representative sample frame.
Furthermore, an equal number of non-project communities (control villages) was also
randomly sampled in order to obtain a comparison between project and control villages in
the three economic zones in terms of the project impacts.

Methodology: The household evaluation survey was conducted in the project zones of
North, North-west, and Nakhchivan. In the selection of communities/rural settlements
and the households, Multistage Probability Sampling Technique was used. A sample
frame of rural settlements/villages (also called communities) with a population between
1,000 and 10,000 was constructed. All the villages (communities) in each zone were
listed in close collaboration with the Project Management Unit (PMU). The list gives the
description of all the villages. From this detailed list, the villages with a population
between 1,000 and 10,000 were selected and the villages with a population outside this
range were excluded from the sample frame. There were project and control villages and
in each zone 2,500 households were randomly selected. Thus, there were 7,500 sample
households for project villages and 7,500 sample households for control villages. The
methodology was the same as the baseline survey.

In the first stage, the communities/villages were randomly selected in both the control
and project economic zones. In the second stage, the households were randomly selected
in each randomly selected control and project communities/villages. Thus two stage
random sampling was used.

Control Villages. Based on discussions with the PMU, those villages, in the three
economic zones, which will not implement any micro-project under the project, based on
the “non-eligibility criteria?, were listed. The “non-eligible? ones are those not eligible at
the moment of the survey (although based on the AZRIP criteria of population
characteristics and infrastructure index they are eligible) because (i) there is no fund
under AZRIP-I to accommodate all the eligible communities/villages; and (ii) in some
                                             44
communities/ villages, a few activities under AZRIP-I started but stopped due to low
level of participation from the communities.
Based on field observations and analysis of the secondary data maintained by the Raions,
socio-economic status of the control and project villages was very similar at the baseline
stage. No Propensity Scoring Technique was used.

Poverty Level: Based on an AZN 75 per month income cut-off level for poverty, as per
the State Social Security Committee and Pension Fund, the poverty cut-off income is
AZN 900 per annum in real value. With an average annual income of AZN 3617
(baseline – AZN 3384) for the project villages and AZN 3540 (baseline – AZN 3277) for
the control village; on average, the sample households are well above the poverty cut-off
level income. Using the international cut-off income level of USD 2.15 AZN (AZN 1.69
at the current exchange rate) per capita per person per day, the annual poverty cut-off
income should be AZN 2,614 for an average family size of 4.3 (as was the case in
sampled households). Using the international criteria, all the project and control villages
show, on average, income above the poverty level. However, there were households
below this international cut-off level income of poverty (project villages – baseline 14%
and evaluation 9%) and (control villages - baseline 15% and evaluation 13%).



Annual Expenditures of the sampled households presented below shows that the
income and the expenditure patterns are quite similar in the project and control villages
and also across the economic zones with no significant differences.

                                                          Project villages              Non-project villages
                                                Baseline          Evaluation        Baseline      Evaluation
 Average annual expenditure, AZN                          3089               3367         3144             3277
 Average monthly expenditure, AZN                          258               280            262                273

Predominant expenditure structure at evaluation was as follows:
                             Project villages             Non-project villages
 Food                                      49%                               50%
 Clothing                                  11%                               10%
 Electricity                               10%                                 9%
 Gas                                       10%                                 9%
 Health care                                    7%                             7%
 School related                                 6%                             6%



The identified problems in the three economic zones: The analysis of the survey
results revealed the following major problems in both project and control villages.
     Bad or inadequate schools and kindergartens
     Water provision problems (inadequate and infrequent)
     Bad road access

                                                     45
        Inadequacy of healthcare
        Marketing problems for the agricultural products

All above mentioned problems are common for both the project and control villages of
the three regions. This information also shows the general priorities of community
members in all the villages. It is worthwhile to mention that the same types of project that
are considered priority by the communities/villages are also being funded as priority
grant projects under AzRIP. However, there are some unique problems for different
zones/regions, which are detailed in the following sections. It is critical to note that the
key problems have declined in the project villages in the evaluation survey as compared
to the baseline. This trend is seen across all the economic zones of the project villages.
However, in the control villages, in a number of cases, the key problems have increased
or remained the same as compared to the baseline. This trend is also seen across all the
economic zones of the control villages.

In the project villages, there were no significant differences among the three project
districts in terms of key problems in the area, as perceived by the sample respondents. As
stated earlier, the key problems have declined in the project villages in the evaluation
survey as compared to the baseline (see the table below presenting the survey results).
This trend is visible across all the economic zones of the project villages. In the control
villages, there were also no significant differences among the three control districts in
terms of key problems in the area, as perceived by the sample respondents. In general, in
the control villages, in a number of cases, the key problems have increased or remained
the same as compared to the baseline. This trend is also seen across all the economic
zones of the control villages.


                                                       Project villages             Non-project villages
                                               Baseline        Evaluation       Baseline      Evaluation
 Bad access to roads                                   80%                50%          70%             77%
 Insufficient marketing conditions for
 agricultural products                                 62%                56%          41%             49%
 Poor healthcare facilities                            54%                39%          55%             64%
 Inadequate and infrequent water provision             49%                25%          70%             74%
 Communal services like gas and electricity            49%                18%          40%             44%
 Bad or inadequate schools and kindergartens           55%                21%          66%             58%

Status of the drinking water and sewage systems: As shown in the table below, in the
project villages, there is a very significant increase in the number of people saying they
had no water problems in the evaluation survey, as compared to the baseline survey,
indicating project impact. None of the sample households had influent and sewage
disposal lines. In the control villages, on an overall basis, the figures are very similar for
the baseline and evaluation surveys. Regarding the water supply and quality, the figures
are very similar for the baseline and evaluation surveys. The sample households who
have no water problems are exclusively in the highest income group. None of the sample
households had influent and sewage disposal lines.

                                                  46
                                                       Project villages              Non-project villages
                                               Baseline        Evaluation        Baseline        Evaluation
 Water pipelines inside the house                      19%                21%           19%              19%
 Water pipes outside the house                         22%                20%           22%              22%
 Artificial wells (pit)                                18%                16%           18%              18%
 Artesian wells                                        22%                25%           21%              21%
 Spring water                                          18%                19%           19%              19%
 Water pipeline is missing                             38%                33%           38%              38%
 Irregular water supply                                31%                22%           30%              29%
 Bad water quality                                     26%                15%           26%              27%
 No water problems                                        5%              31%               6%                6%

Health Conditions: In the project villages, the survey revealed that a significant number
of respondents living close to village site hospitals or ambulatory clinics or Feldsheral
Midwife Point still visited village hospitals due to lack of facilities in the village clinics
(see the table below). However, the situation has showed improvement at the evaluation
stage as compared to the baseline stage. Regarding the rating of the infrastructure of the
hospital/clinic, the results reveal that the project villages of all three economic zones have
shown significant improvements in the rating of the infrastructure of the hospital/clinic
and the incidence of water borne diseases in the evaluation survey, as compared to the
baseline survey.

                                                       Project villages              Non-project villages
                                               Baseline        Evaluation        Baseline        Evaluation
 Share of respondents that considered
 themselves as relatively healthy                      96%                97%           96%              96%
 Respondents that went to the state owned
 facilities for the health related problems            94%                95%           92%              92%
 out of them those who went to:
     -    village hospitals                            52%                60%           53%              53%
     -    village site hospital                        21%                19%           22%              22%
     -    ambulatory clinics                           14%                11%           16%              15%
      - Feldsheral Midwife Point                       10%                9.2%              9%                8%
 Respondent ratings of the infrastructure of
 the hospital/clinic:
      - ‘deteriorated’ or ‘highly
          deteriorated’                                75%                21%           75%              74%
     -    ‘little deterioration’                       23%                19%           19%              19%
      - ‘fairly good condition’                           2%              34%               6%                6%
 Share of household members who had some
 sort of water borne disease in 2011                   80%                  7%          81%              53%
 % of them resorted to home treatment                  68%                34%           74%              68%




                                                  47
In the control villages, the survey revealed that the overwhelming majority of
respondents living close to village site hospitals or ambulatory clinics or Feldsheral
Midwife Point visited village hospitals due to lack of facilities in the village clinics.
Regarding the rating of the infrastructure of the hospital/clinic, the results reveal that the
control villages of all three economic zones have shown significant deterioration in the
rating of the infrastructure of the hospital/clinic in the evaluation survey, as compared to
the baseline survey. The improvements in the incidence of water borne diseases are more
in the project villages than in the control villages.

Women’s status in the sample households: The majority of surveyed women
respondents get consulted by their husbands, fathers, son, and brothers on financial
matters. As presented in the table below, in the project villages, the results show slight
improvement in the evaluation survey, as compared to the baseline survey, in
consultation with women on financial matters. In the control villages, there is no
significant change in the parameters since the baseline survey.

                                                  Project villages              Non-project villages
                                          Baseline        Evaluation        Baseline        Evaluation
 Share of female headed households                11%                11%           12%              12%
 Households headed by a male:
     -   women were often consulted               47%                48%           47%              46%
     -   women were sometimes consulted           44%                51%           44%              46%
     -   women never were consulted                  9%                1%              9%                8%
 Households headed by a female:
     -   women were often consulted               64%                65%           64%              62%
     -   women were sometimes consulted           32%                35%           33%              33%
     -   women never were consulted                  4%                0%              3%                5%



Time and distance taken to reach the Infrastructure facilities: In the project villages,
it can be observed that the average time spent to reach key destinations has decreased
significantly in the evaluation survey, as compared to the baseline survey, indicating
subproject effect (see the table below). There is a general decline in the transportation
costs at the evaluation stage, as compared to the baseline scenario. In the case of control
villages, there are no differences in the average time spent to reach key destinations,
average distance covered to reach key destinations, and the average cost in AZN for
transportation, comparing baseline and evaluation surveys. Furthermore, as started earlier,
for all the key infrastructure facilities the time spent to access them has significantly
declined in the evaluation stage, as compared to the baseline stage, due to the subprojects.
This is the scenario in all three economic zones




                                             48
                                                                     Project villages
                                                                                               Decline in
                                                                 Baseline,       Evaluation,
                                               Distance, km                                     time to
                                                                   min.             min.
                                                                                               access, %.
 Average time spent to reach:
     -     paved access road                              1.9              20            15          25%
     -     primary school/kindergarten                    0.7              10             7          49%
     -     secondary school                               1.2              15            10          49%
     -     community center                               0.5                5            4          20%
     -     clinic                                         0.9              10             8          18%
     -     village hospital                               4.5              39            22          44%
     -     central transportation point                   4.5              39            19          51%
     -     domestic water supply point                    4.5              39            11          72%
     -     park                                           1.1              11             7          36%
    - marketing point                                     4.5              39            16          59%
 Average cost in AZN for transportation (one
 way):
     -     village hospital                                               0.40          0.26
     -     central transportation point                                   0.40          0.22
     -     marketing point                                                 0.4          0.77

Rating of the infrastructure facilities by the sample respondents: In the project
villages, on an overall basis, the survey revealed that most of the infrastructure facilities,
wherein there was AzRIP intervention like access, roads, schools, potable water,
healthcare facilities etc., the ratings have improved considerably (many more
‘satisfactory’ ratings, increased ‘good’ ratings, and fewer ‘bad’ ratings) at the evaluation
stage as compared to the baseline stage. For some other subprojects, wherein the AzRIP
intervention was less (but financed by other donors), there have been improvements in
the ratings also. This holds true for the individual rayons. In the project villages, we can
see considerable improvement in satisfactory ratings:

‘Satisfactory’ rating results:
                                                       Project villages
                                               Baseline         Evaluation
 Access to roads                                       24%                 51%
 Bridges                                                  6%               43%
 Schools                                                  9%               44%
 Health facilities                                     12%                 44%
 Potable water supply                                  22%                 51%
 Water supply regularity                               14%                 51%
 Electricity connection                                   3%               51%
 Electricity regularity                                   3%               19%
 Gas supply                                               5%               51%
 Heating                                                  4%               51%

                                                  49
 Market places                                               7%               38%

As shown in the table below, the ‘poor’ ratings have declined considerably at the
evaluation stage in the project villages. The response of ‘no answer’ or ‘do not know’
considerably also declined in the evaluation survey as compared to the baseline survey. In
the control villages, on an overall basis, the survey revealed that most of the
infrastructure facilities were rated as ‘poor’ by the sample communities, although the
situation has improved slightly (with little more ‘satisfactory’ ratings and slightly fewer
‘poor’ ratings) in the evaluation stage, as compared to the baseline stage. This holds true
for the individual rayons also. Unlike the project villages, two of the predominant
responses were ‘no answer’ or ‘do not know’.

‘Poor’ rating results:
                                                          Project villages                   Non-project villages
                                                  Baseline        Evaluation            Baseline       Evaluation
 Access roads                                             74%                 36%               74%             71%
 Bridges                                                  56%                 35%               58%             57%
 Public transportation                                    71%                 72%               68%             66%
 Preschool /kindergarten                                  41%                 37%               46%             45%
 Primary school                                           97%                 47%               94%             90%
 Secondary school                                         69%                 37%               73%             71%
 Health facilities                                        73%                 44%               80%             78%
 Community centers                                        26%                 25%               30%             29%
 Potable water supply connection at home                  58%                 33%               67%             58%
 Water supply regularity                                  64%                 46%               73%             70%
 Electricity connection and regularity                    96%                 46%               95%             93%
 Gas supply                                               84%                 44%               83%             80%
 Heating                                                  96%                 49%               95%             92%
 Access to market place                                   72%                 61%               68%             66%

Project Implementation and Identification: In the project villages, on an overall basis,
The respondents had the following experience in implementing projects:

                                                                                    Project villages
                                                                             Baseline         Evaluation
 Share of respondents that had experience in implementing a project
 before AzRIP                                                                       40%                 41%
 Share of respondents that did not have any project implementation
 experience before AzRIP                                                            60%                 59%
 Among the projects implemented by respondents:
     -     Project funded by the foreign donors                                     67%                 67%
     -     Project funded by central government                                     16%                 19%
     -     Project funded by local government                                       11%                 12%
     -     Project funded from others sources or by communities                         6%                 2%

                                                     50
At that, the predominant typologies of the projects implemented were as follows:
                                                                    Project villages
                                                              Baseline        Evaluation
 Potable water supply                                                17%               24%
 Sewerage and drainage system                                        10%                   6%
 Secondary roads/bridges                                                 9%            13%
 Small scale local electricity distribution                          27%               26%
 Schools and kindergarten                                            17%               16%
 Health centers                                                          7%                4%
 Community centers                                                       1%                1%
 Parks                                                                   4%                2%
 Small-scale irrigation                                                  7%            10%
This analysis was not conducted for control villages since it is not relevant.

Influence in the community decision making process: In the project villages, there has
been a very significant improvement in the community’s influence in the decision making
process at the evaluation stage as compared to the baseline stage. On an overall basis,
54% (baseline - 30%) said they had influence in the decision making process. In the
control villages, though there is slight improvement in the community’s influence in the
decision making process at the evaluation stage as compared to the baseline stage, the
results are not significant. On an overall basis, only 28% (baseline - 27%) said they had
influence in the decision making process.

Level of satisfaction of community people with the implemented infrastructure
project
under AzRIP: Here the benefited respondents were posed questions on their satisfaction
level with respect to the accrued benefits of the implemented subproject (under AaRIP).
This question is applicable only to the project villages. In all three zones, the satisfaction
rate was close to 100%.

Aspects that influenced in the decision making process concerning the priority
subprojects under AzRIP and the overall satisfaction level with the selected priority
subprojects: The majority of respondents (about 82%) in the project villages have been
influenced by the community needs in selection of priority project, based on several
community meetings in prioritizing the subprojects. The others made the decision under
influences of personal needs (18%). About 95% of household in project communities
were ‘very satisfied’ and ‘satisfied’ with selected priorities listed in the questionnaire.
The responses are very similar in the three economic zones.

    II.      Focus Group Study

The purpose of the Focus Group Study (FGS) was to collect qualitative data to gain
deeper insights to better interpret survey-based quantitative data. FGS primarily relied on
open ended discussion using un/semi-structured discussion guide. The Consultant

                                              51
prepared the FGS Discussion Guide that corresponded with the questionnaire for baseline
survey (relevant topics). To capture the above qualitative variables, a very comprehensive
‘Focus Group Study was embarked in the project regions of North, North-west and
Nakhchivan.

There were 24 completed MPs in North, 50 in North-west, and 17 in Nakhchivan with a
total of 91 completed MPs as of July 2010. Out of this, 24 completed MPs were selected
in North, 30 in North-west, and 17 in Nakhchivan (total of 71) for the FGS. The
participants were community members, rayon officials and other stakeholders of the
randomly selected MPs. The session was highly interactive and there was a moderator
with written-down questions for an orderly conduct of the group meeting. The entire team
of international and national consultants took part in the study, which took place from
July 1 to July 28, 2010.

Community Participation in the Subproject Cycles. 2130 respondents were
interviewed, including 431 women respondents. Overall weighted average of
participation in the MP cycle is 68% and while for women it is 56% and the survey
results by the subproject cycles as presented below:

                                                                        Project villages
                                                             All respondents    Women respondents
 Participation in Community Development Works                     84%                      71%
 Participation in Capacity Building Session                       56%                      52%
 Participation in Project Proposal Design Activities              61%                      45%
 Participation in Tender and Procurement Processes                60%                      38%
 Participation in Technical Implementation Processes              89%                      74%
 Participation in Handover Process                                58%                      58%
 Overall weighted average of participation in the MP cycle        68%                      56%

It is important to note that over 90% of the respondents were satisfied or very satisfied
with the help given by the Rayon Authorities and the PMU during the MP cycle. This
was seen in all three project regions. About 84% (North = 80%, North West = 83%, and
Nakhchivan = 88%), said they had difficulty, at least initially, in understanding the
procurement process and procedures.

The identified problems in the three economic zones: The analysis of the Focus Group
Discussion (FGD) results revealed the following major problems in villages:
    Bad or inadequate schools and kindergartens
    Water provision problems (inadequate and infrequent)
    Bad road access
    Inadequacy of healthcare
    Marketing problems for the agricultural products

FGD revealed that, on an overall basis, about 67% of the participants complained about
the bad access roads, about 61% complained about insufficient marketing conditions for

                                                       52
the agricultural products, 48% complained about the poor healthcare facilities, 38%
complained about inadequate and infrequent water provision, 40% complained about
communal services like gas and electricity and only 32% complained about bad or
inadequate schools and kindergartens. There were no significant differences among the
three project districts in terms of key problems in the area, as perceived by the
participants. During FGD, initially, the answers were given by the community leaders.
The team observers requested everybody to give their opinion. The participants were
asked to raise their hands for each question, based on responses like ‘bad’, ‘good’, and
‘do not know’.

Status of the drinking water and sewage systems: On an overall basis, only about 17%
of the participants had water pipeline inside the house, about 18% had pipes outside the
house, 18% had artificial wells (pit), 18% had artesian wells, and 19% had spring water.
Regarding the water supply and quality, about 32% said the water pipeline is missing,
37% complained of irregular water supply, 30% complained of bad water quality. The
participants who have no water problem are exclusively in the highest income group.
None of the participants had influent and sewage disposal lines.

Health issues: The analysis revealed that 97% of the participants considered themselves
as ‘relatively healthy’. About 94% of the participants went to the state owned facilities
for the health related problems. Out of this, 51% went to the village hospitals, 22% to
village site hospitals, 15% to ambulatory clinics, and 10% to Feldsheral Midwife Point.
FGD revealed that the majority of the participants living close to village site hospitals,
ambulatory clinics or Feldsheral Midwife Point visited village hospitals due to lack of
facilities in the village clinics. Regarding the rating of the infrastructure of the
hospital/clinic, about 68% said it is ‘deteriorated’ or ‘highly deteriorated’, 22% said ‘little
deterioration’, and 5% said ‘fairly good condition’.

Time and distance taken to reach the Infrastructure facilities: This discussion needed
a significant amount of time because of the complexity of the issues. In addition, the
participants were not consistent with their answers. Hence, semi-structured
questionnaires were distributed to all the participants and were requested to write their
answers. The average was calculated for each region. There is also no significant
difference among the three rayons. The average time spent to reach a paved access road is
about 18 minutes, 11 minutes for primary school/kindergarten, 14 minutes for secondary
school, 6 minutes for the community center, 8 minutes for a clinic, 35 minutes for village
hospital, 35 minutes for central transportation point, 35 minutes for domestic water
supply point, 8 minutes for park, and 35 minutes for the marketing point.

Relationship with the Municipalities: Most of the participants did not respond to this
question because they do not directly interact with the municipality. However, the
community leaders among the participants responded for this question. Over 90% of the
community leaders responded that the relationship was ‘good’ to ‘excellent’. It is
important to note that during the FGD, there were Rayon Level Officials present. This
might have prompted the participants to respond in a very positive manner.



                                              53
Usage (frequency, purposes) of infrastructure: The discussions revealed that the
infrastructure facilities created/rehabilitated under AzRIP were used for the purpose
intended. In a few subprojects pertaining to the domestic water supply and small scale
irrigation, the water was used for livestock and this lead to conflicts. However, most of
the conflicts were amicably resolved. In the case of road subprojects, the two main
purposes of usage were transportation to the town and marketing of agricultural produce.
The participants, who were farmers, used the road for both purposes. About 55% of the
Focus Group participants used the road every day and 100% of the participants used the
road at least once in a week. In the case of domestic water supply subprojects, all the
respondents used for domestic water needs, while about 15% (mostly livestock owners)
used the water for livestock, leading to conflicts. All the participants used the water every
day. In the case of small-scale irrigation subprojects, the participants (who were farmers)
used it for the irrigation purposes and about 28% for domestic water needs and livestock.
During the cropping season, the Water Users Association distributed the water, based on
cropping pattern and land size. The conflicts were resolved amicably. Some of the
participants bitterly complained that during critical times, the water was used by the
influential people in the villages. With reference to the schools subprojects, all the
participants were very happy with the rehabilitation works. The participants opined that
the enrollment has increased significantly in the rehabilitated schools due to better
classrooms and improved heating in the winter. With reference to the health clinic
subprojects, the participants said they could visibly see the improvement. Before the
rehabilitation works, people seldom went to the rural clinics because they were very
dilapidated. After the rehabilitation works, on an overall basis, 4% visited the clinic once
in a week, 13% once in a week, 75% once in a quarter, and 8% once in a year.

User/community contribution for infrastructure maintenance: FGD dealt elaborately
with this topic. In all the rayons, FGD revealed that the Operations and Maintenance Plan
was developed at the time of the project proposal. Once the project was approved, minor
modifications were made. It was also updated during implementation. Depending on the
type of the subproject, User Associations were also formed. There were members of these
User Associations in the FGD. In all the rayons, 100% of the participants contributed
towards O&M annually. FGD analysis also revealed that an overwhelming majority of
the participants considered that the O&M contribution is adequate. The Community
Leaders mentioned that there were significant delays in the collection of money for O&M
purposes. There were lot of poor households and they could not give on time because of
lack of money. In some case, in all the rayons, very poor households contributed in form
of labor. The collected funds were used for the purposed intended.

   III.     SPECIAL STUDIES

   1) Impact of potable water supply rehabilitation subprojects in North, North-
      West, and Nakhchivan zones

The objectives of the study were: (i) To study the satisfaction of the sample households
vis-à-vis potable water facilities before and after the subproject implementation; and (ii)



                                             54
To study the time and distance taken to fetch water before and after the subproject
implementation.

Methodology. The study was conducted in the project economic zones of North, North-
west, and Nakhchivan. First stage of random sampling was used to select the villages that
benefited from the potable water supply rehabilitation sub/micro-projects and once the
villages were selected, the second stage random sampling was used to select the
households benefited by the potable water supply rehabilitation sub/micro-projects. Since
there are only 17 completed MPs and these are dispersed among different villages in
these economic zones, all the project villages were sampled that is all the subprojects
were sampled. The neighboring control villages were sampled for comparative analysis.
These control villages have not benefited from any potable water supply subprojects
funded by donors or the Government. The sample size for the project villages was 400 for
North, 400 for Northwest, and 2800 for Nakhchivan (total of 3600 households) in
proportion to the number of benefited households. The sample size for the control
villages (non-project) was 400 for North, 400 for Northwest, and 800 for Nakhchivan
(total of 1600 households).

Awareness of AzRIP. Based on the responses from the head of the households, in all the
three zones, 100% of the households were aware of AzRIP in the project villages and
43% of the households were aware of AzRIP in the control villages.

Beneficiaries of the Potable Water Supply Rehabilitation Sub-project. Based on the
responses from the head of the households, in all the three zones of the project villages,
100% of the households benefited from the potable water supply subprojects in the
project villages. This data is not applicable for the control villages (non project villages).

Satisfaction with the Potable Water Supply Rehabilitation Subproject. The overall
satisfaction percentage with respect to the potable water supply rehabilitation sub-project
is 87% (North = 91%, Northwest = 93%, and Nakhchivan = 86%). This data is not
applicable for the control villages (non project villages).

Problems with the Potable Water Supply. As shown in the table below, in the project
villages, impact of potable water supply subproject is very significant as presented in the
table below. The same trend was noticed in all the project villages in the three zones.
Thus, the comparative analysis proves that the potable water supply subprojects have had
significant impact in reducing the problems associated with the potable water supply,
while in the control villages the potable water supply infrastructure has deteriorated over
a period of two years.




                                             55
                                                        Project villages              Non-project villages
                                                Baseline        Evaluation        Baseline        Evaluation
 Main water pipe line is missing or in bad
 condition                                              38%                10%           38%              49%
 Bad or irregular water supply                          31%                16%           30%              34%
 Bad water quality                                      26%                  8%          26%              29%
 No problems related to potable water                      5%              66%               6%                0%

Decline in the Incidence of Water Borne Diseases due to the Subproject. In the
project villages there is a definite decrease in the incidence of water borne diseases as
presented in the table below. This trend can be noted in the project villages of the three
zones. While in the control villages there is a significant increase in the incidence of
water borne diseases. This trend can be noted in all the three zones.

                                                        Project villages              Non-project villages
                                                Baseline        Evaluation        Baseline        Evaluation
 Incidence of water borne diseases occurring:
     -    every month                                      2%                1%              2%                9%
     -    once in three months                          23%                16%           21%              27%
     -    once in six months                            26%                20%           24%              32%
     -    once in a year                                49%                37%           52%              68%



Hours Spent by the Household Women to Fetch Water. In the project villages, the
time taken by the female households to fetch water has significantly declined. The overall
time taken in hours to fetch at the baseline scenario was 0.34 hours and it has declined to
0.18 hours in the current scenario (46% decline). This positive trend can be seen in the
project villages of all three zones.

The time taken by the female households to fetch water has increased slightly in some
control villages and in some others has decreased slightly (the increases and the
decreases are statistically insignificant). The overall time taken in hours to fetch at the
baseline scenario was 0.37 hours and it has declined to 0.35 hours in the current scenario
(5% decline).

     2) Impact analysis of road rehabilitation subprojects in North, North-West, and
        Nakhchivan zones

Objectives of the Study. The following are the key objectives of the study: (i) To study
the price differentials in crop prices13 before and after the road rehabilitation sub-projects



13
  The prices in this study refer to the ‘average price that farmers receive after selling the
product in the nearest market’.

                                                   56
in the three economic zones; (ii) To study the price differentials in livestock prices before
and after the road rehabilitation sub-projects in the three economic zones; (iii) To study
the International Roughness Index (IRI) for roads in the project area before and after the
road rehabilitation sub-projects; and (iv) To study the average daily traffic in Project area
before and after the road rehabilitation sub-projects

Methodology to study the Objectives (i) and (ii):i) To study the price differentials in crop
prices before and after the road rehabilitation sub-projects in the three economic zones;
and (ii) To study the price differentials in livestock prices before and after the road
rehabilitation sub-projects in the three economic zones.

The study was conducted in the project economic zones of North, North-west, and
Nakhchivan. First stage of random sampling was used to select the villages that
benefited from the road rehabilitation sub/micro-projects and once the villages were
selected, the second stage random sampling was used to select the farm households
benefited by the road rehabilitation sub/micro-projects. Since there were 113 completed
MPs and these were dispersed among different villages in these economic zones, careful
sampling selection was adopted to prevent estimation bias. In addition, the selected
activity should have been completed at least a year before the survey to study their full
impact. Moreover, control villages (adjoining villages without road rehabilitation sub-
project) were also used for comparative analysis study the price differentials in crop and
livestock prices, before and after the road rehabilitation sub-projects.

Methodology to study the Objective (iii): To study the International Roughness Index
(IRI) for roads in the project area before and after the road rehabilitation sub-projects.
Quality of roads is an important factor to reducing transportation cost. In particular, the
smoother the road is, the lower the operating expenses for transportation means are. Time
saving is higher and service life duration is longer as well. Under the project (also
control), road smoothness was measured by the weighted International Roughness Index
(IRI) developed by the World Bank.

IRI is the main indicator describing and measuring the state and quality of the road
surface. Before rehabilitation works, it is measured and inputted into the Highway Design
and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM) model to develop the most economically
efficient strategy for the road rehabilitation, depending on the IRI actual value.
Depending on the category of the road and quality of the surface, the World Bank ranks
IRI values as Good, Satisfactory, Bad or Very Bad.

According to the measurements taken at the beginning of the subproject implementation,
the rough average was 11.4 m/km for North, 12.6 m/km for Northwest, and 14.2 m/km
for Nakhchivan, which means the roads conditions were very bad before the subproject
implementation.

Methodology to study the Objective (iv): To study the average daily traffic in Project
area before and after the road rehabilitation sub-projects. In order to measure the
increase in vehicular activity, the indicator of average daily traffic in specific village road

                                              57
sections was used. This indicator shows the average daily number of cars in certain road
sections weighted for the respective sections’ length. In fact, it is determined by the
passenger transportation volumes through particular road sections. The analyses of traffic
and vehicles’ breakdown per types allows justifying to what extent and degree the
technical and transportation and operating parameters correspond to the current and
expected vehicular activity, calculating the transportation and cargo levels, monitoring
the wearing-out process of road surface, as well as increasing the efficiency of funds
spent on the renovation and maintenance of roads. In particular, the results of the
vehicular activities monitoring are used for:
• Planning and implementation of current maintenance of roads,
• Feasibility studies and substantiation of the need for auxiliary structures and adjacent
equipment on-road, and
• Development and implementation of measures on road traffic safety.

It is necessary to know the number of cars passing on a certain road section in various
times a day, for different seasons. Ideally, a seasonal coefficient could be used and, in
addition, precise calculations are needed with measurements taken at all seasons
throughout. However, due to the (i) paucity of such data and (ii) the baseline did not use
seasonal coefficient, a simple average of traffic in two months was used and such data
was averaged for daily traffic. Hence, it is necessary to have the number of cars passing
through the road section per following categories:

1.      Passenger car – below 1.5 tones
2.      Passenger car - above 1.5 tones
3.     Minivan
4.      Small bus
5.      Large bus
6.     2-axis truck
7.     3-axis truck
8.     4- and above axis trucks
9.     Motorbike
10.    Horse and other carriages

The data was collected through visual observations in road sections according to a pre-
defined and approved observations schedule. The observations in each road section were
taken at seven days per week for two months. The observations were performed
uninterrupted for 24 hours per day though recordings, broken down per types and
quantities of vehicles.

Key Findings

(i) The price differentials in crop prices before and after the road rehabilitation sub-
projects in the three economic zones; and (ii) The price differentials in livestock prices
before and after the road rehabilitation sub-projects in the three economic zones.




                                             58
The survey was conducted as per the methodology indicated above. The average response
rate was 100% in all the economic zones (project benefited and project non-benefited –
control villages). In all the project benefited villages, 100% of the sampled beneficiary
households were aware of AzRIP. In the project non-benefited (control) villages, only
54% were aware of the sub/micro-projects.

Project Villages: The crops and livestock prices showed significant price increases (in
both inflation unadjusted and inflation adjusted scenarios) due to better roads. The
inflation unadjusted price increase ranged from 14% to 49% and the inflation adjusted
price increase (adjusted by the consumer price index) ranged from 12% to 41%. This
increase is due to the fact that the farmers could move their produce to the nearest whole
sale market or could sell their directly to the people in the nearby towns. In all three
zones, 100% of the farm households sold their produce outside and the overall amount of
crop produce sold was 61% and the livestock produce sold was 81%. The rest was
retained for the household consumption. Furthermore, in the subproject villages, about
82% of the produce was sold directly to the people in the nearby towns/city and only 18%
was sold locally to the traders at a significantly lesser price.

Control Villages: The crops and livestock prices showed some significant price increases
on an inflation unadjusted basis, while on an inflation adjusted basis the price increases
were rather insignificant. The inflation unadjusted price increase ranged from 3% to 18%
(project benefited villages = 14% to 49%) and the inflation adjusted price increase ranged
from 1% to 11% (project benefited villages = 12% to 41%). This big price differential
between the project and control villages is due to the fact that the farmers in the
subproject villages could move their produce easily to the nearest wholesale market or
could sell their produce directly to the people in the nearby towns/city due to good
quality roads, while the farmers in the control villages are forced to sell their produce
locally due to bad roads and higher transportation costs. In all three zones, as in the
project villages, 100% of the farm households sold their produce outside. However, in the
control villages, the overall amount of crop produce sold was 60% and the livestock
produce sold was 78%. The rest was retained for household consumption. Furthermore,
in the control villages, only 23% of the produce was sold directly to the people in the
nearby towns/city and 77% was sold locally to the traders at a significantly lesser price.

The regional breakdown of the survey results are presented below:
                                                                            Non-project
                                                         Project villages
                                                                             villages
 Crops sold outside:
     -   North region                                               65%               62%
     -   Northwest region                                           62%               65%
     -   Nakhchivan                                                 57%               55%
 On average                                                         61%               60%
 Livestock produce sold outside:
     -   North region                                               84%               79%
     -   Northwest region                                           81%               80%
     -   Nakhchivan                                                 78%               76%

                                           59
 On average                                                          81%                78%
 Crops/livestock produce sold directly to the people in the nearby
 towns/city
     -    North region                                               81%                24%
     -    Northwest region                                           86%                27%
     -    Nakhchivan                                                 79%                19%
 On average                                                          82%                23%
 Crops/livestock produce sold locally to the traders at a
 significantly lesser price
     -    North region                                               19%                76%
     -    Northwest region                                           14%                73%
     -    Nakhchivan                                                 21%                81%
 On average                                                          18%                77%

The International Roughness Index (IRI) for roads in the project area before and after
the road rehabilitation sub-projects: As stated earlier, road smoothness was measured by
the weighted International Roughness Index (IRI) developed by the World Bank.

Project Village Roads: IRI score has considerably declined (showing better quality road)
after the road rehabilitation subprojects. Before the subprojects implementation, IRI
ranking was 10 in all three zones, which indicates very bad quality roads. After the
subproject implementation, the overall IRI ranking is 4 (North = 4, Northwest = 4, and
Nakhchivan = 6), which indicates good quality roads. Based on further IRI analysis of the
subproject benefited roads, 76% of the roads can be classified as ‘good’ in North, 79% in
Northwest, 41% in Nakhchivan, and 65% overall, while 24% of the roads can be
classified as ‘satisfactory’ in North, 21% in Northwest, 59% in Nakhchivan, and 35%
overall. The percentage of ‘bad’ and ‘very bad’ roads went down to zero after the
subproject interventions.

Control Village Roads: IRI evaluation in the control villages shows ‘bad’ to ‘very bad’
road conditions in all three zones in 2009 and 2011.

The average daily traffic has increased significantly in the project villages after the road
rehabilitation subprojects. This trend is found in all three economic zones.




                                                     60
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Before the project closing time in March 2012, AzRIP PMU conducted the “AzRIP
Stakeholder Workshop? with the participation of the Task Team and representatives of
International, National and Regional NGOs, government projects funded by the World
Bank, IFAD and other finance institutions, and by independent experts. At the workshop
the participants discussed the successful collaboration of AzRIP with analogical projects,
lessons learned associated with this field, as well as benefits from collaboration with
AzRIP during the implementation of other projects and the impact of AzRIP Community
Networking on the performance of other Community Development Stakeholders.
Suggestions and recommendations were also provided for more efficient operation of
AzRIP-2 and for gaining more achievements in improving the living conditions of
beneficiaries.




                                           61
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Assessment of the Operation’s Objective, Design, Implementation, and Operational
Experience

The Original AzRIP development credit agreement 3912AZ was signed on September 23,
2004 and effectiveness date of credit agreement is 18 January, 2005. The Original Project
was implemented from 18 January, 2005 to 31 March, 2009. The initial phase of the
Project covers three economic zones: Mughan Salyan, Lower Shirvan and Nakhchivan
comprising 21 rayons totally. Total number of beneficiaries under original AzRIP was
915,060.

The Additional Financing for AzRIP was approved by the Executive Directors of WB in
March 2008 right after the negotiations held in February 2008. The Additional Financing
would allow AzRIP to expand the geographical range of all its components to reach
approximately 700,000 beneficiaries in 24 new districts in Northern and Northwestern
areas of the country as well as to continue operations in the Autonomous Republic of
Nakhchivan Financing Agreement between the Azerbaijan Government and IDA, on
Additional Financing for AzRIP were signed in 20 April, 2009 and effectiveness date of
this agreement is 12 June, 2009.

The AzRIP Development Objective is for households in rural communities completing
community-project investments to improve living standards and increase the use of
infrastructure services. For the Additional Financing the PDO was slightly changed. It
was proposed to add one additional intermediate outcome indicator for strengthening the
Results Framework. Therefore the revision was “for households in rural communities
completing community-project investments to improve living standards through
improved access to infrastructure services?. The PDO progress would be measured by the
indicators including: i) increased household use of local infrastructure; ii) improved
operation and maintenance of local infrastructure services; iii) Increased participation of
project beneficiaries in investment decision making and implementation.

The overall goal of AzRIP is to support rural communities in completing infrastructure
Community Projects that improve their living standards and increase the use of
infrastructure services. In this development, Capacity Enhancement is the tool to obtain
the purposes and objectives.

Component A - Infrastructure.
Objective: Improved household access to infrastructure services
This component funded grants for 642 rural infrastructure Community Projects: 340 in
2005-2008 and 302 rural Community Projects in 2009-2012 within Additional Financing.
Villages and/or communities, including clusters of smaller communities, with a
population greater than 1,000 and less than 10,000 are eligible to participate in the project.
(For Nakhchivan this figure is 600- 10,000). Those below 1,000 inhabitants can associate
with neighboring villages to meet the population threshold. Those below 1,000
inhabitants can associate with neighboring villages to meet the population threshold.

                                             62
In order to strengthen the engineering capacity of the communities, PMU hired a
Technical Design Company for each of the Project Operation zones. These companies
support the communities in preparing better project proposals (for example, by
elaborating project options at the pre-feasibility level) and justifying the best technical,
economic, social, and environmental project solution at the feasibility level. The existing
geophysical and social conditions in the neighborhood also are considered by the
Technical Design Companies when designing community projects.

In order to ensure adherence to existing national standards (based on SNIP – the Soviet
construction norms and regulations), and at the same time to avoid over-design, the PMU
engineers have prepared design standards including technical specifications and operation
and maintenance rules for typical AzRIP interventions, such as roads, irrigation and
drainage systems, potable water supply, public buildings, and electrical distribution
networks. These design standards were revised and improved by the International
Engineering Consultant afterwards to facilitate the preparation of project proposals in a
professional manner, and avoid poor project design due to lack of knowledge or
negligence.

Lessons Learned. Several lessons learned were incorporated to Additional Financing
from the original AzRIP and other CD Stakeholder experiences. In the original AzRIP,
projects with total cost under US$ 50,000 were approved by Regional Grants Approval
Committee while those above US$ 50,000 were approved by the Working Group and the
World Bank in accordance to the OM. However, it was necessary to reconsider this
ceiling due to the increase in the prices of construction materials. It has therefore been
agreed that this ceiling be raised US$ 85,000. The average size of community projects
was increased to US$ 55,000. For the reason of inflation, it has also been agreed that the
beneficiary cost limitation be increased from US$ 18 to US$ 22. This increase was
essentially equivalent to the amount of inflation since implementation began.

Given that AzRIP intervenes in poor communities the original requirement that the
beneficiary contribution (10 percent) include at least five percent in cash has often proven
difficult, resulting in needy communities dropping out of the program. It has therefore
been agreed that, while the minimum 10 percent beneficiary contribution will remain in
force, only two percent of these would be required to be in cash.
Component B: Capacity enhancement

Objective: Increased stakeholders’ capacity to identify, implement, and operate
community projects

Under this component, communities should progressively reach a number of
achievements : (i) active and broad-based participation in entire Community Project
process; (ii) elect representation on CP Committee and reach consensus on Community
Project choice; (iii) select a legal entity, or establish one, for the implementation and
follow-up operations and maintenance of the CP; (iv) raise a substantial Community
Contribution for the CP; (v) accept and conform to the AzRIP operating procedures and

                                            63
implement the CP accordingly; (vi) implement and deliver the Community Project as per
the terms of the Cooperation Agreement; and (vii) learn in the process (participate in
various institutional capacity exercises during outreach and preparation, and during
implementation) and become responsible “owners? of the output of the investment.

Within the framework of Capacity Enhancement Component, 717 rural communities
have been mobilized through PRA tools. Overall number of community members who
participated at mobilization workshops was 166,518 who represented about 1,900,000
members of the population. 10 PRA tools that were most appropriate to the development
level of local communities were used: Community Mapping, Historical Background,
Problem Identification, Needs Prioritization, Trend Line, Venn Diagram, Community
Group Selection, Strategic Planning, Sociologic Map and Economic Analysis of Priorities.
Later experience showed that applying Trend Line and Venn Diagram tools in the rural
communities create some challenges for mobilizers. It was challenging because questions
of these tools were partly shared with participants during other tools. So, these tools were
tiring and time consuming for community members. On the other hand, many questions
related to these tools were causing conflicts on quite different topics not concerning the
workshop participants. For example, community members were arguing with post
officers regarding the delay of pension, and comments on the role of local Ex.Com in
community turned to political/opposition discussions, etc. For this reason, application of
both PRA tools in communities was stopped.

In general, PRA workshops have an exceptional role in strengthening values like
participation, solidarity, democracy, joint intervention and approach to needs and
confidence to solve them, and trust in and reliance on leaders. They also helped create a
new approach to forming a sense of ownership over projects and the community as well
as the initiative to build civil society, etc.

It should be noted that, after evaluation 114 communities out of mobilized 717
communities were declined at different stages of MP Cycle for different reasons. 47
communities were declined during mobilization due to lack of readiness to mobilize; 54
were declined at time of training (because of low attendance or lack of interest to
proposed topics), Project Proposal development and appraisal stages; and eight
communities were declined after the Cooperation Agreement was signed as they failed to
collect a sufficient community cash contribution. Later, 13 of the declined communities
collaborated with AzRIP again and benefited from community grants.

703 Community Groups were provided with five-day training packages that included the
following topics i) AzRIP Information Training, ii) Institutional Management, iii) CP
Proposal Development, iv) Community Contracting and Procurement and v)
Environmental Awareness. With the help of these trainings the participant Community
Groups obtained necessary knowledge and skills on effective CP planning based on
successful experiences, technical implementation, monitoring, recording, handover as
well as procurement and environmental issues.




                                            64
Community Network. Community Networking under AzRIP is built on sharing and
disseminating best practices and lessons learned, facilitating integration, business
relations formation and cross fertilization for the development of communities. The
network has been established at the initiative of AzRIP PMU and is managed by events
and activities that bring together community groups, municipalities, representatives of
local and central government, National and International NGOs, CD Stakeholders,
Embassies and potential donors. Within the project years of 2005-2012 214 intra-zone
cross fertilization visits, 4 Inter-zone Cross Visits Session, 17 Regional Capacity
Building Conferences and 3 National Community Investment Conferences have been
held under the network. The community network included a number of national and
international NGOs and organizations.

Community Networking enabled the participation of community members and other
stakeholders at Environmental (15), Gender (6) and Sustainability (8) workshops too.
Grand Opening Ceremonies were held for 74 Community Projects. PMU, Rayon
Ex.Coms, Rayon Education and Health Departments, Cabinet of Ministers, Deputy
Minister of Health, Speaker of Nakhchivan AR Parliament, Vice-speakers, Prime
Minister of Nakhchivan, Nakchivan Parliament Members, Heads of Rayon Ex.Coms, WB
Country office, WB AzRIP Task Team, Members of the National Parliament, the
Ambassador of Japan in the country and many other representatives from different
institutions and civil society participated in the CP Grand Opening Ceremonies.

As a result of knowledge, experience and leadership skills acquired under Capacity
Enhancement Component – in particular lessons learned, exchange of leadership skills,
access to donors and central government, increased sense of ownership and self reliance
gained through Community Networking, communities succeeded funding and
implementing many other self-funded, donor and government supported Community
Projects. After completing the AzRIP funded CPs, communities had 1219 CPs
community/municipality funded, 110 using the funds from donors and 340 CPs with the
support of the government. The total amount of these CPs are specified as:

Community/municipality (1219)              US$ 18,445,000
Donor funds (110)                          US$ 4,280,000
Government funds (340)                     US$ 4,283,205

Component C: Project Management
Objective: Well-managed project activities
Azerbaijan Rural Investment Project was named one of the 12 winners in the World
Bank’s annual ‘Improving the Lives of People in Europe and Central Asia’ 2010
competition.

Operational Review. The Bank contracted with the firm Central Asia Business
Consultants Inc. (CABC) to carry out an operational review of the project. The review
included verification and assessment of the adequacy of the accounting and financial
management and systems (accounting, internal control, budgeting, procurement, contracts
administration, payments, reporting) adopted in implementing community sub-projects.
                                          65
The verification covered transactions on a sample basis to ascertain that the procedures
actually used are transparent and comply with the agreed OM, and that adequate tracking
and monitoring mechanisms are in place for the usage of project funds by appropriate
regions, communities, and regional offices.

Cost-Benefit analysis of Community MPs was carried out by the independent consultant
in 2010. The findings in the Final Report point to significant positive impact of AzRIP
investments, especially from investments in irrigation. The average Net Present Value of
irrigation projects reviewed was US$ 9.5 million – 300 projects representing a 297 time
multiplication of the project cost value. The average NPV of potable water provision is
estimated at over three times the project cost value.

Financial Management. The PMU FM staff has relevant experience and educational
background. Project accounting records are maintained in a 1C-based accounting system.
The system is properly maintained and PMU has established a reliable internal control
framework over financial operations of the project. The PMU’s accounting records are
accurate and reliable; acceptable audit reports and IFRs of the project have been
submitted within agreed deadlines, except for Q2 2009 IFRs for which the submission
was delayed due to customization of the accounting software.

The disbursement schedule in the Financing Agreement was agreed to be of only one
disbursement category for all types of project expenditures, which could be funded up to
100 percent by the Additional Financing. It was agreed that the Government counterpart
funding would be used exclusively for the funding of community projects. Some
community projects would be funded 100 percent under the IDA Financing and others
completely under the counterpart funds. This resulted with excellent facilitation for
managing the project’s cash flow and avoiding delayed payments

Originally the AzRIP grant was used to be transferred in three tranches to the sub-account
of the Grant Recipient (NGO or municipality) and Grant Recipient transfers this fund to
the account of the sub-contractor. These multistage transfers frequently created problems.
In the beginning, the project faced a lack of understanding from some government
structures (Tax Department, local Executive Structures, etc.), which sometimes resulted
in unreasonable obstacles and challenges. In addition, waste of a certain amount of funds
occurred as a result of this multistage transfer of funds. For these reasons it had
previously been agreed that AzRIP could make direct payments to contractors on an
exceptional basis. However, the scope of the problem increased such that it has now been
agreed that direct payments would be the norm. This change minimized external
interference, and prevented the waste of funds.

Procurement. As per agreed and approved Procurement Plan for procurement of goods
and non-consulting services, the “Shopping? method was mostly used, except in
procurement of vehicles through ICB method. For the consulting services, depending on
size and nature of assignment, were used QCBS, QBS, LSC, CQ and IC selection
methods respectively. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) stipulates the thresholds
for procurement and their review procedure as well as PP.

                                           66
During the project implementation the World Bank Task Team conducted five annual
Post-Review Missions: December, 2005; October, 2007; May-June, 2008; October, 2009;
April, 2011. Besides, AzRIP has signed the contracts with Independent Consultants for
Operational Review. The coordinated work of procurement and finance units is a notable
achievement, since procurement personnel shall be informed about the implementation of
contracts, such as delivery and acceptance of goods, invoices, payments upon
deliverables, etc. The PMU has established an electronic system for contract and
disbursement management, which coordinates internal control between procurement and
disbursement and ensures accurate and efficient payments under contracts.

As the result of review by the Bank staff as well as an Independent Procurement
Consultant, the PMU Procurement Department was given the recommendations on
findings on procurement of goods and selection of consultants. These recommendations
were taken into consideration in future in order to improve the procurement activities.

Procurement Lessons Learned: Goods and Works. The technical specifications were
not detailed enough to detail all features of the equipment including the required
performance. Optional requirements as well as statement of brand names should not be
stated in the technical specifications. Afterwards, the PMU agreed with the WB to send
the technical specifications for “No Objection? even if the contracts were a subject to
post-review.

In some procurements the information on the bidders (though not winners) such as Tax
ID number, bank requisites and phone numbers were not verified. They were contacted
not on land lines but mobile numbers. PMU did not keep records on registration of
quotation receipts indicating the time of receipt and the name of the person dropping the
bid. It was followed later on.

In procurement of IT and other equipment, PMU keeps the record on the serial numbers
in the delivery and hand-over acts to the users. These records are maintained by the PMU
Office Manager.

The Evaluation Committee members should sign a declaration of impartiality, neutrality,
confidentiality and confirm that they do not have any conflict of interest. PMU followed
this rules and recorded this Declaration for all later procurements.

Consulting services. For some consulting contracts in early stages of the projects PMU
has paid advances without a bank guarantee for the same amount. Later on any advance
payment exceeding 10% of the contract amount was backed with a bank guarantee.

The contract forms existing in 2005 for PMU staff were modified in accordance with the
Bank’s sample form of contract for individual consultants. Starting in 2006 the new
contract ceilings stated the total amounts including salaries and reimbursable expenses.




                                           67
By the recommendation, PMU modified the payment schedule in the contracts of the
consultants, which should state clear payment conditions relating to reporting obligations
by him/her and to be done upon certain deliverables.

Under some PMU/PAT consultant contracts, the consultancy fee and the reimbursable
expenses of the consultant were calculated along with training costs. As per
recommendation of the mission, PMU in further contracts excluded and kept the
logistical expenses for organization of events out of IC contract.

In the selection of an audit firm, PMU several times faced the submission of the proposal
by one or two firms out of six short-listed. In such cases, PMU was advised to ask again
the other short-listed firms whether they intend to submit their proposal to ensure
effective competition.

M&E. The Deputy Director and M&E Specialist participated in AADAPT Workshop of
DIME in Dakar in 2011. Collaboration with DIME is expected for the repeater Project in
designing the Impact Evaluation.

The project design also included surveys (baseline and impact) to measure the outcomes.
As a result of the durable time consuming exchange of revisions between the PMU and
Task Team the TOR for the survey Company was approved only on 20 June, 2006. The
Baseline survey was carried out only 32 months later than the Project start.

Assessment of the Outcome of the Operation versus the Agreed Objectives. There
have been significant problems in the procurement of Service Providers (SPs) for
community training activities, resulting in unsatisfactory progress on the project
development objective. This resulted in a gap with the identification and preparation of
community projects and initial data collection for identification of eligible communities.
The reason for the problem in SP selection was the institutional reorganization in the
Government Implementing Agency. The Cab Min stopped operation of ASDAPS in May
2005 and the new Agency - SAAC was established and the Project was moved to the new
one. This was a time consuming process and lasted for more than five months. All these
interactions accompanied with bureaucracy affected negatively to the procurement of SP
as well as the other operations of the Project.

Progress was constrained by the absence of SPs to provide community training. It was
agreed the ROOs initiate six pilot community projects to provide hands-on training to the
ROO staff in OM procedures. This training would also facilitate rapid implementation of
this component when recruitment of SPs is completed. PMU initiated six pilot
community projects in order to provide hands-on training to ROOs by 20 May, 2005.

Right at the beginning of the new extension phase, AzRIP staff carried out a statistical,
technical analysis of the Community Projects completed under the previous AzRIP
activities. For this purpose, the most important parameters of sub-project planning,
implementation and monitoring of O&M were identified and recorded following agreed
formats which consists of a summary for each sub-project i) “as built? documents

                                           68
including as-built-drawings, O&M plan, budget and responsibilities, and ownership rights,
and ii) the result of the one year (post) project evaluation.

PMU failed in SP selection for one of the three Project Operation zones; the Project
Assistance Team (PAT) was established alternatively to provide community mobilization
and training services to the subsequent ROO. PMU hired the individual consultants for
PAT based on the TOR agreed with the Task Team. PAT successfully expanded its
services to the communities in the Mugan-Salyan and Nakhchivan zones afterwards as
was done by SPs in the past. The transition was successfully managed without disruptions
in project implementation and enabled considerable cost savings to the Project. PAT now
conducts community mobilization and provides training in all operation zones.
Communities generally evaluate the training provided by SPs and PAT as positive: 99%
of communities report that training received was useful. Project implementation was
performed at full speed.

PAT has successfully initiated the economic analysis to assess the cost effectiveness of
alternative community projects, which helps communities reach informed decisions on
priority issues and the technical design of community projects. The PAT technical team
provides the respective Community Project Committees (CPCs) with alternative technical
solutions to each priority, together with the expected numbers of beneficiaries and the
cost for each technical solution, so the CPC can compare the cost effectiveness of
alternative technical solutions, measured by the number of beneficiaries per dollar of
investment cost. The economic enables community members to discuss in a highly
participatory manner the relative benefits to community members of alternative technical
solutions, and reach consensus against objective data on the scale of benefit that would
accrue to well defined subgroups of the community. The economic analysis also helps
PAT avoid potential problems that can erupt among community members during project
design and implementation regarding the distribution of project benefits.

Beneficiary surveys have indicated that travel times to schools and markets have reduced
by 47% and 26% respectively as a result of the rehabilitation of rural roads. Livelihoods
have improved significantly. The rehabilitation of irrigation systems, reaching over
700,000 people, has increased average productivity by roughly 30% and added more than
US$ 1 million to the value of production in project areas while primary school enrollment
has increased by 25% subsequent to school rehabilitation. Moreover, in villages where
roads have been rehabilitated under the project, 78% of farm products are now brought to
markets in nearby towns by farmers themselves (as opposed to 18% in non-project areas).
In project areas, farmers now can sell their produce at their farms at 20% higher prices,
while prices for the same products in non-project areas has decreased. A keen emphasis
on sustainable infrastructure, maintenance contracts and accountability has helped ensure
that over 90% of infrastructure rehabilitated is operational. The income of over 600,000
farmers has increased and 150,000 rural poor now have access to safe water.

AzRIP is not simply focused on delivering physical infrastructure to rural communities.
Rather, the project is concerned fundamentally about building the capacity of local
communities to collectively solve local development problems. PMU prepared and

                                           69
implemented a CDD training series for all staff of the PMU and for strengthening the
understanding and skills of all project staff in CDD in order to improve the effectiveness
of project management.

Achievements
“We invest for community self-reliance and development? mission has proven its value:
    Participation level in community events increased
    Information was disseminated to all interested stakeholders through various
       workshops, seminars, conferences and information materials
    Transparency was ensured (especially through community board, complaints and
       suggestion box)
    Cooperation was achieved at all levels
    Lessons learned were shared and new communities learned from the experienced
       communities
    Learning from experience helped to avoid further problems and repeat the same
       mistakes
    Effective planning resulted in successful projects
    Community, and particularly female, participation in decision making improved
    Involvement of social groups, integration and collaboration helped to reach as
       much beneficiary as possible
    Community Network improved relations within and between project zones and
       with other stakeholders
    Involvement of women, youth, local municipalities and government
       representatives in social processes increased
    Population was provided with transparent election skills through selecting CPC
    Collaboration with Parliament members during opening ceremonies of completed
       projects, strengthened communities’ relations and interaction with Parliament
       members of respective rayons. As a result, numerous local social problems of
       communities were solved
    AzRIP training package on 4 topics was provided to CPC members, Municipality
       Chairmen and councilors to improve their skills and capacity
    Hundreds of citizens were provided with information on community components
       (through round tables and community wide meetings)
    Communities came together to mobilize their financial and other resources to
       solve their own problems
    Implementation of different type projects improved socio-economic situation and
       livelihoods
    Locally potential skilled personnel were trained and they were hired by
       municipality and other structures in most cases
       .

                                           70
One of the most significant project impacts is that the implementation of community
projects triggered many subsequent investments: local municipalities or rayon
governments, once they have seen community projects completed, often contribute
resources to enhance project benefits. For example, municipal or rayon governments
often contribute health equipment when health posts are rehabilitated. There are
numerous such examples where completion of community projects triggered local
resources to enhance project impact. The value thus triggered is estimated to be
US$ 1,775,216. All these were recorded as a matching contribution for the Project as they
were not included to the CP budget before approval. Matching contribution was usually
made by Rayon ExCom, municipalities, local authorities, community business people
living outside of the community, etc. There were also cases in which the quality of
additional support was not adequate. For example, old and secondhand equipment was
provided to some health clinics and schools, which does not ensure the sustainability of
community projects.

Various steps had been taken to improve the environmental impact of MP under the
original project, including the mandatory installation of sanitary facilities in clinics,
planting of trees to protect irrigation channels, and the quality assurance of drinking
water under portable water MP. PMU involved an environmental specialist from the very
beginning of the project implementation to ensure that the environmental management
provisions are duly implemented. Environmental monitoring visits are carried out by the
PMU Environmental Specialist at least once a month and cover both sub-project
identification and implementation phases. Environmentally sensitive MPs were also
visited during implementation to ensure environmental compliance. The environmental
training package was prepared and regional environmental workshops were held to raise
the awareness and capacity of community members on environmental issues.

Lessons learned. Community development planning could be more strategic. At present
the focus is on identifying a top priority to be addressed with AzRIP funding. However a
more strategic approach would both make the definition of top priorities more credible
and provide a stronger basis for finding means of addressing other priorities.
Inappropriate technical expertise sometimes causes weaknesses in the technical design of
community projects, rendering supervision of vendors (contractors) difficult, and
resulting in weak or inappropriate plans for operations and maintenance.

Lack of experience with project design and tendering procedures can mean that
communities don’t always make the best choice of potential vendors and fail to sign
comprehensive contracts covering all issues related to project implementation.

Delays in timely tranche transfers and the rapid increase of construction materials prices
sometimes force communities to reduce the scope of community projects and cause
problems in the relations between communities and vendors executing community
projects.

Limited legal expertise and awareness of legal requirements often result in communities
failing to define suitable terms of contract between the communities and the institutions


                                           71
to which community projects are handed over after implementation, which can decrease
the sustainability of these projects.

Evaluation of the Borrower’s Performance. The Government of Azerbaijan closely
collaborated with the World Bank during the preparation and implementation of AzRIP.
Main documents for the project implementation including Operations Manual, Cost tab,
Environmental Management Plan have been developed together with Government, which
also reviewed and approved the plan. As a result, all main project documents have been
developed in line with national legislation and no legal constraints were encountered
during the project implementation. During both original AzRIP and Additional Financing,
Project effectiveness procedures by the Government took longer than expected.

Due to insufficient coordination between the Cabinet of Ministers and Presidential Office,
it took six months for original project to get effectiveness (Board approval June 2004 –
effectiveness January 2005) and 14.5 months for Additional Financing (Board approval
March 27, 2008 – effectiveness June 12, 2009). In both cases, the World Bank saved the
situation with extension of deadline.

It is stipulated in the Section 4.01(b) of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)
signed between the World Bank and Government of Azerbaijan that “The Borrower shall
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year (or other period agreed to by the Association), audited, in accordance with
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association?, but Chamber of Accounts counteracted this
condition of DCA and held inspection of project during January-February, 2011,
paralyzing PMU operations for two months. All field trips, capacity building activities,
etc. were postponed during inspection period. All key staff were engaged only in
inspection commission’s inquiries during this period and archived files of 400
Community Projects completed during 2005-2010 were reviewed. This process
negatively affected PMU performance and project implementation according to Project
Implementation Schedule. It should be noted that all these audits and inspections were
held only in accordance with national legislation, but the operational procedures outlined
in OM and other documents of World Bank, agreed with the Government of Azerbaijan
during Project preparation phase, as well as AzRIP technical standards were not
recognized and commented.

Dependence of PMU operations on several state structures (Ministry of Finance, Ministry
of Economic Development, Ministry of Agriculture, etc.) led to slowing down the project
implementation, reducing the quality of the project’s outputs and other consequences. It
should be stressed that the Ministry of Agriculture stopped disbursement of tranches for
community projects several times and held investigations in the Project; delayed
disbursement of tranches impeded technical implementation of community projects and
communities and municipalities addressed complaint letters to the Country Office of the
World Bank in Azerbaijan, PMU, Cabinet of Ministers, Presidential Office, Ministry of
Economic Development and other structures. The World Bank was obliged to intervene
in this issue many times and provided significant support to improve the situation.

                                           72
Since rural communities are not “legal entities? and do not possess bank accounts, grants
for community projects were financed through grant recipients at the initial stage of the
Project. Communities were mainly using municipalities’ bank accounts as grant
recipients. Community grants approved by RGACs, which operate on a social basis, were
transferred to local municipalities’ bank accounts and further transferred to sub-
contractors selected by communities through tendering. As municipalities in the country
are still operating under the influence of Rayon Executive Committees, community grants
could be directed to rayon’s priorities. AzRIP operations were stopped in Ujar and
Jalilabad rayons due to the serious interference in financial transactions of the projects by
rayon Ex.Coms. The solution was that PMU addressed this issue to the World Bank and
this procedure was changed. Grants are transferred directly to the sub-contractor’s
account based on the documents submitted to PMU by the communities.

On-site experience shows that the Contractors registered in certain rayons very often
avoid executing the MP in that rayon. They do not accept the invitation of the Evaluation
Committee to quote a price. The official representatives of the Contractors state
afterwards that during and after the implementation of the project, they were forced by
the Rayon ExCom to undertake other tasks not related to this project, i.e. executing
rehabilitation works at their own expense. For this reason, they are usually obliged to
open the bank accounts in other rayons or in Baku. Therefore, the firm is not interested in
executing the works under the Community Project in their own rayons. This affects the
prices and decreases the possibility of getting the lower bids.

The Implementing agency was Agency to Support Development of Agriculture at Private
Sector (ASDAPS) at the Project preparation and start-up phases. Due to the structural
changes within Government, ASDAPS was disbanded later and SAAC took over the
project implementation and coordination.
Except for the permanent office space problem of PMU from the beginning to the end of
the Project (2005-2012), we may underline that implementing agency was always
supportive to the successful implementation of the project.

Evaluation of the Bank’s performance. During both phases of the Project, original
AzRIP and Additional Financing, the Task Team established by the Bank developed the
PAD at a high quality without any delay and submitted it to the Government.

The World Bank Task Team for AzRIP has always effectively collaborated with PMU,
supervised its operations through timely and in some cases extraordinary missions and
provided all necessary support for successful project operations.

Aide Memoires of the Bank’s Supervision Missions were submitted to the Government
on a regular basis and the Task Team strictly supervised the execution of Agreed Actions
Plan. However, in many cases the submission of Mission Aide Memoires to the
Government were delayed by the Bank, which caused challenges for the PMU. We can
bring an example from December 2009 Mission Aide Memoire. The consultant who
visited AzRIP Community Projects to perform a Technical Audit in June 2009 submitted

                                             73
a report to the Government on the analysis of community projects in the technical
implementation stage. The report was submitted as an annex to the Aide Memoire of the
December 2009 Mission. Though the community projects included in this report were
already completed in July and August, submission of the report that reflected the
implementation process of these projects in December gave the Government such a
feeling that technical implementation of the projects delayed the process and were not yet
complete. As the paragraph extracted from the Aide Memoire included in the Report was
prepared by the Monitoring Group of the Ministry of Economic Development and
submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers, PMU received a number of letters from various
structures full of hard questions.

The situation was again resolved with the support of World Bank. The Senior
Infrastructure Specialist based in the Bank’s Country Office visited these already
completed projects, prepared a report reflecting the real situation and submitted to the
Government as an Annex to the Aide Memoire of next (June 2010) Mission.

At the initial stages of AzRIP, in particular during 2005, PMU used to face challenges in
getting “No Objection? from the Bank for the tenders and selection of consultants – long
lasting correspondence, re-analysis of the selection results by the Bank, etc. extended the
process which caused delays in the implementation of activities in the Project
Implementation Plan within the agreed time frame. The situation improved due to the
different approaches of new Task Team Leaders appointed after 2006 up to the end of the
Project. The Project Management Unit had no problems in getting “No Objection? from
the Bank during 2006-2012.

The Bank had great support in the capacity building of the PMU. High level trainings,
study tours to analogical projects, efficient and timely provision of International
Consultant services helped PMU staff to achieve high performance.

The Bank Task Team was always in contact not only with PMU but also with the project
beneficiaries and made regular visits to the communities to assess current project
activities’ impact on the end users and beneficiaries and improve programmatic
requirements of the project.

AzRIP achievements were regularly highlighted and promoted in the Bank’s official
website and publications disseminated in many countries. The Bank also organized
preparation of a short film reflecting successful implementation of AzRIP and posted it
on the website. In order to promote the Project achievements, the PMU Community
Development Manager was invited to the Bank’s event in Tbilisi (2010) attended by the
Task Team Leaders for the Bank Projects implemented in various countries, where she
presented AzRIP. All these facts are indicators of great support, interest and attention of
the Bank to AzRIP implementation.

Any constraint encountered during the project implementation was immediately and
actively intervened by the World Bank Country Office and the Task Team and the Project
Administration was always provided with necessary support to solve the problem.

                                            74
Proposed arrangements for future operation of the project. The Government of
Azerbaijan is supporting AzRIP-2 with great expectations and provides necessary
assistance in taking required steps to start the project implementation. Project preparation
and its implementation arrangements have been discussed with the Cabinet of Ministers,
Ministry of Economic Development, State Agency on Agricultural Credits and with other
respective government structures. The Deputy Prime Minister provided official
confirmation regarding the institutional arrangements of the project in February 2012.

Taking into consideration the Project Closing Date of March 31, 2012, the Government
of Azerbaijan has requested retroactive financing for the project to avoid gap between the
closing date of Additional Financing and effectiveness of AzRIP-2. The Government of
Azerbaijan has issued an order for allocation of US$ 1 million for starting the second
project in April 2012 and simultaneously, the process of opening a Special Bank Account
for the project has already been finalized.




                                            75
                                                     45°E                                          46°E                                            47°E                                       48°E                                               49°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                            RUSSIA N                             Makhachkala

                                                GE OR GI A
                                                                                                                          Balaken
                                                                                                                                                        G FEDERAT IO N
                                            To                                  To
                                                                             Tbilisi
                                                                                                               BALAKEN             Zagatala               rea
                                           Tbilisi
                                                                                                                                     ZAGATALA                   te                                                                    KHACHMAZ
                                                                                                                                                                       r                                         GUSAR
                                                                                                                                                                             C
                                                                                                                                                   Gakh
                                                                                                                                                                                 au                              Gusar                       Khachmaz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AZERBAIJAN
                                 To
                                                                      AGSTAFA
                                                                                                                                      GAKH                                            ca                                 Guba
                              Vanadzor
                                                           GAZAKH
                                                                                                                                                                                            su                                                     Devechi
                                            To                                                                                                              Sheki                                s                           GUBA
                                         Vanadzor                            Agstafa                                                              SHEKI                                               M                                  DEVECHI
                                                                                              TOVUZ                                                                   Oghuz                               o
                  41°N
                                                                      Gazakh                 Ku
                                                                                                ra                                    Mingechevir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                u                                       Siyazan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            41°N
                                                                                       Tovuz
                                                                                       Tovuz                                                                           OGHUZ                                                                      SIYAZAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 n
                                                            Le                                                       SAMUKH           Reservoir                                              Gabala




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ta
                                                                 ss                               SHEMKIR                                                                                                                                           Khizi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             in
                                                                                                                                                                                  GABALA
                                                                      er                    Shemkir                    Nabiagaly
                                                                                                                                                  MINGECHEVIR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 s
                                                                                                                                                                                               Ismailli                       SHAMAKHY
                                                                                                                                                      Mingechevir                                    ISMAILLI                                               KHIZI
                                                                                                        Ganja
                                       To                                                                                                                       Agdash                                                                                                     SUMGAYIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SUMGAYIT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Caspian Sea
                                                                            C




                                                                                                     GANJA                                          Yevlach
                                                                                                                                                    Yevlach                               Goychay                                 Shamakhy
                                    Vanadzor
                                                                               a




                                                                                      Gedabay                Geranboy                                        AGDASH                                                                                                           Sumgayit
                                                                                   u




                                                                                                       Khanlar                                                                     GOYCHAY                  Akhsu                                 Maraza
                                                                                                                                                  YEVLACH
                                                                                       c




                                                                                                  KHANLAR                                                                         Udjar                                                                                              Khyrdalan
                                                                                         a




                                                                              GEDABAY                       GERANBOY                                                                                            AKHSU
                                                                                            su




                                                                                            Dashkesan                                                                                                                                      GOBUSTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GOBUSTAN
                                                                                                                                                          Barda                    UDJAR
                                                                                                  s




                                                                                                 DASHKESAN
                                                                  Lake                                                                  Tar
                                                                                                                                        Tartar
                                                                                                                                         artar
                                                                                                                                            tar                                                                Kyurdamir                                  ABSHERON         BAKU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          BAKU
                                                                                                    M




                                                                                                                                                          BARDA
                              AR M E N I A                       Sevan                                                              ART
                                                                                                                                   TARTAR
                                                                                                                                   TARTAR




                                                                                                                                                                                      K
                                                                                                         o




                                                                                                                                                                                ZARDAB               KYURDAMIR
                                                                                                           u




                                                                                                                                                                            Zardab




                                                                                                                                                                                          u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HAGIKABUL
                                                                                                             n




                                                                                                                                                                                           r
                                                             To
                                                                                                               ta




                                                                                                                                                                                             a
                                                            Sevan                                                                          AGDAM            AGDZHEBEDI
                                                                                                        Kelbadzhar                                                                                             Kura SABIRABAD                    Gazi-Mammad
                                                                                                                     in




                  40°N                                                                                                                                                     Agdzhebedi                                                                                                                                                       40°N




                                                                                                                                                                                                 L
                                 To                                                                 KELBADZHAR                                                                                                           Sabirabad




                                                                                                                                                                                                     o
                               Yerevan                                                                                                            Agdam
                                                                                                                       s




                                                                                                                          KHODZHALY
                                                                                                                          KHODZHAL   Y                                                        IMISHLI          l a                                Ali Bayramli




                                                                                                                                                                                                        w
                 TURKEY




                                                                                                                           Khodzhaly                                                                                     Saatly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     n                             ALI BAYRAMLI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Imishli             d                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                           LACHIN                                         Khodzhaveno BEILAGAN                                          SAATLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SAA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SAATL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                   O



                                                                                                                               Shusha                                                                                                                   SALYAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SALYAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SALY                      Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                    N




                               SADARAK                                                                                                                                  Beilagan                                      Araz
                                                                                                                                                 VE




                                     Sadarak                                                                                  SHUSHA                                                                                                                                              endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                               HA




                                                                                                                     Lachin
                                                                                                                                           DZ




                                                                                                                                                          Fizuli                                                                                                                               50°E                                          51°E
                                                                                                                                           O




                                                      Sharur                                                                                                 FIZULI                                                  BILASUVAR                       Salyan
                                                                                                                                        KH




                                                     SHARUR                 SHAKHBUZ                                                                                                                                 Bilasuvar
                                                                                                                         Gubadly
                                                                            Shakhbuz                                                   Dzebrail                                                                                                  Neftchala
                                                Ar




                                                                    BABEK

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A ZE RBA IJ AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NEFTCHALA
                                                  az




                                                                                                                              GUBADLY DZEBRAIL
                                                                                                                              GUBADLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      JALILABAD
                                                                       NAKHCHIVAN
                                                                       NAKHCHIVAN                                                                                                                                             Jalilabad
                                                                            DZHULFA



                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Le
                                                                       Babek                                                   Zangilan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Masally


                                                                                                                                                                                                                         nk
                                                                                      ORDUBAD                        ZANGILAN
                  39°N                     To                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RAYON CAPITALS
                                                                                  Dzhulfa

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    39°N
                                         Salmas                                                                                                                                                                                   MASALLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MASALLY
                                                                                          Ordubad

                                                                                                                                                                                                                             an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CAPITAL OF AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Yardymly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Yardymly
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lo
                                                                                                                                                                                               YARDYMLY
                                                                                                                                                                                                ARDYMLY
                                                                                                                                                                                               YARDYMLY                                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LENKORAN
                                                                                                                              I SLA MIC REPUBLIC                                                                     Lerik
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LERIK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  wl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    an       Lenkoran
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RIVERS
                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                          To                    Tabriz
                                                                                                                                    O F IRA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      d
                                                                                        Tabriz                                                                                                                                                                                                 MAIN ROADS
                          0    10 20 30 40 50 Kilometers                                                                                                                                                                             ASTARA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ASTARA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Astara
SEPTEMBER 2004




                                                                                                                                                                                   To




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 33365
                                                                                                                                                                                 Tabriz                                                                                                        RAYON BOUNDARIES
                          0       10       20         30       40      50 Miles

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                            45°E                                                 46°E                                             47°E                                         48°E                                      Rasht     49°E
