                                                                                                  97582
Azerbaijan: Improving Rural Livelihoods                                               September 30, 2010




 RURAL INVESTMENT

 Improving Rural Livelihoods in Azerbaijan




Overview
The Azerbaijan Rural Investment Project   (AzRIP), under implementation since 2005, has
supported the rehabilitation of critical infrastructure in 430 poor communities across the
                                moll
country. An emphasis on sustainable      infrastructure and direct monitoring of implementation by
participating communities ensured that over 90% of rehabilitated infrastructure is operational.
The project has produced multiple gains in road improvements, school renovations and potable
water quality, which resulted in improving the lives of some 600,000 farmers and reducing
poverty of some 150,000 people. Most importantly, AZRIP has mobilized community members
to identify needs and implement priority actions to address these.




Challenge                                              MULTIMEDIA
A critical challenge in Azerbaijan is to channel
the dividends of oil-driven economic growth –
mostly concentrated in Baku – to the rural areas
to improve access to social services and
conditions for more productive use of the
agricultural potential. Examples include: The
poor condition of rural roads has forced farmers
to sell their produce to external agents at prices
30% lower than when directly delivered to the
market; potable water supply has been of a sub-
quality standard for 30% of the rural population;
and during the winter many children have been
absent from school since some local roads
become impassable and schools lack heat.

Approach                                                            More Results
AzRIP is designed to foster development through small
sustainable investment, decided and driven by local
communities. Local actions are supported through guided
use of innovative methods of community participation,
including Participatory Rural Appraisal facilitation and
                                                                    1,300
economic analysis to assess the distributional impact of
project interventions. AzRIP puts communities in the lead in        km
determining their priority investments and investment options       The approximate number of
and broad participation in program governance is actively           kilometers of new or
                                                                    reconstructed roads since the
supported. Local communities apply for block grants, subject        project launch.
to the preparation of operation and maintenance plans, and
confirmation by local governments to support the investments
and to finance specific items. Regional firms support
communities to design investments and supervise
contractors, and participating communities engage with each
other through facilitated peer learning.
                                                                80%
                                                                The percentage of farm products
                                                                now brought to markets by
                                                                farmers themselves.
Results

Since project launch in January 2005, the following results
are evident:
                                                                6.5
                                                                million
      To date, about 1.2 million people in 431 communities
      have benefited from a total of approximately 1,300
      kilometers of new or reconstructed roads.
                                                                The total wages earned from the
      The condition of rural roads has improved for over        new civil works jobs created for
                                                                the rural poor.
      640,000 people in 200 communities, with improved
      access to schools and clinics, and increased income
      of farmers.

      About 80% of farm products are now brought to
      markets by farmers themselves (18% in non-                MORE INFORMATION
      beneficiary areas). Prices of crops paid to farmers        Results in ECA: Investing in
      have increased on average by 20% in project areas.         Azerbaijan's Agriculture
      Weighted average productivity has increased by 46%         Official web site
      for potato, 40% for maize, 38% for cotton and 31%
      for wheat.                                                 Ministry of Agriculture


      Small-scale irrigation systems have been rehabilitated
      in 30 communities, reaching 700,000 people.               MATERIALS

                                                                 Azerbaijan Rural Investment
      Over 13,000 person-months of jobs in civil works have      Project Additional Financing –
      been generated, from which the rural poor have             PDF
      received more than $6.5 million equivalent in wages.
                                                                 Azerbaijan Rural Investment
                                                                 Project Wikipedia page
      Municipalities and the central government mobilized
      $800,000 equivalent for the operation and                  Improving People's Lives in ECA
      maintenance of rehabilitated infrastructure.               2010

                                                                 Interview with Santosh Ishihara,
Under the original IDA Credit of $15 million equivalent, $12     Team Task Leader, AzRIP
million was disbursed as grants for infrastructure
rehabilitation, and approximately $2 million for the capacity
development of rural communities. Under the IDA Additional
Financing of $15 million equivalent, approximately $6 million
has been spent on infrastructure rehabilitation.

Toward the Future
The long-term sustainability of rural infrastructure still
remains a challenge, with substantial capital repair
investments required in the coming years, including the more
recently upgraded infrastructure. The government of              Slide-Show: click image
Azerbaijan has requested a follow-on project to expand the
project investments to communities not yet serviced. The
new project is expected to be approved in 2011. This project    PARTNERS
will seek to strengthen sustainability of supported
investments.                                                     Embassy of Japan in Azerbaijan

                                                                 National AzRIP Conference



Voices
       All the people of the village participated in the mobilization
    process. A vast majority of the villagers voted for irrigation
    water supply project as the priority number one. My farm's
    income increased by more than 30% after the irrigation system
    had been rehabilitated with the grant of about $50,000


                      —Mahir Aliyev, a farmer living in Qaramanli


 
