Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFTICLL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6677-PNG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$50 MILLION
TO
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR AN
ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM
AUGUST 7, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Currency Unit = Kina (K)) I
(Annual Averages)
1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995 2
US$/k  =       0.85    0.95    0.99    0.96    0.98    1.0    1.33
kl/US$ =        1.17    1.05    1.01    1.04    1.02    1.0    0.75
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB            -       Asian Development Bank
AusAID         -       Australian Agency for International Development
BPNG           -       Bank of Papua New Guinea (Central Bank)
DOF            -       Department of Finance
EC             -       European Community
EU             -       European Union
GDP            -       Gross Domestic Product
GRA            -       Gazelle Restoration Authority
IBRD           -       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB            -       International Competitive Bidding
IDA            -       International Development Association
IFAD           -       International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFC            -       International Finance Corporation
IMF            -       International Monetary Fund
MIGA           -       Multilateral Insurance Guarantee Agency
NEC            -       National Executive Council (Cabinet)
NGOs           -       Non-Governmental Organizations
PER            -       Public Expenditure Review
PIP            -       Public Investment Program
SAPIS          -       Structural Adjustment Programme Implementation Secretariat
UN             -       United Nations
UNDP           -       United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF         -       United Nations Children's Fund
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Effective October 10, 1994 the exchange rate has been determined through daily auctions between registered
foreign exchange brokers.
2  As of July 18, 1995.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM (ERP) LOAN
CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROGRAM  SUMMARY  .....................................   i
I. INTRODUCTION  ...............................................                                            1
II. THE ECONOMY   .......              ................1........................ 
A. Recent Economic and Social Developments  ..........................    1
B. External Financing Requirements .................................    3
C. Rationale for Bank Adjustment Lending .............................    5
III. THE PROPOSED LOAN                    ..................................                                6
A. Macroeconomic Stability  ......................................    6
B. Fiscal Restructuring and Improved Service Delivery  .....................    7
C. Private Sector Development and Supply Response  ......................   9
D. Sustainable Forestry .........................................   11
E. Cooperation with IMF, ADB, and Other Donors  .......................   11
F. Poverty Impact  ............................................   12
G. Environmental Impact ........................................   12
H. Management and Monitoring of the Program   .........               ..        ..............   13
1. Loan Amount and Tranching ...............................   13
2. Procurement and Disbursement  .............................  13
3. Conditions of Board Presentation, Effectiveness, and Second
Tranche Release ........................................ 14
4.   Risks  and  Benefits  .....................................                          16
5. Loan History ..........................................  18
IV. RECOMMENDATION   ..........................................   18
ANNEXES
Annex I          Papua New Guinea: National Accounts, 1993-2000
Papua New Guinea: Central Government Fiscal Operations, 1993-2000
Papua New Guinea: Balance of Payments, 1993-2000
Annex II         Letter of Development Policy
Matrix of Policy Actions
Annex III        Timetable of Key Program Processing Events
Annex IV         Status of Bank Group Operations in Papua New Guinea
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
o0icial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



I



THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM (ERP) LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Independent State of Papua New Guinea
Amount:              US$50 million
Terms:               20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard LIBOR-
based interest rate for US dollar Single Currency Loans.
Commitment Fee:      3/4 of 1 percent per annum on the principal amount of the loan not
withdrawn, beginning 60 days after loan signing.
Environmental
Assessment:          B
Poverty
Category:            B
Economic Rate
of Return:           Not applicable.
Net Present Value:    Not applicable.
Estimated
Disbursements:       The loan will be disbursed in two equal tranches of US$25 million
each, upon effectiveness, and after a satisfactory performance review
to be held in December 1995.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUnIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM LOAN
TO THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
1.    I submit, for your approval, the following report and recommendation on a proposed economic
recovery program loan to the Independent State of Papua New Guinea (PNG) for US$50 million. The
proposed US dollar Single Currency Loan will have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, and
will carry the Bank's LIBOR-based interest rate. It would help finance imports vital to economic
stabilization and recovery in the context of the Government's structural adjustment program for 1995-96.
The Government's program  is supported by the IMF, the Government of Australia, and Japan
Export-Import Bank.
I. INTRODUCTION
2.    Papua New Guinea's economy experienced an unprecedented financial crisis in 1994. The crisis
represented the outcome of several years of inadequate macroeconomic policies and lack of progress on
structural reforms. The high levels of public spending of the recent past did not translate into investments
and better services. The quality and coverage of essential public services, including provision of primary
health and education, agricultural extension, road maintenance and basic infrastructure, and maintenance
of law and order, deteriorated (for details see Country Assistance Strategy).
3.    The Government has requested the Bank and the IMF for financial assistance to support a reform
program, along with the 1995 Budget which was presented to the Parliament in early March 1995.
Australia, Japan, and other bilateral donors have indicated their strong support for this program. The
programn has been developed in close collaboration with IMF staff in the context of a stand-by
arrangement for SDR71.5 million covering the period ending December 1996.
II. THE ECONOMY
A.    Recent Economic and Social Developments
4.    PNG's economy has grown unevenly for most of the past two decades (see Table 1). Fueled by
large intermittent mining, petroleum, and logging operations, the enclave economy experienced significant
but widely fluctuating growth in output and exports throughout the period, with little impact on the rest
of the economy, particularly on the agricultural sector. During the construction phase of mineral
projects, the construction sector, and to a lesser extent, the transport and financial sectors, thrived, but
experienced severe recessions during the periods between the mineral booms. Furthermore, the public
sector expanded sharply but this did not translate into improvements in the quality and coverage of
services during the period as most of the resources were spent on salaries and wages.
5.    Despite a very favorable resource outlook, by 1993 PNG was looking at the prospect of another
financial and economic crisis. The overall external balance deteriorated sharply and the stock of external
debt rose from US$2.1 billion at the end of 1989 to US$3.2 billion by 1993. Even worse, domestic
public debt almost tripled from US$430 million (12 percent of GDP) in 1989 to US$1.2 billion (28
percent of GDP) by early 1994. Foreign exchange reserves were depleted from about US$400 million



- 2 -
TABLE 1: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS, 1975-97
1975  1980  1989  1991  1992   1993   1994  1995  1996 199l7
National Accounts (Growth Rates, %)
GDP                                        -0.9  -2.3  -1.4   9.5  11.8    16.6   3.5  -3.0  1.4    1.2
Mining & Petroleum                        -54.0 -15.9  -37.9  41.9  56.0   62.5  -2.7  -14.1 -10.3   -9.1
Non-mining                                  2.1  -1.3   4.9   5.2   3.8    4.2   6.1   0.8  4.9    3.8
Agriculture                               -0.7  -4.1   1.4  -2.6   6.1      9.5   6.0   8.7  4.1    5.6
Exports (GNFS)                              -3.5  -0.3  -0.9   15.8  21.5    31.2  -0.8  -6.3 -5.9   -2.7
Mining & Petroleum "L                    -12.7 -12.9  -9.5  49.1  12.0   90.5  -3.1  -14.1 -10.3   -9.1
Imports (GNFS)                              2.1  9.5  -10.1  20.1   6.4    -5.0  -1.9   3.8 21.9   -2.6
Consumer inflation (ann. av.) (%)           10.5  12.0   4.5    7.0   4.3     5.0   2.9   17.5  5.9    4.0
Exchange rate (period av.) (US$/Kina)        1.31  1.49   1.17   1.01  1.04    1.02  1.0   0.75s
Public Finance (% GDP)
Total revenues & grants                    31.6  33.8  33.2  31.1  27.2   26.1  26.7  25.6 27.7   26.3
Total expenditures                         37.6  35.2  30.0  32.9  32.8    32.0  29.0  26.5 28.7   28.5
Overall budget deficit (-)/surplus(+) (incl. grants)  -5.7  -1.4  -1.3  -1.8  -5.6    -5.9  -2.3  -0.9 -1.0   -2.2
Ext. Cur. Acct. (excl. grants) (% GDP)     -15.7 -22.2  -16.4  -12.5  -6.8    7.9   7.4   0.2 -12.2  -12.9
Gross Investment (% GDP)#                   22.1  26.6  21.2  24.6  21.3    19.7  14.7  22.8 29.1   28.5
Mining                                      2.9  2.1  10.8  14.4   9.9    4.6   2.2   7.2 10.5    7.7
Public                                      ..   ..   4.4   4.3   4.6    4.3   2.8   4.9  6.4    8.0
Private, Non-mining'                         ..   ..   5.9   5.9   6.7    10.8   9.7   10.7 12.3   12.8
a/ Merchandise only.
b/ As at mid-July 1995.
c/ At constant prices.
d/ Includes change in stocks.
Source: Government of Papua New Guinea, and Bank staff estimates and projections.
equivalent to five months of non-mining imports in 1989-90, to US$142 million by the end of 1993.
6.      By 1994 the oil boom  began to abate, and the macroeconomic situation deteriorated further.
Foreign exchange reserves continued to fall sharply to only US$50 million (half a month of non-mining
imports) by August 1994. Domestic payment arrears accumulated rapidly. Faced with virtual financial
insolvency, the new Government devalued the kina and then floated it on October 10, 1994. Current
expenditures were curtailed to the bare minimum and capital expenditures were suspended; revenue
collection was tightened and asset sales expedited. As a result, the 1994 budget deficit, which was
running at over 11 percent (on an annual basis) in July, was reduced to 2.3 percent of GDP by December
1994. Development outlays, which are some of the lowest in the world, were cut even more. Monetary
policy was tightened through raising the Minimum Liquid Asset Ratio (MLAR) from 11 percent to 32
percent and treasury bill rates from 9 percent to 15 percent between October 1994 and April 1995. The
kina fell from US$1.05/kina in August 1994 to US$0.75/kina in mid-July 1995 and inflation is currently
running at around 20 percent annually.



- 3 -
7.    The 1995 Budget targets an overall deficit of one percent of GDP. It incorporates a large number
of macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms which have been discussed with the Bank and the
IMF over the past several months, including, inter alia, raising allocations for development expenditures,
initiating major trade policy reforms, adopting and implementing sustainable forestry policies, and
privatization of the State's equity in mining and manufacturing joint ventures.
8.    Among the most significant deterrents to supply response and employment generation in PNG are
the country's very high nominal and reservation wage rates and low labor productivity. The economy's
response to the drastic reduction of the minimum wage in 1992 has been encouraging, as the minimum
wage has dropped by nearly half in real terms. But public sector wages, which largely determine the
wages for skilled labor, remain high by any regional standard. The Government awarded a 3 percent
salary increase effective January 1, 1995, with 1.5 percent backdated to January 1, 1994. However, to
bring public sector salaries more in line with the level of its productivity, real salaries and wages for civil
servants are being reduced by about 15 percent through imposition of a wage freeze through 1995 and
rationalizing benefits. Furthermore, the Government has deferred the next session of the Minimum Wage
Board to 1996 and, under this loan, will pursue a wage policy in line with markets forces.
9.    After the 1992 National Elections, the Government appointed a Constitutional Reform
Commission (CRC) to review the provincial system of government which was set up after independence
with a view to establishing new provincial and local-level governments which would ensure (i) PNG's
identity as a sovereign united nation; (ii) equal opportunity and popular participation in government at
all levels; (iii) adequate provision of basic services including water, health, education, transportation,
communication, accommodation and social order through economic self-reliance; and (iv) responsible
citizenship through self-management, control and accountability. The changes to the constitution were
passed by Parliament on June 28, 1995.
10.   Under the new system of government, the currently elected provincial governments will be
abolished and replaced by appointed provincial assemblies, which for each province would comprise the
national parliament members from the Province, and the president of each Local Government Council
in the province. There will still be provincial cabinet, provincial secretariat, and potentially a large
provincial bureaucracy. Approximately 86 District Administrative Offices will have to be established and
staffed. The new Organic Law is accompanied by a large number of laws, which have or will now be
enacted before the new system can come into operation. These reforms are likely to affect significantly
the functioning of public services in PNG. However, no reliable information on the budget effects, civil
service restructuring requirements, and timing of reforms are available at this time.
B.    External Financing Requirements
11.   The balance of payments prospects and financing requirements for the 1995-97 period are
presented in Table 2. Total financing requirements for the 1995-97 period are projected to amount to
US$3,078 million versus a total identified financing of US$2,655 million, leaving a financing gap of
US$423 million. Of this amount, US$358 million represents the financing gap for 1995 and 1996, which
needs to be met over the 18 months period ending December 1996, in order to achieve the program's
macroeconomic objectives. This is expected to be met by balance of payments support from major
financial institutions and bilateral creditors, including the IMF, the World Bank, the ADB, the
Government of Australia, and Japan Exim Bank as well as Government asset sales. For 1997, however,
there remains a gap of US$65 million.
12.   1995 Gap. The financing gap for 1995 is projected at US$200 million, after taking into account
the need to build up reserves of up to 1.8 months of nonmineral imports, and to meet scheduled debt
service obligations. The gap is projected to be filled by balance of payments support under a recently



approved stand-by arrangement from the IMF, the Bank's proposed Economic Recovery Program (ERP)
loan, Japan Exim Bank, and Australia, as well as the rollover of commercial bank swaps and sale of
Government interests in mining ventures.
Table 2: Papua New Guinea: External Financing Requirements and Sources, 1993-97
(US$ million)
Actual                        Projection
1993      1994      1995      1996      1997    1995-97
External Financing Requirements                           441       420       733      1,281     1,064     3,078
Current account deficit (excl. grants & int.)
("-", surplus)                                     -568      -566      -123       565       623      1,065
Scheduled debt service obligations                    1,003       936       630       445       459      1,534
Reserve management swaps ("-", rollover) &
change in Commnercial Bank Reserves                    -         7        81       113       -40       154
Reserve accumulation (BPNG) ("-", reduction)           -113       -46        80       124        67       271
Other (inc. change in offshore balances)                119        88        64        35       -45        54
External Financing Sources                                492       311       533      1,124      999      2,655
Grants                                                  227       205       180       220       236       636
Public Project loans                                    103        44        97       142       175       414
Private Project loans                                    59        45       103       423       309       835
Direct foreign investment                                80        71       153       339       278       770
Errors & omissions                                       23       -54          -         -         -         -
Financing gap before balance of payments support          -51       109       200       158        65       423
Balance of payments support                               -51       109       200       158          -       358
- World Bank                                                                   30        50          -        80
- IMF                                                        -         -       50        57          -       107
- Asian Development Bank                                     -         -         -       36          -        36
- Japan Exim Bank                                            -         -       30        15          -        45
- Australia                                                  -                 50          -         -        50
- Swaps rollover                                             -       77        15                    -        15
- Sale of Assets (net)                                    -51        32        25          -         -        25
Remaining Financing Gap                                     0         0         0         0        65         65
Memo Items:
Scheduled debt service as share of merchandise exports    38.4      34.6      26.0      19.4      21.0         -
(%)
Reserves in nonths of non-mining Imports                   1.8       1.0       1.8       2.6       3.0
Source: Government of Papua New Guinea and Bank staff estimates and projections.
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
13.     1996 Gap. The financing gap for 1996 is projected at US$158 million, assuming a reserve build-
up of 2.6 months of non-mineral imports. The lower financing gap compared with 1995 stems from
expected lower commercial obligations in respect of the Bank of Papua New Guinea (BPNG) and foreign
exchange swaps. The gap is projected to be closed by disbursements under the stand-by arrangement
from the IMF, the World Bank, the ADB, and from Japan Exim Bank. Alternatively, PNG may raise
financing from MRDC or other asset sales.



C.    Rationale for Bank Adjustment Lending
14.   The rationale for Bank adjustment lending in PNG's current crisis comes from: (a) the need for
and the Government's stated commitment to stabilization and structural reforms; and (b) the need for
balance of payments support without which the adjustment is likely to be disorderly as laid out in the
accompanying Country Assistance Strategy.
15.   The Government's reform program, which has been developed with the Bank's analytic
assistance, was articulated in the 1995 Budget document and is presented in the attached Letter of
Development Policy. It is designed to achieve five major objectives:
*     restoring and maintaining a stable economic environment by sharply lowering fiscal
deficits and adjusting relative prices, and improving fiscal management, including public
expenditure management and budgeting procedures, to enhance the efficiency and
accountability in the use of public resources;
*     implementing a series of structural reforms to enhance PNG's competitiveness and restore
business confidence, and thus bring about a recovery in private investment, especially in
the non-mining sectors;
*      npromoting sustainable, environmentally sound natural resource development through
implementation of effective forestry conservation and revenue policies;
*     substantially improving public service delivery through restructuring of public
expenditures, significantly increasing public investment, and initiating new non-
governmental mechanisms to complement the public service delivery system while
ensuring more equitable allocations of public funds across regions by recognizing the
differences in per capita incomes and increasing transfers to the poorer provinces; and
*     supporting measures/actions, including revision of procurement, contracting, and draw-
down procedures, to improve project/program implementation including emergency relief
programs beginning with the Rabaul emergency program.
16.   In addition to the need for policy change, the rationale for adjustment lending draws from a very
sharp turn-around in PNG's external resource position. Papua New Guinea's balance of payments
position has come under substantial pressure since the early 1990s, and the external current account
surplus of 7.4 percent of GDP in 1994 is projected to be eroded in 1995 and turn into a deficit of more
than 12 percent of GDP in 1996 and 1997. PNG will need to adjust to this decline in resources. A
Bank-Fund supported program will bring about an orderly adjustment. As set out in Table 2, a total
external financing of about US$360 million is needed over the 1995-96 period to smoothen the process
of adjustment. It is proposed that US$50 million be allocated for fast-disbursing lending to PNG under
this loan followed by another possible adjustment loan of US$30 million in 1996; the IMF is providing
financing of about 30 percent of total requirements for the 1995-96 period; Australia, Japan, the ADB,
and other sources are providing the remaining balance.
17.   Initial work has been carried out over the past couple of years on macroeconomic management,
priorities for structural reforms, service delivery, as well as on natural resource management, particularly



forestry 1/. These provide the basis for the Government's structural adjustment program, supported
by the proposed operation and a possible follow-on adjustment operation. Future economic and sector
work will inform the policy dialogue. It will also provide the analytical underpinning for future lending
operations for improving supply response, the development of human resources and physical
infrastructure, and improving service delivery. The 1994 report on "Service Delivery" has been an
important vehicle for establishing priorities for expenditures and institutional change.
III. THE PROPOSED LOAN
18.    The proposed loan is to support the first phase of the Government's economic reform program.
To address the pressing stabilization and development issues facing PNG, the proposed ERP loan is
designed to address only key macroeconomic and structural issues whose implementation is expected to
stabilize the economy, begin the process of sustainable private-sector-led growth, while improving the
delivery of public services and strengthen natural resource management, particularly forestry. It will
assist the Government to build support among various stakeholders for the program by allocating higher
share of public resources to essential public services through various distribution and service delivery
systems, including NGOs and churches. The proposed operation also includes implementation measures
to initiate priority changes in the way the Government does business. The required technical support will
be provided through the various grant facilities available from the Bank and other donors.
19.    The proposed operation is conceived as a two-tranche loan with a set of essential actions prior
to Board presentation. Second tranche release will require implementation of agreed prior actions as well
as further preparatory work on the 1996 budget, public expenditure review, and an assessment of the
budget and delivery impact of the Organic Law on Provincial and Local-Level Governments.
A.    Macroeconomic Stability
20.    The proposed operation will support the Government's effort to achieve and maintain economic
stability. As a cornerstone of a stable and predictable economic environment, the medium-term macro-
framework and policies remain targeted toward reducing and keeping a low rate of inflation comparable
to those in PNG trading partners and a market-determined exchange rate, through pursuit of vigorous
fiscal and monetary policies and a prudent debt management and financial sector strategies.
21.    Given the economic outlook for PNG, the Government's fiscal and monetary policies are geared
toward sharply reducing the overall fiscal deficit and therefore reducing reliance on domestic bank
financing and commercial borrowing. The budget deficit is projected to fall from 2.3 percent of GDP
in 1994 to about 1 percent of GDP in 1995 and 1996, while increasing development expenditures from
2.9 percent of GDP in 1994 to 6.6 percent of GDP in 1996. This is to be brought about by a permanent
sizeable reduction in non-interest recurrent expenditures, including wages and salaries (about 2 percent
of GDP), goods and services (about one percent of GDP), and transfers and subsidies (more than 2
percent of GDP). Revenues will be stabilized despite falling mineral revenue through higher non-mining
tax collections. Furthermore, the Government is determined to pursue a prudent debt management policy
by increasing its use of concessional funds to finance the budget deficit and gradually lower its
indebtedness to the domestic banking system. This would reduce its interest burden and create additional
credit to the private sector. In this context, the program includes ceilings as agreed with the IMF, on
1/     These reforms are based on the following reports: Papua New Guinea: Jobs, Economic Growth and International
Competitiveness (Report No. 11653-PNG), May 3, 1993; Papua New Guinea: Restructuring For Broad-Based
Development Opportunities and Challenges (Report No. 12982-PNG), May 9, 1994; and Papua New Guinea:
Delivering Public Services (Report No. 14414-PNG), June 1995.



net domestic financing of the budget, net credit by the banking system to the Government, and ceilings
on non-concessional Government borrowing with maturity of less than 12 years, 5 years, and short-term
debt.
22.   Monetary policies, which have been accommodative, were tightened significantly through an
increase in the Minimum Liquid Asset Ratio (MLAR) from 11 percent to 26 percent over October-
December 1994 period, as well as more aggressive sales of government paper. MLAR was raised to 32
percent by May 1995, to dampen the adverse impact on the liquidity position of the commercial banks
of settlement of Government arrears to domestic suppliers in early 1995. The monetary and credit
policies for the medium-term are targeted to achieve and maintain a low rate of inflation while making
adequate provision in credit expansion for the private sector. The rate of inflation is targeted to fall
sharply from a projected 14 percent (December-to-December) in 1995 to 5 percent in 1996 and 3 percent
in 1997-in line with PNG's major trading partners. This will be achieved through pursuit of tight
monetary policy involving a binding MLAR for the commercial banks in the short run, market-determined
interest rates through pursuit of open market operations, and a tighter limit on the Government's overdraft
facility with BPNG through the operation of the temporary advance account. Furthermore, BPNG has
relaxed the guidelines on the maximum spread for commercial banks' lending rates.
23.   The floating of the kina in October 1994 and its depreciation of about 30 percent (since August
1994) to US$0.75/kina in July 1995 has improved PNG's relative competitiveness and fiscal position
since the Government is a net foreign exchange earner. Experience with the twice-daily auctions for
foreign exchange, introduced as a transitional measure in October 1994, has been generally satisfactory.
However, to avoid inefficiencies in the operation of the auction due to the structure and the size of the
market, BPNG will introduce before the release of the second tranche, in consultation with the
commercial banks and with technical assistance from the Reserve Bank of Australia and the IMF, a fully
functioning continuous (screen based) market in which prices are posted, and transactions concluded, by
electronic communications. The role of BPNG will be limited to that of a foreign exchange broker, and
the market will be open to all licensed foreign exchange dealers.
B.    Fiscal Restructuring and Improved Service Delivery
24.   The Supply Bill introduced in November 1994 and the 1995 Budget approved by the Parliament
in March 1995 included new revenue measures to offset a decline in projected tax revenues from the
resource sector. These included: (i) subjecting all government departments, agencies, and Statutory
Authorities to import duties; (ii) raising excise taxes on cigarettes and tobacco products by 20 percent,
and introducing an excise tax of K3/liter on alcoholic spirits; (iii) raising government fees and charges
in line with changes in the CPI; (iv) introducing a stamp duty of 5 percent on retail price of lottery
tickets; (v) re-introducing fringe benefits in the assessment of personal income tax liability; and (vi)
raising the middle duty rate from 33 percent to 40 percent. These measures were estimated to yield
additional revenue of about 2 percent of GDP in 1995.
25.   Given the projected decline over the medium-term in revenues from the mineral sector in relation
to GDP, the Government also intends to expand the tax base by introducing a broad-based consumption
tax and enhancing revenue collections, including strengthening of the Internal Revenue Commission (IRC)
to conduct more comprehensive tax audits of the mining and logging companies. The application of the
external surveillance systems to discourage misreporting of exports, particularly in the case of logs, has
begun to show positive impact on revenue; the Government intends to extend this to the fisheries sector.
26.   The expenditure measures introduced in the context of the 1995 Budget included: (i) a reduction
of 7.5 percent in public service size by the end of 1995 through a freeze on recruitment and natural
attrition; (ii) limiting the wage and salary increase in 1995 to 3 percent in nominal terms, compared to



an annual average inflation rate of 17.5 percent; and (iii) curbing foreign travel, financing of political
parties' activities, political appointments, and the use of Government-funded foreign consultants. These
measures are expected to lower the wage and salary bill from 8 percent of GDP in 1994 to 6.4 percent
of GDP in 1995.
27.   The wage and salary bill has been accounting for 19 percent of total expenditures over the 1991-
94 period, leaving inadequate amounts for provision of goods and services. The Government has
identified a total of 4,300 positions comprising 1,700 funded vacant positions and 2,600 redundant staff
to be removed from the payroll in 1995. Furthermore, the Government has indicated its intention to
freeze wages and salaries at their March 1995 levels through December 1995. It will also shortly embark
on a review of the entire benefits package for the civil service, with a view to introducing the
recommendations of the review in the 1996 budget. Steps have been taken to remove the unauthorized
positions/staff from the payroll by early 1996 through creation of master list for the public sector and
strengthen the payroll audit and control. These measures are expected to lower the wage bill further to
6.2 percent of GDP in 1996 and 5.7 percent of GDP in 1997. However, these figures do not yet include
the effects of the revised Organic Law.
28.   Agreement with the Bank on annual recurrent budgets and a three-year rolling Public Investment
Program (PIP) is a cornerstone of the Government's reform program. This includes targets for minimum
shares of expenditures for: (i) primary and secondary education, and primary health and hospital services;
and (ii) agriculture and renewable natural resources (excluding price stabilization fund), transport and
communications, and economic and infrastructure development. It also includes agreement on allocations
for projects included in the PIP. The Government has introduced expenditure reallocations in 1995 as
agreed with the Bank with a view to increasing resources for the priority sectors. It has also increased
with effect from July 1, 1995, fees for out-patient and many in-patient services, and it intends to
introduce by the end of 1995, on a pilot basis in two urban centers, steps to allow and enable hospitals
to contract directly with private pharmaceutical suppliers, including putting in place measures to monitor
and assess experience. Furthermore, the Government has raised by 30 percent fees for tuition, board and
lodging for tertiary education effective for the 1995 school year, and plans to initiate steps to introduce
a voucher or a similar non-cash system which meets the affordability test during 1996.
29.   The new system of provincial and local-level governments which was introduced in June 1995,
is expected to become fully operational following the general elections in 1997, although new regional
governments are to be formed before the end of September 1995. Currently, there are no reliable
estimates of the possible impact of the reforms on government finances and on service delivery and the
public service restructuring, and a detailed assessment will need to be carried out before the 1996 budget.
However, preliminary estimates indicate that the additional financial cost could amount to K50 million
in 1995 and K100 million per year during 1996-98; in addition, transfers from the national Government
budget to the provinces are expected to increase by about K200 million per year. The reforms are
expected to be financed through cuts in other government expenditures, as well as measures to broaden
the tax base. Given weak administrative capacity to monitor the utilization of funds at the local level,
the Government plans to establish before the release of the second tranche of the proposed loan standards
for delivery of essential services by provincial and local-level governments.
30.   To keep the overall fiscal deficit at a sustainable level the quality and efficiency of expenditures
need to improve sharply, focusing on doing more with less, spending more on investment and less on
consumption, and lowering the cost of public services while applying cost recovery principles in certain
areas.  In this context, institutional mechanisms for budget preparation and implementation, and
expenditure control and monitoring need to be strengthened.



- 9 -
31.   A separation of recurrent and development budget has been introduced in the context of the 1995
budget-the revised Financial Management Act prohibits a shift of allocations from development to
recurrent budget. Furthermore, a monthly commitment and payment management system has been
introduced in the Department of Finance; expenditure requests are submitted by agencies and departments
separately for the recurrent and development budgets, and two separate warrants are issued to authorize
expenditure commitments. To avoid over-commitment of expenditures, they are matched against
projected revenues and receipts, and monthly fluctuations are smoothed through the operation of a
temporary revenue advance account (a revolving fund) with BPNG. The operation of this facility will
be strengthened by enforcing a cumulative limit on balance due to BPNG in order to keep the extension
of credit to Government at a prudent level.
32.   To improve draw-down of donor funds, availability of resources for capital expenditures, and
implementation of the public investment program (PIP), the Government now allows the implementing
line agencies to: (i) draw funds from kina project accounts, which have been recently established; and
(ii) use the direct payment facilities of various donors to make payments to overseas suppliers of goods
and services, compared to using own funds and then requesting reimbursement from donors.
Furthermore, the Government now releases quarterly counterpart allocations into the project accounts,
based on an agreed cash-flow estimate with the implementing line agencies, to expedite implementation.
33.   The project cycle in PNG is very long and it normally takes between two to four years to take
an investment from inception to start-up of project activities. To substantially reduce this lag, the
Government removed in early 1995 the requirement for several intermediate approvals by various
committees, and abolished the role of the Permanent Parliamentary Committee for Public Works in the
project ratification process.
34.   The Government intends to strengthen the national planning function, including coordinating
donor activities in the country in line with Papua New Guinea's development priorities. In that context,
it has established a separate Department of Planning with a view to dividing the former Department of
Finance and Planning, strengthening the planning and foreign aid management functions through the
restructuring of the budgeting, loan and revenue accounting, and the aid liaison functions.
35.   The implementation of the above measures is expected to result in a sustainable fiscal deficit with
improved levels of public investment in social and physical infrastructure.  The reallocation of
expenditures and institutional change is also expected to reestablish a minimum of public services.
Furthermore, lower deficits and, therefore, lower domestic borrowing, would assist the Government to
achieve macroeconomic stability.
C.    Private Sector Development and Supply Response
36.   To improve private sector participation, business confidence needs to be nurtured through
consistent implementation of sound macroeconomic and sectoral policies. In this context, supporting
measures including complementary investments in social, physical and administrative infrastructure are
essential and seriously lacking. The 1995 Budget includes measures aimed at facilitating private sector
participation in the growth process through restoration of confidence and streamlining the operation of
the tax and tariff systems, and the regulatory and legal framework.
37.   The proposed operation will support the Government's effort to: (i) remove restrictions on foreign
investment in manufacturing and construction activities listed as "reserved activities"; (ii) fully liberalize
domestic and external trade by abolishing all export and import licensing requirements; and (iii) replace
quantitative restrictions and import bans by prohibitive tariff rates for cement, canned fish, and beef/lamb,
fresh fruits and vegetables, remove other non-tariff barriers on imports, and lower such duty rates to



- 10 -
internationally acceptable levels over a five-year period.  The Government has also initiated a
comprehensive tariff and indirect taxation reform study with support from donors. The study is aimed
at reviewing the present system, identifying the shortcomings, and recommending an action plan to
streamline, beginning in the 1996 Budget, the system in line with PNG's comparative advantage and fiscal
requirements.
38.   The Government with effect from June 30, 1995, has abolished price justification for the
following industries-bakeries, breweries, soft drink manufacturing and dairies; and has decontrolled
wholesale and retail prices and margins for beer, soft drinks, fresh fruits and vegetables, meat pies,
theaters, rubber and plastic thongs, stock feeds, and plywood products (accounting for about 15 percent
of the consumption basket). The impact of this policy on the cost of living will be assessed in late 1995
before decontrolling prices on the remaining items.
39.   The Government has announced a privatization program, in the context of the 1995 Budget. Over
the next year, the Government intends to complete: (i) the redemption of its preferred shares in Ramu
Sugar Holdings; and (ii) the sale of its 50 percent equity interest in PNG Forest Products Pty. Ltd. It
has also agreed to refrain from equity participation in any non-mining commercial project, while
completing the sale of: (i) 5.1 percent of its holdings in the Porgera Joint Venture to Porgera landowners;
and (ii) divesting ROADCO. The Government has also announced its intention to float its interest in the
Mineral Resources Development Company (MRDC) by 1997.
40.   Private investment in the non-mining sector has in the past been encouraged through granting
costly tax and duty concessions and holidays, based on Government or cabinet members approval, and
many times included Government equity participation. The Government intends to initiate shortly
formulation of an investment promotion policy for Papua New Guinea, with an incentive framework
entrenched in the revised income tax and customs legislation. In that context, it intends to limit the role
of the Investment Promotion Authority to that of promoting private investment and providing advisory
services in support of investment. The Government has, however, agreed to discontinue the approval
requirements (including those by the Investment Promotion Authority) for private-funded investment
projects and refrain from signing or endorsing contracts with private investors concerning special tax and
duty concessions, financial guarantee, and trade monopoly rights, other than those provided under existing
legislation.
41.   To promote exports, the Government will review the regulatory procedures for non-traditional
exports with a view to streamlining the existing duty drawback system based on raw material and
intermediate content of exports, and will ensure adequate funding for the payment of duty drawback in
the budget.
42.   Among the most significant deterrents to supply response in PNG are the country's very high
nominal and reservation wage rates and low productivity. Particularly public sector wages, which largely
determine the wages for skilled labor, remain high by any regional standard. The Government awarded
a 3 percent salary increase effective January 1, 1995, with 1.5 percent backdated to January 1, 1994.
However, to bring public sector salaries more in line with the level of its productivity, real salaries and
wages for civil servants will be reduced through imposition of a wage freeze for the remainder of 1995,
and reducing benefits and emoluments. The Government has stated that it is committed to pursuing a
wage setting policy for the rest of the economy based on market forces.
43.   Provided these reforms are effectively implemented, non-mining private investment is expected
to rise steadily to support sustainable growth and employment creation. Trade and price reform should
lead to more effective competition and lower costs to the consumers. Finally, non-traditional exports are
expected to improve based on more realistic and competitive wages.



- 11 -
D.    Sustainable Forestry
44.   Over the past several years, rapid increases in the number of logging operations and concentration
of licenses in a few forest areas have led to unsustainable forestry practices in some provinces. However,
the resource-rent has not been shared equitably between the Government, local landowners, and the
operators. The Government enacted in 1991 an effective Forestry Act to address this problem.
Commitment to an independent Forestry Authority has wavered since and support remains fragile.
45.   The proposed operation will support the Government in adopting an effective forestry policy
which ensures long-term sustainability of forest resources. The key elements of such a forest policy
would be ensuring sustainability of resources through a transparent licensing system and protecting
independent institutions to manage forest resources, and a fair and equitable revenue sharing arrangement
between the Government, the landowners, and the operators. In that context, the Government has
recently made public announcements that it will refrain from causing any amendments to the Forestry Act
of 1991, and fully supports the Forest Authority and the Board, for the approval, issue or suspension,
or modification, of timber licenses, permits or authorities. The Government is also committed to ensure
that areas of natural forests are managed on a sustainable basis by: (i) limiting the annual harvest to one
thirty-fifth of the net loggable area within each project for new projects; (ii) for existing operating
projects, disallowing unused permitted cuts to be brought forward, not extending or expanding existing
operating projects unless they conform to the same sustainability requirements as placed on new projects,
inclusive of the extension or expansion; and using negotiation, project review, and best endeavors to limit
the aggregate annual harvest from currently existing operating concessions and extensions to 1994 levels;
and for projects with exceptional circumstances in 1994, to allow minimum cuts as specified in the
permits; and (iii) enforcing environmental protection standards set by the Department of Environment and
Conservation. In that context, a recently signed large logging concession was awarded by the Forest
Authority on the basis of the agreed new sustainable cut cycle.
46.   The Forest Authority has adopted a forestry and operational code of conduct (the regionally-
sponsored Suva Code of Conduct) for implementation in the field. It, however, intends to adopt, once
completed, PNG's own Code of Logging Practice. The Government has provided adequate budgetary
resources for the Forest Authority and the independent surveillance activity, and is comnmitted to maintain
such levels of funding at their real 1995 terms.
47.   The implementation of the Government's forestry policy is expected to substantially improve
sustainability of forest resources, generate higher rents for the local landowners-accounting for one-
eighth of the total population-and yield higher revenues for the Government at acceptable profit margins
for the operators.
E.    Cooperation with IMF, ADB, and Other Donors.
48.   IMF and Bank staff have worked closely with the authorities in developing a stabilization and
structural adjustment program for PNG in the context of a stand-by arrangement and the proposed loan.
Article IV consultations are being conducted annually, and IMF Board discussion of the proposed stand-
by arrangement for SDR71.5 million covering an 18 month period ending December 1996, was held on
July 14, 1995. The Bank also works closely with ADB, AusAID, and other donors and joint efforts are
under way to improve implementation, sector analysis, and policy dialogue.
49.   Australia has been supporting the Government's development effort by providing budgetary grants
of about A$300 million annually, largely in the form of untied budget support but substantially through
provision of technical assistance and consultancy for projects in six priority sectors. Concerned with the
effectiveness of aid utilization over the past several years, Australia has been increasing the share of



- 12 -
project-specific grants in their support package, particularly for the social sectors and law and order. The
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) of Japan has also been providing substantial financing to
PNG in support of investment projects in rehabilitation of economic infrastructure, particularly road and
air transport. OECF also co-financed with the Bank PNG's structural adjustment program in 1990.
Japan Export-Import Bank is also providing balance of payments financing for the Government's reform
program.
50.   The Bank's work on forestry has been coordinated closely with domestic and international NGOs-
-through the National Alliance of NGOs in PNG and with WWF, the Nature Conservancy and
Conservation International. A trust fund managed by the World Bank has directed substantial funds to
local NGOs for forestry conservation activities over the last two years. The price and trade reforms have
the support of local business and civic organizations. In recent weeks the issue of land registration
(which is part of an ongoing Land Mobilisation Project) has been used by vested political interests to
create a wedge between some local NGOs and the structural adjustment program--although there is no
explicit conditionality on this. As the true facts become known, this agitation is getting defused.
F.    Poverty Impact
51.   The program is projected to restart some growth in output and employment in the non-mining
economy in the medium term through macroeconomic and structural policies. While improvement in
primary health care, and primary education and other measures to address the high illiteracy rate, have
priority targets for some time, budget allocations will now be safe-guarded. To provide the poor with
increased access to health and education facilities, the urban bias in the provision of services will be
addressed. Special programs targeted at protecting vulnerable groups during the transition period are
being developed in consultation with churches and other civic institutions active in PNG, for funding
through the budget and donors. The Government has adopted a national population policy which
emphasizes the negative impact of rapid population growth on both individual welfare, in particular for
women and children, and the ability to achieve development goals and reduce poverty.
52.   The poverty impact of the program will be monitored through movements in food price indices
for both the rural and urban areas as well as in the real wage and employment indices for the private
sector. Furthermore, actual budgetary expenditures on the social sectors, particularly for primary health
care and education, and expenditures targeting rural development through NGOs and churches will be
closely monitored.
G.    Environmental Impact
53.   The proposed operation should have an important, positive impact on the environment. This
would stem from its support for strengthening and enforcement of the legal and regulatory framework
governing the activities of the private sector in: (i) the forestry sector through increasing the export tax
on round logs, limiting the number of licenses consistent with internationally acceptable cut cycle, and
enhanced surveillance of logging operations; and (ii) the fisheries sector through the application of
licensing and fisheries monitoring and surveillance system. More reliable budgetary allocations for
Government departments responsible for protecting the environment, namely, the National Forest
Authority, and the Departments of Environment and Conservation, Agriculture and Livestock, Fisheries
and Marine Resources, and Mineral Resources will help these departments to formulate and then start
implementing a reliable, albeit still minimal, program.



- 13 -
H.    Management and Monitoring of the Program
54.   Built on the implementation experience with the last SAL, the management and monitoring aspects
of the proposed loan are designed to help with timely implementation of actions and coordinate measures
to maintain the program on course. The Government has set up a Structural Adjustment Programme
Implementation Secretariat (SAPIS) under the supervision of the Minister of Finance, and assisted by the
Programme Implementation Manager as well as Secretaries of key line departments and agencies. SAPIS
will closely coordinate and monitor timely implementation of the Government's reform program and
report on a monthly basis to the Minister of Finance as well as the Bank and other financiers on the
performance of the economy. The Banking Operations Department in BPNG will oversee procurement
and disbursement under the proposed loan.
1.    Loan Amount and Tranching
55.   The loan amount proposed in support of the Government's adjustment program is US$50 million,
which takes into account the external financing requirements and the support likely to become available
from other donors in 1995 and part of 1996. The proceeds of the loan will be used to finance general
imports, with a few standard exclusions. Counterpart funds generated by the sale of foreign exchange
will be available for financing the budget. The loan will be made available in two tranches of
US$25 million each: the first tranche will become available immediately upon effectiveness, while the
second tranche will be made available after a satisfactory review of the implementation of the agreed
actions and achievement of second tranche release conditions in November/December 1995. The loan
will close on September 30, 1996. To enable the Government to increase its initial reserve position, it
is proposed to finance up to US$10 million of imports dated back up to four months prior to the loan
signing. If program implementation remains satisfactory, and additional prior actions for second tranche
release are implemented by the Government, the proposed ERP loan could be followed by a second
adjustment operation to support the second phase of the Government's reform program in 1996. The
exact timing and conditionality of a proposed follow-up operation would, however, be based on the
outcome of further discussion and negotiation, the implementation of prior actions, and elaboration of
structural reforms for the agricultural and rural finance sectors.
2.    Procurement and Disbursement
56.   Procurement regulations for the public sector do permit competitive bidding and generally require
three price quotations for non-ICB procurement. The private sector usually follows normal commercial
practices. In this context, imports of US$3 million or more by the public and private sectors would be
subject to standard ICB procedures using standard documents acceptable to the Bank. To streamline
disbursements, imports below US$3 million would be procured in accordance with the borrower's public
procurement procedures or established commercial practices, including quotations from at least two
eligible countries. Direct contracting would be acceptable for proprietary equipments and spare parts
required for reasons of compatibility with existing equipments. Pre-shipment inspection procedures will
be required for quality, quantity and price verification. Any ICB procurement financed under the loan
will be subject to prior review by the Bank. Such procurement will be exempt from price verification,
but quality and quantity inspection will be enforced.
57.   To facilitate disbursement, an amount of US$5 million will be deposited initially in a special
account, with funds being made available to the local commercial banks. Applications for replenishment
of the special account will be submitted monthly, or when withdrawals equal one-fourth of the amount
advanced. Applications will be fully documented (bidding documents, evaluation reports, contract,
invoices, bills of lading, and evidence of payment) with respect to payments against contracts of US$3
million or more. Payments against contracts of less than US$3 million will be made on the basis of



- 14 -
statements of expenditures certified by the Customs Division of the Internal Revenue Commission.
58.   The statements of expenditures will be prepared from the Customs Certificates showing that
eligible goods at least equal in value to the amount requested from the Bank have been imported into
PNG during the period under consideration. The Customs Certificate will be retained by BPNG for
review by visiting supervision missions and the external auditors until one year after the closing of the
operation. Contracts valued at less than US$5,000 will not be eligible for Bank financing under the loan.
Annual audit reports will be required and will include a separate audit of amounts withdrawn on the basis
of statements of expenditures and on the special account.
3.     Conditions of Board Presentation, Effectiveness, and Second Tranche Release
59.   According to the program completion report of the last Structural Adjustment Loan for Papua
New Guinea, the program design and implementation suffered from lack of sufficient specificity of the
required reform measures. This left room for interpretation by the Government and created confusion
as to what exactly needed to be implemented. Against this background, the matrix of policy actions has
been designed with considerable specificity as regards the conditions to be met in order to achieve the
five key objectives of the program.
60.   The Government has undertaken a number of measures since August 1994, when it took office,
particularly in the context of the 1995 Budget, to arrest further deterioration in macroeconomic
performance through curtailing expenditures and enhancing revenue collections. These actions are
presented in the policy matrix (Annex 11) under the "actions already taken" column. The Government
plans to implement additional reform measures in the medium term to set the economy on a sustainable
growth path.
61.   Board Presentation Conditions.  The financing gap for 1995 would also be closed after
including disbursements under the proposed loan. The IMF Board approved on July 14, 1995 the
Government's request for a stand-by arrangement in the amount of SDR71.5 million, and the Government
of Australia and Japan Export-Import Bank have also approved their respective financing packages for
PNG. Board presentation conditions, supported by a set of actions, which have already been taken, were
in four areas as follows:
(A)   Macroeconomic Stabilization and Fiscal Management:
*     Comply with the ceilings set on macroeconomic aggregates for end-June 1995, including
net domestic financing of the budget and net credit to the Government; and
*     Establish in the Department of Finance a monthly expenditure commitment and payment
management system acceptable to the Bank.
(B)    Private Sector Promotion and Supply Response:
*     Secure Cabinet approval and announce the amendment of the regulations for the
Investment Promotion Act to remove restrictions on foreign investment and participation
in manufacturing and construction activities;
*     Abolish in the context of the 1995 Budget export and import licensing requirements
(except those necessitated by health and security considerations), and replace quantitative
restrictions and import bans by tariff rates for fresh fruits and vegetables, and canned
meat and fish. Announce a five-year timetable to lower such rates to internationally
acceptable levels. Revise and announce agricultural quarantine and health requirements
for rice and other food imports to meet internationally acceptable standards; and



- 15 -
*      Price  Controller to  gazette  abolishing  price  justification  for  the  following
industries-bakeries, breweries, soft drink manufacturing and dairies; and decontrol
wholesale and retail prices and margins for beer, soft drinks, fresh fruits and vegetables,
meat pies, theaters, rubber thongs, stock feeds, and plywood products.
(C)    Public Service Delivery:
*      Fully operationalize the Gazelle Restoration Authority and meet its expenditure targets
for end-June 1995;
*      Introduce legislation enabling the implementing line agencies to set up kina project
accounts for donor-funded projects and separate departmental development accounts for
government funded projects, and allocate funds in line with cash flow projections to
facilitate implementation of development projects; and
*      Revise the approved budgetary allocations for 1995 to reflect overall expenditure targets
agreed with the World Bank, including targets for minimum shares of actual expenditures
for: (i) primary and secondary education and primary health and hospital services (25
percent); and (ii) agriculture and renewable natural resources (excluding price
stabilization fund), transport and communications, and economic and infrastructure
development (25 percent), in total expenditures (recurrent and development), exclusive
of "multi-functional" expenditures and public debt charges.
(D)    Promoting Sustainable Development:
*      Secure Cabinet approval for the Forest Authority to adopt guidelines:  (i) for new
projects, limiting the annual harvest to one thirty-fifth of the net loggable area within
each project; (ii) for existing operating projects, disallowing unused permitted cuts to be
brought forward, not extending or expanding existing operating projects unless they
conform to the same sustainability requirements as placed on new projects, inclusive of
the extension or expansion; and using negotiation, project review, and best endeavors to
limit the aggregate annual harvest from currently existing operating concessions and
extensions to 1994 levels. For projects with exceptional circumstances in 1994 to allow
minimum cuts as specified in the permits; and (iii) enforcing environmental protection
standards set by the Department of Environment and Conservation; and
*      Forest Authority to adopt a forestry and operational code of conduct acceptable to the
Bank (e.g., the Suva Code of Conduct or, once completed, PNG's Code of Logging
Practice) for implementation in the field; and allocate and maintain agreed-upon budgets
and surveillance activities for forest resources.
62.    Effectiveness. There are no special effectiveness conditions to be met.
63.    Conditions of Second Tranche Release. The second tranche of the proposed loan will be
released after a satisfactory review of the Government's progress in implementing the reform program
as well as full implementation of the following key conditions, supported by a set of actions:
(A)    Macroeconomic Stabilization and Fiscal Management:
*      Continue to maintain a sound macroeconomic framework, consistent with the objectives
of the Program, as determined on the basis of indicators agreed to by the Borrower and
the Bank;



- 16 -
*      Establish a foreign currency auction system based on a continuous posting of transactions,
and in which the rate of exchange of the kina shall be market-determined; and
*      Carry out a review, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, of the
benefits package for civil service employees, including redundancy benefits, and furnish
a copy of such review to the Bank.
(B)    Private Sector Promotion and Supply Response:
*      Replace quantitative restrictions on imports, and imports bans, on cement, and on all cuts
and packaging forms of beef and lamb, by tariff rates; announce in the context of the
1996 Budget, a five-year timetable for lowering the above rates to internationally
acceptable levels.
(C)   Public Service Delivery:
*      Comply with expenditure targets for October 31, 1995, for the Gazelle Restoration
Authority's emergency relief program agreed with the Bank;
*      Achieve the following minimum expenditure shares of total expenditures: (i) 25 percent
for primary and secondary education, and primary health and hospital services; and (ii)
25 percent for agriculture, renewable natural resources (excluding disbursements from
the price stabilization fund), transport, communications, economic development, and
infrastructure development.  "Total expenditures" are here defined as the sum of
recurrent expenditures and the public investment program expenditures (development) less
the multi-functional expenditures and the public debt charges;
-     Present to Parliament a budget for 1996, acceptable to the Bank, such budget estimates
to include: (i) agreed shares for primary and secondary education, health and hospital
services, agriculture, renewable natural resources, transport, communications, economic
development, and infrastructure development; and (ii) a public investment program for
1996 through 1998;
i      The Government to: (i) establish standards for the quality and quantity of social services,
physical infrastructure services, and agricultural services to be provided by provincial and
local-level governments; and (ii) furnish to the Bank a proposed action plan for the
implementation of the provincial and local-level governments reform program, including
staffing and financial implications of said reform program; and
*      Take all measures necessary to establish, in at least two urban areas, a system, acceptable
to the Bank, to enable hospitals to enter into direct contractual relationships with private
pharmaceutical suppliers for the supply of drugs.
(D)   Promoting Sustainable Development:
*      Maintaining agreed policies.
4.     Risks and Benefits
64.    PNG enjoyed a reasonably stable macroeconomic environment in the 1970s and 1980s. In the
early 1990s, however, macroeconomic management has been subject to stronger political interference and
the Government's performance in managing public finances has not been satisfactory. Facing a financial
crisis and reluctance by PNG's traditional donors to support its policy stance, have helped the



- 17 -
Government appreciate that it has to deal now with more difficult and deep-rooted structural problems,
including sharply deteriorating social indicators and rising urban unemployment and serious law and order
problems, if PNG is to survive in more open international markets and improve the standard of living
of the majority of its population. There are, however, several risks facing the implementation of the
Government's development strategy and the reform program. These are:
65.   Sustained Governent Commitment to Reform. The support for the reform program is mixed
and fragile. The Government needs to provide additional supporting information to the public and
implement a broad-based action plan to convince PNG's public that it is not business as usual. Given
PNG's difficult track record in sustaining reform policies or other forms of consensus, there is a risk that:
(i) consensus is limited to pronouncements and could falter if implementation actions have to be executed;
(ii) the coalition Government would not be able to sustain the reforms for long especially if the recovery
turns out to be slower than projected; and (iii) support may dissipate as soon as other financing sources
become available, e.g., commercial borrowing or MRDC share float, in order to avoid politically difficult
measures. Rent-seeking opportunities lost to vested interest groups (such as logging interests and trade
monopolists) as well as a weakening of resolve by the leadership as the crisis passes and the election year
(1997) approaches, are further important risks facing the implementation of the program. It must be
recognized that in the past six months the Government has implemented a number of difficult measures.
66.   Weak Implementation Capacity.  The Government's program  is a change from present
practices. It assumes broad-based commitment to implementation and results on the ground. Thus, it
requires first and foremost a change in attitude in the civil service supplemented with a deliberate capacity
building effort involving other service providers. The Government intends to take the steps needed to
streamline rules and guidelines by removing unnecessary bureaucratic requirements. At the same time,
the recently approved provincial and local-level government reform poses a large challenge and
opportunity for the existing limited capacity. While technical assistance will be available to PNG from
donors as well as from the Bank, there is weak ownership of the program and consequently a risk that
program implementation could be slower than anticipated, which would frustrate efforts by the limited
numbers of reformers in the Government. In view of the geographical, tribal, and administrative realities
in PNG, the challenges are formidable.
67.   Export and Export Price Volatility.  PNG's external and budgetary position is heavily
dependent on export receipts. Given the assumed timing for the start-up of production of the Lihir gold
project and the Gobe oilfield project, the uncertainty of a supply response given PNG's fragile consensus
and economic realities, as well as the volatility of world market prices for PNG exports, the financing
picture is subject to some uncertainty and requires close monitoring.
68.   If implemented as envisaged, the program is expected to, in the short term, help stabilize the
economy and protect its creditworthiness. In the medium term, the quality and coverage of public
services are expected to improve as a result of more focussed and rational distribution of resources in
favor of basic social services and economic infrastructure rehabilitation. More accountability and more
local participation are also expected to yield a more efficient use of scarce public resources. The change
in the incentive framework and a liberalization of trade and investment, combined with the exchange rate
liberalization and stability of the Government and its policy stance, would contribute to achieving a more
sustainable growth in output and employment combined with price stability, with less reliance on the
resource sector. The operation is also expected to promote a sustainable exploitation of PNG's forest
resources with a more equitable distribution of resource rent between the various actors involved.
69.   Overall, cash crop farmers, small savers and entrepreneurs who have the initiative and the capital
are expected to benefit from the reform program, while monopolists, public servants, and politicians with
no incentive for change stand to lose.



- 18 -
70.   Financial Terms. PNG agreed to convert its VLR82 loans in order to become eligible for the
expanded single currency loan program. It selected US dollar terms to provide a better diversification
of its overall external liabilities. Although PNG would have preferred a fixed interest rate basis to
diversify its interest risks, it selected LIBOR-based terms in order to preserve the full 20-year loan
amortization.
5.     Loan History
71.   The preparation of the proposed loan was carried out in the context of an identification mission
in October 1994, an economic mission in February 1995, a pre-appraisal mission in April 1995, and the
appraisal mission in July 1995. The policy agenda draws heavily on the findings of a comprehensive and
elaborate review carried out by Bank in 1994 of the macroeconomic situation and requirements for
restructuring of the economy, as well as on the findings of a review of Public Service Delivery which
was carried out between August 1994 and February 1995.
IV. RECOMMENDATION
72.   I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the IBRD
and recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Attachments
Washington D.C.
August 7, 1995



ANNEX I
Page I of 3
PNG: NATIONAL ACCOUNTS, 1993-2000
1993      1994      1995        1996      1997       1998      1999      2000
Annual percentage growth rates
Gross domestic product                              16.6       3.5       -3.0        1.4        1.2       6.7      -0.7        1.1
oAv Nonmining                                       4.2        6.1       0.8         4.9       3.8        4.5       3.3       3.2
(excl. Forestry)                                             4.5       -0.9        5.6        3.1       3.5        3.1       3.0
Agriculture                                         9.5       6.0        8.7        4.1        5.6       6.3        3.5       3.4
Forestry                                          48.3      21.4       15.3       -0.2        9.4      11.8        4.6       4.1
Other                                                        0.8        5.9        5.9        4.0       3.8        3.0       3.1
Industry                                           35.8      -0.5       -6.9       -3.4       -1.7      11.9       -6.3      -1.5
Mining & Petroleum                                62.5      -2.7      -14.1      -10.3       -9.1      16.5      -16.5      -9.1
Manufacturing                                      1.6      -0.1       -2.6        6.0        7.0       5.0        5.0       5.0
Construction                                     -12.9      11.8       27.5       10.0       10.0      10.0        8.0       7.0
Services                                            5.2       5.2      -11.2        1.5        0.4       2.7        2.1       2.1
Government                                         5.7      10.1      -23.8       -3.2       -7.6      -1.9       -2.9      -2.9
Gross domestic investment                           -6.8     -22.7       51.0       29.3       -0.8      -5.1       -0.8       3.2
Fixed investment                                   -6.8     -28.5       51.0       31.8       -0.8      -5.1       -0.8       3.2
Public                                                      -30.9      66.3       34.0       25.8       5.7        0.0       2.0
Private                                                    -27.9       47.1       31.2       -8.6      -9.4       -1.1       3.7
Mineral                                                   -50.8      222.9       46.4      -25.3     -61.8      -13.6       0.2
Nonmineral                                                 -18.8       4.5       19.8        6.6      24.2        1.3       4.3
Percentage shares of gross domestic product
(from constant price data)
Gross domestic product                             100.0     100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0
o/w Nonmining                                      71.3       72.9      75.8        78.4      80.6       79.0      82.3      84.1
Agriculture                                        27.7      28.5       32.2       33.4       34.8      34.4       35.9      36.6
Forestry                                           7.0       8.3   .   9.9         9.8       10.6      11.1       11.6      12.0
Industry                                           42.5      41.1       39.7       38.2       37.1      38.7       36.5      35.5
Mining& Petroleum                                 28.7      27.1       24.2       21.6       19.4      21.0       17.7      15.9
Manufacturing                                      8.5       8.3        8.4        88         9.3       9.1        9.7      10.0
Construction                                       3.9       4.3        5.7        6.2        6.7       6.9        7.5       7.9
Services                                           29.8      30.4       28.1       28.4       28.2      26.9       27.7      27.9
Government                                        14.8      15.8       12.5       12.1       11.0      10.0        9.8       9.4
Gross domestic investment                           19.7      14.7       22.8       29.1       28.5      25.4       25.4      25.9
Fixed investment                                   20.3      14.0       21.8       28.3       27.7      24.7       24.6      25.1
Public                                             4.3       2.8        4.9        6.4        8.0       7.9        8.0       8.0
Private                                           16.0      11.1       16.9       21.9       19.7      16.7       16.7      17.1
Mineral                                           4.6       2.2        7.2       10.5        7.7       2.8        2.4       2.4
Nonmineral                                       11.4       9.0        9.7       11.4       12.0      14.0       14.3      14.7
Change in stocks                                   -0.6       0.7        1.1        0.8        0.8       0.7        0.7       0.8
(from current price data)
Gross domestic saving                               42.0      36.1       37.3       33.0       30.7      34.4      31.4       31.0
Public                                             -4.2      -2.0        0.8        2.9        2.9       2.2        2.6       3.6
Private                                            46.2      38.1       36.5       30.1       27.8      32.2       28.8      27.4
Net factor income                                   -7.5      -7.3       -7.4       -8.6       -8.3      -6.9       -6.1      -6.7
Net current transfers                               -2.5      -2.8       -2.7       -2.6       -2.5      -2.3       -2.3      -2.2
Gross national saving                               31.9      26.1       27.2       21.8       19.9      25.2       23.0      22.1
Source: Government of PNG and Bank staff estimates and projections.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
PNG: CENTRAL GOVERNMENT FISCAL OPERATIONS, 1993-2000
1993      1994      1995        1996      1997       1998      1999      2000
(millions of kina)
Total revenue and grants                            1309      1448      1572        1786      1787       1788      1828       1891
Tax revenue                                         978      1125      1181        1341      1307       1266      1304       1344
Nontax revenue                                      149       158       201         199       222        250       228       247
Grants                                              182       165       190         246       258        272       296       300
Total expenditure                                   1605      1573      1630        1851      1936       1958      2014       2031
Current                                            1392      1416      1321        1426      1393       1354      1397       1388
Capital                                             213       157       309         425       543        603       617        643
Overall balance                                     -297      -125       -58         -65      -149       -170      -186       -139
External financing (net)                              52      -118        10          88        58         77        73        62
Project financing                                    10       -11        56         141       176        214       215        216
New borrowing                                       58        46       111         170       210        251       256        257
less amortization                                   48        57        55          29        34         37        41         41
Program financing                                    0          0        70          82        24         12         0         0
Commercial                                           42      -107      -117        -134       -141      -149       -142      -154
New borrowing                                       97         0         0           0         0          0         0         0
less amortization                                   55       107       117         134        141       149       142        154
Domestic financing (net)                            245        244        49         -23        91         92       113        77
MRSF offshore payments                             -22        -69       -54           0         0          0         0         0
Domestic arrears                                     0         61      -145           0         0          0         0         0
Domestic borrowing                                 267        252       248         -23        91         92       113        77
BPNG                                              267        175       138          31       129        130       113        77
(percentage of GDP)
Total revenue and grants                            26.1      26.7      25.6        27.7       26.3      23.7       23.7      23.5
Tax revenue                                        19.5      20.7       19.2       20.8       19.2      16.8       16.9      16.7
Nontax revenue                                      3.0       2.9        3.3        3.1        3.3       3.3        3.0       3.1
Grants                                              3.6       3.0        3.1        3.8        3.8       3.6        3.8       3.7
Total expenditure                                   32.0      29.0       26.5       28.7       28.5      26.0       26.1      25.3
Current                                            27.7      26.1       21.5       22.1       20.5      18.0       18.1      17.3
Capital                                             4.3       2.9        5.0        6.6        8.0       8.0        8.0       8.0
Overall balance                                     -5.9      -2.3      -0.9        -1.0       -2.2      -2.3       -2.4      -1.7
(Excluding grants)                                 -9.5      -5.3       -4.0       -4.8       -6.0      -5.9       -6.3      -5.5
Domestic borrowing                                   5.3       4.6       4.0        -0.4        1.3       1.2        1.5       1.0
Source: Govemment of PNG and Bank staff estimates and projections.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
PNG: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, 1993-2000
(millions of USdollars)
1993      1994      1995        1996       1997       1998      1999       2000
Trade balance                                        1462      1394       1018         432       314        708       521        490
Exports, Lo.b.                                      2613      2708       2427       2296       2181       2508      2372       2362
Mining sector                                      1916      1826       1552        1410      1281       1530      1325       1241
Other                                               697       882        875         886       900        979      1047       1121
Imports, fo.b.                                     -1151     -1314      -1409       -1864     -1868      -1800      -1850     -1872
Mining sector                                      -269      -291       -388        -655      -573       -436       -443      -436
Other 1/                                           -882     -1023      -1021       -1209     -1295      -1364      -1407     -1436
Services and transfers, net                          -833      -792       -828       -867        -808      -742      -680       -740
Services, net                                       -930      -847       -864       -945       -901       -846      -803       -865
Of which: Mining sector                            -643      422        -458        -558      -556       -516       462       -527
Transfers, net                                        98        55         36          78        93        104        123       125
Of which: Official transfers 1/                     227       205        180        220        236        248       267        269
Carrcnt account (incl. granta)                        629       603        190       -435        494        -33       -159      -250
Mining sector                                      1004      1114       707          197       153        577       420        279
Other                                              -375      -511       -517        -632       -647      -611      -579       -529
Current account (excl. grants)                        403       397         11        -655      -731       -281      -426       -520
Capital account                                      -728      -696       -281        465        496         58       223        260
Official (net)                                       -82      -102        -50          43        58         85        90         83
Private (net)                                       -646       -594      -231         422       437        -27        133       177
Mining sector                                      -709       -550      -138         361       309       -123        27         66
Other 2/                                             63        -44       -93          61       128         96        105       110
Overall balance                                       -98       -93        -91         30          1         24        64          9
Mining sector                                       400       531        569         558       462        454       447        345
Other                                              499        -624      -659        -528       461       430       -383       -336
Change in net official reserves                       -98       -93        -91          30         1         24        64          9
Use of Fund credit                                   -15       -29         35          57         0         -9       -34        -41
Other reserve changes                                -84       -64       -126         -27         1         34        98         51
o/aFinancinggap(exc. IMFpurchases)                    0         -0       150         100        65          9         34        41
Memo itemn:
Current account (% of GDP)                          12.3       11.2       3.6        -8.1       -8.7      -0.5       -2.5      -3.8
(cxd. grants)                                       7.9        7.4       0.2       -12.2      -12.9      -4.5       -6.7       -7.8
Grow official reserves (end-periodXBPNG)             142        96        176        300        367        391       455        464
(In months of nonmining imports, cif)                1.8        1.0       1.8         2.6        3.0       10         3.4       3.4
Total externaldebt                                  3168      2415       2144        2409      2542       2480      2458       2413
(% of GDP)                                         61.8       44.7      41.1        44.7       44.9      39.6       38.4       36.3
Debt service                                         862       933       630         445        459        461       417        400
Debt service ratio 3/                               29.5       31.1      23.3        17.3       18.6      16.3       15.5       14.8
1/ There is change in data coverage from 1996 onwards to capture off-budget project disbursements.
2 Includes errors and omissions.
2VThe ratio of debt service to exports of goods and services including workers remittances.
Source: Government of PNG and Bank staff estimates and projections.






ANNEX II
Page 1 of 18
August----, 1995
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington, DC
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM LOAN
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
The Government of Papua New Guinea (PNG) has embarked on implementing a
comprehensive set of stabilization and structural reform measures aimed at fostering economic
recovery and achieving a sustainable growth in income and employment. The Government hereby
requests an Economic Recovery Program (ERP) Loan in support of its structural adjustment
program.
The Government's Structural Adjustment Program for 1995-96, articulated in consultation
with the World Bank and IMF staff, includes the following objectives and policies as reflected in the
attached matrix of policy actions which forms an integral part of this letter.
Background
Papua New Guinea's economy experienced an unprecedented financial crisis in 1994. The
crisis represented the outcome of several years of inadequate macroeconomic policies. Despite large
increases in recurrent government spending, particularly on personal emoluments, the quality and
coverage of essential public services, including provision of primary health care and education,
agricultural extension, road maintenance and basic infrastructure, and law and order, deteriorated.
During this period non-mining private investment also stagnated because the Kina (our
currency) became overvalued, the structural reforms that were needed were not addressed and
complementary public investment in social and physical infrastructure was not forthcoming.
Despite an improvement in PNG's terms of trade and a steady increase in the level of
exports, large debt service payments to finance past deficits and capital flight depleted our
international reserves. This Government, which took office in August 1994, responded to the crisis



ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 18
by introducing measures primarily aimed at stabilizing the economy and floated the currency in
October 1994, following a large devaluation in September 1994.
Government's Structural Adjustment Program
To address pressing liquidity problems, the Government introduced tight controls on non-
contractual expenditures to sharply reduce the budget deficit from over 10 percent of GDP in
annualized terms in July 1994 to 2.3 percent of GDP by the end of the fiscal year in December
1994. We also delayed the introduction of the 1995 Budget to formulate a structural reform
program, which would lay the foundation for achieving sustainable and broad-based growth in
income and employment. Instead, the Government introduced a "Supply Bill" in November 1994
to provide the necessary legal framework for Government operations to continue until March 1995.
This Bill also contained several revenue and expenditure measures designed to curtail the budget
deficit for 1995.
The Parliament passed the Budget for 1995 in March. The Budget is framed against the
backdrop of addressing the fundamental issues facing the economy and its long-term viability and
sustainability, while providing the framework for restructuring the economy to regain
competitiveness and generate sustainable growth in output and employment in the non-mining
sectors. The main pillars of the Government's structural reform program are:
*      restoring and maintaining a sound macroeconomic environment by sharply lowering
fiscal deficits and adjusting and maintaining relative prices to enhance Papua New
Guinea's international competitiveness;
*      implementing a series of structural reforms to enhance competitiveness and restore
business confidence, and thereby bring about a recovery in private investment,
especially in the non-mining sector and in agriculture;
*      creating the basis for sustainable and equitable development of renewable natural
resources through an effective and sustainable forestry policy;
*      increasing the provision of essential services, and upgrading public expenditure
management and budgeting procedures to enhance the efficiency and accountability
in the use of public resources, as well as by initiating new non-traditional
mechanisms to complement public service delivery systems;
*      substantially improving public service delivery through restructuring public
expenditures, and focusing the role of the Government largely on the provision of
basic services, especially in education and health, agricultural support services, and
infrastructure to support private sector-led growth; and
*      ensuring more equitable allocations of public funds across regions, by recognizing
the differences in per capita incomes and by increasing the level of transfers to the
relatively poor provinces to promote more even development, maximizing basic
services and infrastructure delivery in the country.
Allow me, Mr. President, to briefly outline key elements of Government strategy in each of
these areas and the policies to be pursued to achieve the program objectives in the coming months.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
Achieving and Maintaining Macroeconomic Stability
The primary focus of the Government's strategy is to help improve institutions and
implementation capacity at project, program, and policy levels, identify sustainable real sector
growth possibilities and address urgent environment, infrastructure, and human resource
development issues.
In 1995, macroeconomic policies are to remain targeted toward reducing inflation, after an
expected one-off increase due to the devaluation, as the cornerstone of a predictable economic
environment. Macroeconomic stability will be achieved and maintained through pursuit of vigorous
fiscal and monetary policies in support of a low inflation environment and a competitive exchange
rate.
The floating of the Kina and its depreciation of about 30 percent since August 1994,
combined with the impact of new revenue and expenditure measures introduced in the context of the
1995 Budget, should assist the Government in sharply reducing the fiscal deficit. The foreign
exchange auction, facilitated by the Bank of Papua New Guinea (BPNG) and participated in by all
authorized foreign exchange dealers, comprising the commercial banks, has been functioning
satisfactorily. However, to widen the market and improve the efficiency of the auction system, a
new screen-based system will be introduced shortly. The system will be based on continuous
posting of transactions and involve the commercial banks, and authorized foreign exchange dealers.
Monetary policy in recent years can be best characterized as accommodative and overly
reliant on borrowing from the BPNG. Since assuming office, the Government has taken important
steps to reverse these undesirable trends. The thrust of monetary policy will be to rely on the
Minimum Liquid Asset Ratio (MLAR) in the short run, achieving and maintaining real positive
interest rates in the medium to long term, and a tighter limit on the Government's overdraft facility
with the Central Bank. The BPNG will no longer provide guidelines with respect to interest rate
spreads on commercial bank lending.
These measures will be instrumental in restoring and maintaining the low inflation
environment that Papua New Guinea had for so long enjoyed, and to nurture the conditions for
increased domestic savings to finance our future investment needs. To this end the Government has
already taken significant steps, tightening the MLAR for commercial banks nearly threefold over the
past nine months, and agreeing to abide by tough new borrowing guidelines from the Central Bank.
Our financial position came under substantial pressure in the lead-up to and following the
floating of the Kina. Significant capital flight and a bunching of debt service payment obligations,
including repayment of reserve management swaps to commercial banks, depleted our foreign
exchange reserves. This led to a further deterioration in market confidence, and has almost dried up
the availability of trade credit. We recognize that the success of our efforts to promote private
sector development will also depend on the availability of trade credit, both external and domestic.
The Government has already initiated discussions with the commercial banks on the elements of the
program and is comrnitted to consult with the private sector in formulating corrective measures.
The World Bank and IMF's participation in the Government's program should therefore serve as an
important catalyst for the resumption of trade and term credit for economically justified ventures.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
The Government inherited a difficult fiscal situation in mid-1994 which was generating
enormous arrears. Stringent cash management and austerity measures for the public sector were
introduced in the last quarter of 1994, and as a result we managed to achieve a budget deficit of
only 2.3 percent of GDP for the year as a whole, inclusive of payment arrears to domestic suppliers
which were subsequently cleared by early 1995.  For the future we remain committed to
maintaining a prudent overall fiscal deficit while allowing substantial increase in development
spending and generating savings on recurrent expenditures through enhancing the productivity of the
public sector.
Fiscal Restructuriing and Improved Service Delivery
We strongly believe that in addition to improving fiscal performance in order to maintain a
stable macroeconomic environment, as part and parcel of the same exercise, an efficient public
sector must emerge if it is to successfully support Papua New Guinea's future development efforts.
This will require change in many areas, and will surely challenge our established ways of thinking
about the role of the public sector. In recognition of this we have already undertaken many steps to
achieve our goals of fiscal reform and a more responsive Government. These changes are
highlighted below.
The 1995 Budget which I presented to Parliament in March established the Government's
stance on economic and financial policies, while targeting an overall deficit of one percent of GDP.
The 1995 Budget incorporates several revenue measures with a total estimated yield of about 2
percent of GDP in 1995. These include: (a) subjecting all government departments, agencies, and
Statutory Authorities to import duties; (b) raising excise taxes on cigarettes and tobacco products by
20 percent, and introducing an excise tax on alcoholic spirits; (c) raising government fees and
charges in line with changes in the CPI; (d) a stamp duty of 5 percent on lottery tickets; and (e) re-
introducing fringe benefits in the assessment of personal income tax liability.
To achieve a more sustainable fiscal deficit, institutional mechanisms for budget preparation
and implementation, expenditure control and monitoring, as well as more effective and equitable
revenue collection, need to be strengthened.  In this regard, the Government has already
implemented a monthly expenditure commitment and payment management system which, in
addition to tightening overall control, matches expenditures to projected revenue, allowing early
adjustments. At the same time a complementary system of warrants and expenditure tracking
ensures that government expenditure commitments are made on the basis of actual receipts and
projected cashflows. Future revenue enhancement is to be mainly through consumption-based taxes
as well as increased taxation of log exports.
A symptom of the lax fiscal policy of recent years has been a serious shortfall in public
investment which has taken place in the face of increased current expenditures including those for
staff remuneration. An immediate outcome has been the severe degradation in public services and
facilities, particularly those relating to basic health and education as well as infrastructure. This
Government intends to reverse this trend immediately, as reflected in the near doubling of
development allocations in the 1995 Budget and through the reorientation of emphasis on the social
sectors and infrastructure as well as agriculture. To protect budget allocations for public investment
from being converted to and diverted by excessive recurrent spending, beginning in 1995 the



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
Government has legislated the separation of allocations for recurrent and development categories.
This is further reinforced by the practice of issuing separate expenditure warrants for each category
of expenditures.
Another pervasive feature resulting from past patterns of expenditure as described above,
has been the rapid increase in public employment to unsustainably high levels. As a result,
approximately one-fourth of total expenditures has been allocated to wages and salaries during the
past three years. This has further eroded the Government's ability to undertake capital investments
and to provide quality services, while generating a low productivity public sector work force. In
recognition of this we are undertaking several initiatives to turn the situation around.
We have reached an agreement with the World Bank on the 1995 public expenditure
program-which now reflects the agreed future priorities of investing in basic services and
infrastructure-and commit to doing the same for 1996. This includes targets for minimum shares
of actual expenditures for primary and secondary education and primary health and hospital services
(25 percent), and agriculture and renewable natural resources (excluding price stabilization fund),
transport and communications, and economic and infrastructure development (25 percent), in total
expenditures (recurrent and development), exclusive of "multi-functional" expenditures and public
debt charges.
A substantial portion of grant funds provided by several donors, mainly for technical
assistance and commodity price support are currently spent outside the budget framework and are
not subject to strict prioritization by the Government. Effective from the 1996 budget year the
Government intends to require all donors to channel their support through the budget, and to
provide adequate and timely information on their off-shore expenditures for consultants and suppliers
on behalf of Papua New Guinea. This should facilitate the move by 1997, towards a commitment-
based budgeting and accounting system, where expenditures would be recorded at the commitment
and implementation stage and not when actual payments are made. These steps are necessary for
improving planning and priority setting by the Government and we look forward to cooperation and
support from donors in the implementation of these measures.
We realize that the Government cannot be a limitless provider of free goods and services,
especially if it is to effectively carry out its functions of providing a basic minimum level of service
for all. We have increased the fees for a number of out-patient and many in-patient services. We
will monitor the situation regularly and we are committed to increasing cost-recovery over time.
Shortly, we intend to pilot a program in two urban centers, to allow hospitals to contract directly
with private pharmaceutical suppliers, with a view to reducing costs while maintaining quality. The
lessons from this experience will be utilized in formulating a national plan for the private supply of
drugs to hospitals and other health facilities. We also intend to promote an innovative approach to
the provision of health services.
In the area of tertiary education, fees for tuition, boarding and lodging, were recently
raised by 30 percent. We have also decided to end the previous system of totally free government
support for fees at this level and are in the process of designing a new system. The essential feature
of this new system, which we intend to introduce during the 1996 school year, is that it is available
on a non-cash basis only (based on voucher or a similar system), and will be offered only to those
with demonstrated need.



ANNEX 11
Page 6 of 18
To augment the public provision of essential services and infrastructure we have decided to
establish an autonomous body (a social and rural action unit) by the end of 1995, to be funded
through the budget and by donors, to finance the implementation of small-scale social, rural,
agricultural, and infrastructure development projects and programs, which meet established criteria.
These projects will be selected and monitored by the unit, but implemented by local communities
and districts, provincial health boards, farmers associations, other non-governmental organizations
and other non-profit organizations, including churches.
Government departments are to be systematically reviewed and restructured to ensure that
they are appropriately geared to providing for the emerging new priorities. As a first step a
restructuring of the Department of Finance and Planning is underway to better integrate the planning
and budgeting processes and functions, and to improve aid-coordination, and we expect that exercise
to be completed by early 1996. In parallel with this, the Cabinet has appointed a task force to
examine the broader issues of appropriate organization and staff deployment throughout the other
departments. That task force is to submit its recommendations to the Cabinet by September 1995
on a reorganization plan for government departments and agencies. This should include some
consolidation, and may build on other ongoing reforms such as that in fisheries where we have
established an autonomous authority to undertake most activities, leaving only the core policy
functions to a government department. Based on work in progress, we are preparing an action plan
to establish a firm timetable for regrouping, consolidation and restructuring of the following
government departments-Agriculture and Livestock Development, Health, Commission for Higher
Education with the Department of Education, and the Department of Energy with the Department of
Environment and Conservation. These changes should place us well on the way to significantly
achieving our objective of improving service delivery.
To reduce the public wage bill, the Government has embarked on a targeted retrenchment
program. Under the terms of this we will reduce the number of positions by 4,300 persons. More
than one-third of this will be achieved by elimination of funded, vacant positions from the payroll.
The remainder have been identified and should be removed from the payroll by the start of 1996.
For this purpose we have been negotiating a three-year retrenchment package with unions and hope
to reach an equitable agreement for all concerned, shortly. At the same time a separate exercise to
improve personnel and budget functions will identify unauthorized workers, to be removed from the
public payroll by the end of this year. Furthermore, the Government is committed to freezing
wages and salaries between April and December 1995, and will pursue a wage policy based on
market forces. This should assist the private sector in increasing their competitiveness. Finally, a
review of the entire benefits package, including retrenchment benefits, for the civil service, will
shortly be undertaken.
Another critical area where we are concentrating our efforts is that of project
implementation, for we recognize that without a very significant and rapid improvement in this area
our best efforts to promote the growth process are likely to be thwarted. To help us achieve
progress, we have taken significant steps to arrest and reverse the situation. As discussed earlier,
the budgetary allocation for development expenditures nearly doubled in 1995 to 5 percent of GDP,
and consistent increases in this area will bring this vital component of investment to 8 percent of
GDP in 1997. Given the challenging budgetary situation we will continue to face, we intend to tap
donor financing in a significant way for this purpose. A number of institutional changes have been
made in this regard, key among them, the establishment and use of special (imprest) accounts for
projects. These have already been instituted in a number of cases and we plan to expand that to full
coverage very shortly.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
While these should assist significantly in expediting local-cost financing aspects of projects,
the counterpart for foreign financing requires much more extensive use of special account facilities
available for most donor-funded projects and we are in the process of increasing their use. In other
areas, bottlenecks to the project implementation process have been identified and removed such as
those created by the Permanent Parliamentary Committee for Public Works which has had its role
abolished. We remain firmly committed to increasing the pace of project implementation on the
ground. In this regard, we view our efforts in reconstructing the Gazelle Peninsula (Rabaul) as a
benchmark for measuring our success.
Private Sector Promotion and Supply Response
To promote a timely, substantial and broad-based supply response, business confidence
needs to be nurtured through consistent implementation of sound macroeconomic and sectoral
policies. We are confident that a first step in this direction was the devaluation and subsequent
exchange rate reforms which should significantly improve Papua New Guinea's competitiveness in
the international market place. Our efforts to control and reduce inflation and real wages should
also help in this regard. We see the private sector as the long-term engine of growth for this
country both at the rural level and in terms of the nascent commercial/manufacturing sector.
In Papua New Guinea, the heart of the private sector resides in the villages among the hills
and the valleys as well as the islands where around 85 percent of the people make their homes. The
single most effective change that we have wrought for these mainly agricultural people is that
heralded by the exchange rate reforms. The devaluation and subsequent depreciation of the Kina
has significantly improved the prospects for their key cash crops in the short and medium term.
Looking to the future, the floating of the Kina should ensure a more conducive price environment.
We recognize, however, that there is much more that should be done for this sector in terms of
provision of extension services and other direct support and will be addressing this through our
efforts to make the public sector more responsive to private needs. Additionally, provision of
infrastructure will need to keep pace with agricultural expansion and we anticipate this. The
Government is committed to organizing and marshaling financial and technical support to this sector
as necessary to support its rapid growth.
Recognizing that private sector development in Papua New Guinea is constrained by
excessive control of trade and investment and entry barriers in many areas which effectively reduce
competition, the Government has decided to liberalize these areas in order to unleash competitive
market forces which should increase non-mining growth and employment.
In terms of trade policy, the Government has already taken several measures including the
near-total tariffication of items subject to non-tariff barriers, as well as reduction and removal of
import duties on a number of items. This is a preliminary step in the process of tariff reform which
we see ending with a low and uniform rate of duty on most goods, reflecting Papua New Guinea's
comparative advantage. We have therefore initiated a tariff study to build a road map for the
completion of tariff reform. At the same time, we are undertaking a review of the duty-drawback
scheme for exporters to ensure that it is geared to their needs.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
Barriers to entry in most activities are to be removed for both domestic and foreign
investors. The Government is committed to doing away with the list of "reserved activities" as
there is no evidence that it has resulted in any investment in those sectors. To that end, we have
removed restrictions on all activities in the construction and manufacturing sectors and will extend
this to the balance of "reserved activities" by early 1996.
We recognize the need for investment to be guided by clearly recognized rules and
transparent regulation. In keeping with this we have decided to develop and introduce a new
investment promotion policy for Papua New Guinea which reflects these general principles, with the
entire financial incentive framework reflected in the existing income tax and customs legislations.
To this end we will amend the Investment Promotion Act to limit the role of the Investment
Promotion Authority to promotion and provision of advisory services. We will refrain from
granting monopoly rights, special income tax and duty exemptions and any other concessions, with
the exception of those allowed under our income tax, customs acts and any existing legislation, to
any new projects. In order to further promote competition we will allow imports from alternative
sources to our traditional suppliers by maintaining agricultural and health quarantine requirements
for rice and other food imports in line with internationally acceptable standards.
Completing the agenda of leveling the playing-field for the private sector, we intend to
remove entry restrictions in post and telecommunications, commercial shipping, abattoirs, and
agricultural marketing and processing industries by amending various relevant legislation. The
Government will at the same time conclude its privatization program by completing redemption of
its preference shares in Ramu Sugar Holdings, and sale of its 50 percent equity interest in PNG
Forest Products Pty. Ltd. For the future, the Government does not intend to participate in any
further non-mining commercial activities, preferring to reserve these for the private sector.
In tandem with these developments we have decided to end price control for all but a few
goods (namely utilities and fuel). Therefore, the Government is in the process of removing price
control on beer, soft drinks, fresh fruits and vegetables, meat pies, theaters, rubber thongs, infant
food, stock feeds and plywood products, as well as prior price justification for bakeries, breweries,
soft drink manufacturing, and dairies. We remain committed to decontrolling the remaining items
by early 1996. The Government, however, intends to undertake a review before the end of
November 1995 of the possible impact of decontrolling prices for the above-mentioned products on
the urban and rural poor. It is our hope that these actions will improve the operating environment
for the private sector both by increasing its confidence in the Government, as well as through the
opening up of new opportunities for participation. The resultant increase in competition should be
a boon for consumers in Papua New Guinea who have too long had to bear the brunt of an
uncompetitive and restricted economic arena.
To improve the working of the various commodity corporations-responsible for providing
extension services and other support, as well as promotion, marketing and export of various cash
crops-we are undertaking a review of the effectiveness of these corporations. Our intention is to
refrain from establishing additional such bodies pending completion of this important review, but
rather to find ways to improve their ability to provide key services to their largely rural clients while
minimizing cost. In keeping with our objectives of improving economic efficiency we will also
undertake additional work soon to exaniine the necessary conditions for these corporations to assume
the overall responsibility for price support and price stabilization with funds generated from export
crop levies augmented as necessary by short-term borrowing from financial institutions-in order to



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
achieve financial autonomy. In this regard we intend to limit recurrent budget transfers to these
agencies to finance only the provision of research and extension services.
Government policy for the minerals sector is for the private sector to take the lead in
exploration and development. The Government has established a stable and sound regulatory and
fiscal regime so that mineral development takes place with due regard for enviromnental protection
and the social impact on local landowners and other affected groups and provides a fair distribution
of profits between the State and investors. Under this policy, the Government may undertake equity
participation. In practice, part of this equity is made available to landowners and provincial and
local authorities on a mix of concessional and market-related terms. This policy has served the
nation well and over the past twenty years several world class mineral deposits have been identified
and developed. The Government pays considerable attention to landowners and local government
concerns, resulting in project-specific agreements regarding the benefits to be received at the local
and provincial levels.
Earlier this year, a Mining and Petroleum Policy Review Group was appointed by the
Government to consider mineral sector policy. The group has undertaken a thoughtful analysis of a
broad range of policy issues including government equity holdings in minerals, the fiscal regime,
infrastructure development and the roles of central and provincial authorities. The recommendations
of the Review Group will be reflected in the Government's mining and petroleum policy.
The Government has announced its intention to privatize some of its mineral sector holdings
and has sold its Ok Tedi Mining Ltd (OTML) preference shares to Broken Hill Pty Ltd (BHP, is
the majority shareholder in OTML) and is in the process of divesting its ROADCO holding to Ok
Tedi Mining Ltd. It is also in the process of divesting 5.1 percent of its holding in the Porgera
Joint Venture to Porgera landowners. The Government has also announced its intention to float its
interest in the Mineral Resources Development Company (MRDC) by 1997.
To summarize our stance on the issue of the private sector, I want to state that the
Government wants free and active domestic and foreign participation in economic activities, free of
any "deal-making" or special privilege aspects, and subject to rules and regulation only as specified
by trade, tax and other relevant legislation (such as for health, safety and envirornmental matters).
In this regard, the Government no longer requires approval of any privately funded investment
projects. Furthermore, the Government will conclude its privatization prograrn as rapidly as
possible, and will refrain from any further direct or indirect participation in non-mining commercial
activities, limiting its role to that of regulator and provider of public infrastructure and services in
support of private sector development (these are discussed in greater detail below).
Increasing Public Investment in Support of Growth
As I have presented earlier, the deteriorating fiscal situation of the past several years
resulted in a severe neglect of public investment. This has led to skewed patterns of sectoral
expenditure policies, out of congruence with national development objectives. Consequently there is
much catching-up to do as the growth in population and demand for essential services has far out-
stripped the Government's efforts in this area. The key areas where the Government wishes to
focus its activities are, provision of essential social services such as basic health and education,



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
technical support services to agriculture to ensure its continued expansion both through new
investment and productivity increases from existing areas, and provision of transport and water
supply as basic necessities.
In health and education, the focus of Government policies will be to reverse the
deterioration of facilities due to the lack of maintenance while expanding the coverage of primary
health care and education facilities. Social and health indicators for Papua New Guinea have shown
a decline in all the important areas over the past decade and these policies will be geared to
reversing these trends. Given the realities of finite resources, we have decided to increase the scope
of cost recovery in several of these social service areas particularly those that have positive and high
rates of return associated with them. In keeping with this dictum, we have raised fees for higher
education by 30 percent and are preparing to introduce a voucher system as the primary instrument
to replace the present grant system. This will be awarded on the basis of demonstrated need.
In the area of health care, we have increased a broad range of charges for health and
curative services. On a pilot basis, we intend to contract out the supply of drugs and other medical
supplies to a select number of public health facilities to prepare ourselves for the eventual
privatization of this function. Increasing cost-recovery as a principle will be applied judiciously with
due regard for ability to pay.
In agriculture we are committed to expanding our support through the rejuvenation of
extension services, fostering scientific research and development of new production technologies as
well as improved seed varieties, and disseminating the same widely through the extension network.
At the same time, access to credit remains a serious impediment to agricultural expansion as in
many developing countries. This is particularly true for the plantation sector, an important part of
Papua New Guinea's cash crop agriculture where credit provision has nearly dried up. We
therefore intend to undertake specific research to investigate the proximate causes of the decline in
credit and to determine what corrective policy measures may be required in order to make credit
flow back to the sector.
A substantial portion of the envisaged increase in public investment is for infrastructure
provision, primarily in transport and water supply, two key areas for Papua New Guinea. Given
the ruggedness of much of the terrain and the remoteness of large parts of the country, the need to
invest in and develop a transport network is vital. Rural producers should benefit most from this as
it would bring market outlets within their reach and lower costs for producers and urban and other
consumers alike.  A  well-functioning road transport system  is therefore one goal of this
Government.
Finally, in recognition of both the great demands placed on our Government to provide
these basic services and infrastructure on different scales to a great many remote locations, and of
the need to provide such services in a timely and reasonable fashion, we have recently introduced a
new system of provincial and local governments which will ensure (i) Papua New Guinea's identity
as a sovereign united nation; (ii) equal opportunity and popular participation in government at all
levels; (iii) adequate provision of basic services including water, health, education, transportation,
communication, accommodation and social order through economic self-reliance; and (iv)
responsible citizenship through self-management, control and accountability. Under the new system
of government, the currently elected provincial governments will be abolished and replaced by
appointed provincial assemblies, which for each province would comprise the national parliament
members from the Province, and the president of each Local Government Council in the province.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
To ensure efficiency in the use of additional transfers under the new system, the Government will
establish, with support from the Bank, standards for quality and quantity of social, physical
infrastructure, and agricultural services which are to be delivered by district and local authorities.
To promote alternative modes of service delivery, we have decided to establish by early
1996 a special fund to target such activities. This fund will be independent of direct Government
control and will target small infrastructure and social service projects in the provinces subject to
established selection and viability criteria. We hope to attract dedicated governmental and non-
governmental groups and individuals who have solid projects to propose, and will support the
realization of their vision. In this way, the provision of traditionally publicly provided social
services will be augmented, particularly at the local level and through NGOs and churches. We are
undertaking this activity to accelerate the pace at which all people gain access to certain basic
services.
Promoting Equitable Growth and Benefit Sharing
It is the Government's intention that the allocation of opportunities and benefits generated by
this reform program be equitably distributed across the country. To the extent that certain regions
and/or groups are more disadvantaged than others, in terms of their income levels, or access to
basic health and education services specific policy actions will be required to address these issues.
In this regard, the Government intends to increase the level of transfers to the relatively
poorer provinces. At the same time, special programs such as the special fund I discussed above
should help to bridge the gap too. A greater effort will be made and priority placed on directing
infrastructure and basic health and education services to these areas thus alleviating poverty and
establishing the basis for equitable national development.
The recent legal and constitutional reform of the Organic Law will be instrumental in
addressing some of these concerns as it shares many of the same goals. Decentralization of
personnel and financial resources to the provinces and ultimately to the local level should produce
projects that are more responsive to local needs and that are implemented more rapidly and
appropriately.
Special budgetary and donor-financed programs that would inherently lead to increased job
and income creation such as programs to maintain and repair roads, sewage systems, etc. which
would, particularly during the difficult transitional period of adjustment reform, assist in improving
standards of living of retrenched workers and other vulnerable groups, will be emphasized along
with more traditional programs.
With priority attention to agriculture and the removal of trade and other control restrictions,
the macroeconomic and sector policies are being shaped to create the conditions for growth in
employment and productivity that should facilitate the absorption of new entrants to the labor force
and workers being retrenched by the public sector.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
Sustainable Development
Forestry and fisheries are two key sectors with significant potential for growth in the
medium-term. Their contribution to the economy, however, has been sub-optimal up to now.
Consequently the management of these sectors has suffered due to inappropriate interventions and
the lack of clear and transparent legal and regulatory frameworks. These issues are being addressed
and we now have two autonomous bodies, the Forest Authority and the Fisheries Authority,
respectively responsible for the management and supervision of these sectors.
The recent adoption of inspection and surveillance of log exports by an independent agent is
an important step in resource management as it has already contributed to an increase in exports and
government revenues, but more importantly, monitoring and management is strengthened. The
Government will shortly take further measures to ensure that areas of natural forests which are used
for log production are managed on a sustainable basis by: (a) for new projects, limiting the annual
harvest to one thirty-fifth of the net loggable area within each project; (b) for existing operating
projects, disallowing unused permitted cuts to be brought forward, not extending or expanding
existing operating projects unless they conform to the same sustainability requirements as placed on
new projects, inclusive of the extension or expansion; and using negotiation, project review, and
best endeavors to limit the aggregate annual harvest from currently existing concessions and
extensions to 1994 levels except in cases where there was no production in 1994 or where
production circumstances were exceptional in 1994, in which cases limits will be based on minimum
levels allowed by existing contracts; and (c) enforcing environmental protection standards set by the
Department of Environment and Conservation.
The Government is also committed to supporting the Forest Authority and upholding the
Forestry Act of 1991 and will refrain from introducing amendments to it which will in any way
reduce or qualify the present allocation of powers and responsibilities to the Board, or the Authority,
for the approval, issue or suspension, or modification, of timber licenses, permits or authorities.
The Forest Authority has recently adopted a forestry and operational code of conduct (the
Suva Code of Conduct) for implementation in the field and is currently finalizing Papua New
Guinea's own code of conduct to be consistent with this. Finally, the Government will disallow the
large scale clearance of forests for agriculture conversion or agro-forestry projects without a proper
and positive feasibility study of the land use to follow forest clearing.
In keeping with the Government's objectives of providing more equitable sharing of the
benefits of growth, a revised system of forestry taxation will be introduced which should
significantly increase the royalty share of resource owners. The new revenue system which will be
introduced in the context of the 1996 Budget, but with an effectiveness date of no later than January
1, 1996, comprises progressive marginal tax rates for Government revenue, and royalties to be
distributed to landowners. The Government is committed to supporting the Forest Authority in its
endeavors to safeguard and manage national forests.
In the fisheries sector, the recently established Fisheries Authority has formulated plans to
increase the rent-capture from the offshore fishing industry and at the same time improve its
surveillance and monitoring capacity to ensure sustainable exploitation of the resource. These are to
be contracted out to the private sector based on competitive bidding, and an incentive based payment
system is envisioned.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
Conclusion
We recognize, Mr. President, that despite our abundant natural resources, achieving
sustainable growth in the standard of living for the average Papua New Guinean cannot be taken as
given and requires effective management of our economy and a drastic change in the way the
Government conducts itself. We also recognize that the mineral and oil boom of the early 1990s
has come and gone and unless the Govemment and the economy make a permanent structural
adjustment to these changes, the ride to the future will be quite rough for the population at large.
The Government is prepared and fully committed to reform, and enjoys strong support from the
major stakeholders in the country. We are therefore confident as we meet the challenges of the
future head-on. With the technical and financial support of the World Bank, Papua New Guinea
will overcome its immediate financial difficulties, while putting in motion a long-lasting program of
economic and financial restructuring.
Yours sincerely,
Chris Haiveta, MP
Deputy Prime Minister
and Minister of Finance
Attachment



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
Papua New Guinea
Economic Recovery Program (ERP) Loan
Program Agenda                Actions Already Taken                Before Board            Before Second Tranche
Presentation                   Release
Omnibus Condition                                                                            Maintain and ensure effective
implementation of
macroeconomic, sectoral, and
implementation policiesl measures
introduced prior to as well as part
of the Board presentation
conditions.
A. Macroeconomic
Stabilization: Monetary.
Exchanee Rate and Financial
Sector Policies.
Objective:
To restore and maintain a sound The currency was devalued by 12 percent  Comply with the ceilings set  Establish and maintain a
macroeconomic environment by  in September 1994 and then a floating  on macroeconomic aggregates continuous market system for
sharply lowering the fiscal  system was introduced in October 1994.  for end-June 1995, including  determination of exchange rate.
deficit and adjusting relative                                    net domestic financing of the
prices to enhance PNG's      Lowered the fiscal deficit running at II   budget and net credit to the
international competitiveness.   percent (on annual basis) in July 1994 to   Government.
2.3 percent of GDP by December 1994
mainly through expenditure control.
Introduced a 1995 budget targeting an
overall fiscal deficit of I percent of GDP,
and a near doubling of development
expenditures to 5 percent of GDP.
Introduced market-determined interest
rates for government securities.
Removed Central Bank guidelines of
commercial banks interest rate spreads.
Tightened monetary policy mainly
through successive increases in the
Minimum Liquid Asset Ratio from 11
percent in October 1994 to 32 percent in
May 1995.



ANNEX 11
Page 15 of 18
Papua New Guinea
Economic Recovery Program (ERP) Loan
Program Agenda                Actions Already Taken                Before Board            Before Second Tranche
Presentation                   Release
B. Fiscal Management
Objective:
To enhance fiscal discipline and Introduced legislation to disallow the  Establish in the Department   Comply with expenditure targets
efficiency by setting clear  diversion of development allocations for   of Finance a monthly  as at end-October 1995 for the
budgetary rules, sharply     recurrent expenditure.               expenditure commitment and  Gazelle Restoration Authority's
reducing budget deficit, and                                      payment management system  emergency relief program.
generating public savings, as    Announced in March 1995 a freeze on the acceptable to the Bank.
well as faster drawdown of   wage and salary levels through the end of                       Complete review of the entire
donor funds, to invest in social  1995.                           Fully operationalize the   benefits package, including
and physical infrastructure, and                                  Gazelle Restoration Authority redundancy benefits, for the civil
restore prudent levels of public  Deferred the meeting of the Minimum  and meet its expenditure  service.
debt.                        Wage Board to 1996.                  targets for end-June 1995.
Identified with a view to removing from   Introduce legislation enabling
payroll a total of 4,300 positions  the implementing line
comprising 1,700 funded vacant positions  agencies to set up Kina
and 2,600 redundant staff through natural project accounts for donor-
attrition and consolidation and re-  funded projects and separate
structuring of departments.          departmental development
accounts for government
Announced plans for: (a) a review of the . funded projects and allocate
entire benefits package, including   funds quarterly in line with
retrenchment benefits, for the civil  cash flow projections to
service; and (b) the Temoval of      facilitate implementation of
unauthorized positions/staff from the  development projects.
payroll.
Raised excise taxes on cigarettes and
tobacco products by 20 percent, and
introduced an excise tax of K31L on
alcoholic spirits, effective November
1994.
Subjected all Government departments,
agencies and Statutory Authorities to
import duties at the prevailing rates,
effective November 1994.
Re-introduced the fringe benefits in the
assessment of personal income tax
liability effective November 1994.
Raised the ceiling on provincial sales tax
from 2 percent to 5 percent.
Increased Government fees and charges in
line with changes in the CPI, and
introduced a stamp duty of 5 percent on
retail price of lottery tickets.
Abolished the role of the Pernanent
Parliamentary Committee for Public
Works in the project ratification process.



ANNEX nf
Page 16 of 18
Papua New Guinea
Economic Recovery Program (ERP) Loan
Program Agenda                Actions Already Taken                Before Board            Before Second Tranche
Presentation                   Release
C. Private Sector Promotion
and SuDv1v Response
Objective:
(a) to create a conducive    Reduced import duties on a range of food  Secure Cabinet approval and  Replace in the context of 1996
environment for the develop-    and building products, including barra-   announce the amendment of  Budget quantitative restrictions
ment of the private sector for   couta fish, baked beans, UHT milk, and   the regulations for the  and import bans by tariff rates for
promotion of growth and      bridge and bridge sections.          Investment Promotion Act to  cement and beef/lamb (all cuts and
employment generation; and                                        remove restrictions on foreign packaging forms). Announce a
Initiated a study of the tariff and indirect  investment and participation  five-year time-table to lower rates
(b) to promote domestic and    taxation systems with a view to    in manufacturing and       on these products to
foreign trade and investment by  rationalizing the tariff structure in line    construction activities.  internationally acceptable levels.
promoting competition and    with Papua New Guinea's comparative
removing entry barriers and  advantage, streamlining the excise tax  Abolish in the context of the
other impediments to free and   system in line with fiscal and resource  1995 Budget export and
open economic participation.    allocation requirements, and      import licensing requirements
strengthening the implementation of the   (except those necessitated by
export duty drawback system.         health and security
considerations), and replace
Set up the National Economic         quantitative restrictions and
Development forum for development of   import bans by tariff rates for
the private sector.                  fresh fruits and vegetables,
canned meat and fish.
Announce a five-year
timetable to lower such rates
to intenationally acceptable
levels. Revise and announce
agricultural quarantine and
health requirements for rice
and other food imports to
meet intenationally
acceptable standards.
Price Controller to gazette
abolishing price justification
for the following industries-
bakeries, breweries, soft
drink manufacturing and
dairies: and decontrol
wholesale and retail prices
and margins for beer, soft
drinks, fresh fruits and
vegetables, meat pies,
theaters, rubber thongs, stock
feeds, and plywood products.



ANNEX 11
Page 17 of 18
Papua New Guinea
Economic Recovery Program (ERP) Loan
Program Agenda                Actions Already Taken                Beforc Board            Before Second Tranche
Presentation                   Release
D. Promoting Sustainable
DeveloDiment
Objective:
to promote long-term         Introduced in early 1995 surveillance and  Secure Cabinet approval for
sustainable private sector-led    monitoring of log exports, by an  the Forest Authority to adopt
growth in income and         independent contractor.              guidelines: (i) for new
employment.                                                       projects, limiting the annual
Provided the Forest Authority with an  harvest to one thirty-fifth of
adequate operating budget for 1995.  the net loggable area within
each project: (ii) for existing
Provided adequate funding for        operating projects,
surveillance contract for 1995.      disallowing unused permitted
cuts to be brought forward,
not extending or expanding
existing operating projects
unless they conform to the
same sustainability
requirements as placed on
new projects, inclusive of the
extension or expansion; and
using negotiation, project
review, and best endeavors to
limit the aggregate annual
harvest from currently
existing operating
concessions and extensions to
1994 levels. For projects with
exceptional circumstances in
1994 to allow minimum cuts
as specified in the permits;
and (iii) enforcing
environmental protection
standards set by the
Department of Environment
and Conservation.
Forest Authority to adopt a
forestry and operational code
of conduct acceptable to the
Bank (e.g. the Suva Code of
Conduct or, once completed,
PNG's Code of Logging
Practice) for implementation
in the field. Allocate and
maintain agreed upon budgets
and surveillance activities for
forcst rcsources.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Papua New Guinea
Economic Recovery Program (ERP) Loan
Program Agenda                Actions Already Taken                 Before Board            Beforc Second Tranche
Presentation                    Release
E. Public Service Delivery
Objective:
To substantially improve public  Introduced a revised Organic Law which   Revise the approved  Achieve the agreed targets for
service delivery through     calls for transfer of additional financial    budgetary allocations for  minimum shares of actual
restructuing public          resources and responsibility for the  1995 to reflect overall    expenditures for primary and
expenditures to focus on     provision of key Government functions    expenditure targets agreed    secondary education and primary
provision of basic services,  and services to district and local   with the World Bank,       health and hospital services (25
including education and health, governments; resource distribution  including targets for     percent), and agriculture and
agricultural support services,   arrangements are revised to take into  minimum shares of actual    renewable natural resources
and infrastructure.          account the level of income, resource  expenditures for primary and  (excluding price stabilization
endowment, and availability of services in secondary education and  fund), transport and
To ensure more equitable     each province.                        primary health and hospital   communications, and economic
allocations of public funds                                        services (25 percent), and  and infrastructure development
across regions, by recognizing   Increased fees for out-patient and many    agriculture and renewable    (25 percent), in total expenditures
the differences in per capita    in-patient health services.       natural resources (excluding   (recurrent and development),
mcomes and increasing the                                          price stabilization fund),  exclusive of "multi-functional"
level of transfers to the    Raised tertiary education fees by 30  transport and              expenditures and public debt
relatively poor provinces,   percent, for tuition, board and lodging.    communications, and  charges.
thereby promoting more even                                        economic and infrastructure
development.                 Set up a task force comprising Secretaries development (25 percent), in  Introduce a 1996 Budget
of Public Service and Finance and    total expenditures (recurrent  acceptable to the Bank, including:
Planning to identify government      and development), exclusive  (i) expenditure shares for primary
departments and agencies suitable for  of "multi-functional"     and secondary education, health
merging, abolition or privatization.  expenditures and public debt  and hospital services, agriculture,
charges.                   renewable natural resources,
Initiated the preparatory work to establish                      transport, communications,
an autonomous body (a social and rural                           economic development, and
action unit) to channel Government and                           infrastructure development, and
donor funding for the implementation of                          (ii) a public investment program
small-scale social, rural, agricultural, and                     for FY 1996 through FY 1998.
infrastructure development projects/pro-
grams by non-governmental bodies and                             The Government to: (i) establish
other local level organizations                                  standards for quality and quantity
of social, physical infrastructure,
and agricultural services which are
to be delivered by district and
local authorities; and (ii) submit to
the Bank a proposed action plan
for the implementation of the
provincial and local government
reform program, including staffing
and financial implications of the
said reform program.
Establish a system acceptable to
the Bank, in at least two urban
centcrs, to allow and enable
hospitals to contract directly with
private pharmaceutical suppliers.



ANNEX m
PAPUA NEW GUIEA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROCTRAM LOAN
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare the project:            10 months, October 1994 -
July 1995
(b)   Prepared by:                                  Government with World
Bank Assistance
(c)   First World Bank mission:                     October 1994
(d)   Appraisal mission departure:                 July 1995
(e)   Negotiations:                                August 1995
(f)    Planned date of effectiveness:               September 1995
(g)   List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:             PNG: SAL-February 27,
1995
The project was prepared by the following staff: Pirouz Hamidian-Rad, Task Manager;
Cyrus Talati; Peter Osei; Danielle Tronchet; and Nga Vinh Dao Lopez. Division Chief is
Ajay Chhibber; Director is Marianne Haug. Peer reviewer was Thelma Jones.



I



Annex IV
Page 1 of 2
Papua New Guinea
Status of Bank Group Opera dons
Statement of IBRD Loamn (as of July 20, 1995)
Amount (US$ million)               Last ARPP
Bank      IDA                       sunervision ratings
(Original principal   Undis-   Development  Implementation
Loan                  Fiscal                                                less cancellation)   bursed      Objectives     Progress
Number                 Year     Borrower    Purpose
Eighteen loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed                       319.58    113.77
Of which SECALS. SALS and Program Loans:
3218-  PNG            1990      PNG          Structural Adjustment         50.00
2742-  PNG            1987      PNG         Transport Improvement          42.82                  0.00           U       U
3051-  PNG            1989      PNG         Land Mobilization              19.15                  7.11           U       U
3154-  PNG            1990      PNG         Third Telecommunications       17.20                  6.47           S       S
3289-  PNG            1991      PNG          Special Interventions         17.61                  6.36           U       U
3290-  PNG            1991      PNG         Public Sector Training         20.80                 16.86           U       U
3485-  PNG            1992      PNG          Oro Smallholder Oil Palm Dev.  27.00                24.10           S       S
3537-  PNG            1993      PNG          Education Development         35.00                 28.19           S       U
3591-  PNG            1993      PNG          Population                      6.90                 6.32           S       U
3870-  PNG            1994      PNG          Petroleum Exploration and
Development TA               11.00                10.30           S       U
Total                                                                     517.06    113.77
of which has been repaid                                                 165.53      11.44
Total now held by Bank                                                    351.53    102.33
Amount sold          15.39
of which repaid     15.39
Total undisbureed                                                                               105.71



Annex IV
Page 2 of 2
Papua New Guinea
IFC and MIGA Program, FY92-95
Category                                  FY92        FY93       FY94       FY95
IFC approvals IUS$m)                        0.0        0.0       13.0        0.0
Sector (%J
Agribusiness                                                 100.0
Capital markets
Chemicals/fertilizers
Infrastructure
Manufacturing
Oil/mining
TOTAL                                     ..        ..       100.0
Investment instruments 1%)
Loans                                                         92.0
Equity                                                         8.0
Quasi-equity
TOTAL                                     ..        ..       100.0
MIGA guarantees JUS$M)                      0.0        0.0        0.0       50.0
MIGA commitments (US$m)                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Note: Includes projects approved but not yet signed.






I~~~~ ~ ~                      ! I.



