Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.16723
iMPLEMENTATION C'OMP LETION REPOR'T
INDEPENDENT STATE 01' PAPUIA NIEW GIJINEA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM LOAN
(LOAN 3934-PNG)
June 19. 1997
Papua New Guinea & Pacific Islands Division
Cotntry Department ITI
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVAI,ENTS
Currency Unit = Kina (K)
(As of July 31, 1995)
US$1.00 = KO.75
(As of May 3], 1997)
US$1.00 = KO.72
FISCAI, YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BPNG            Bank of Papua New Guinea
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
DOF             Department of Finance
DPLGA           Department of Provincial and Local Government Affairs
ERP             Economic Recovery Program
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
IMF             International Monetary Fund
MLAR            Minimum Liquid Asset Ratio
MRDC            Mineral Resource Development Corporation
NFA             National Forest Authority
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
NPO             National Planning Office
PIP             Public Investment Program
SDR             Special Drawing Rights
Vice President:          Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Director:                Marianne Haug, EA3
Division Chief:          Richard A. Calkins, EA3PI
Staff Member:            Pirou7z Hamidian-Rad, EA3PI



ii
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary
PART I - Program Implementation Assessment
A. Background and Project Origin ............................................1
B. Program  Objectives ........................................... 2
C. Achievement of Objectives ............................................ 2
D. Bank and Borrower Performance ........................................... 10
E. Sustainability ......................                                                                        1I
F. Assessment of the Outcome ..................... 12
G. Lessons Learned .....................                                                                      12
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ...........................                   ................................ 13
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits ...........................................................              14
Table 3:  Program  Timetable ............................................................ 15
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ................ 16
Table 5:  Key Economic Indicators for Program  Monitoring .................................... 17
Table 6:  Studies Included in Program  .......................................             .................... 18
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants with Conditions
for Second Tranche Release ...........................................................          19
Table 8:  Program  Financing ...........................................................                      24
Table 9:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .......................................             .................... 25
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions ...........................................................                26
APPENDICES
Appendix A: Borrower's Contribution to the ICR ...................................................... 27
Map IBRD 25561R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM LOAN
(Loan 3934-PNG)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic Recovery
Program (ERP) Loan (Ln. 3934-PNG) to Papua New Guinea (PNG) in the amount of
US$50 million. The loan, which was to support the first phase of the Government's economic
recovery program, was approved by the Board of Directors on August 29, 1995, and declared
effective on August 30, 1995; an initial disbursement of US$ 15 million (including retroactive
financing of US$10 million) was made on August 30, 1995.
The first tranche of US$25 million was made available upon effectiveness and was fully
disbursed by January 31, 1996. The second tranche of US$25 million, originally planned to be
reviewed in December 1995, was released only in January 1997. The loan was closed on January
15, 1997, as compared with the original closing date of September 30,1996. Financing for the
program was provided under (i) an ongoing International Monetary Fund stand-by arrangement
for SDR71.5 million, covering the period ending September 1997; and (ii) loans from the
Export-Import Bank of Japan in the amount of US$45 million, which is being disbursed in
parallel with the IMF standby arrangement, and from the Government of Australia in the amount
of US$50 million, which was fully disbursed in September 1995.
The ICR was prepared by Mojgan Jian (Consultant) and Cyrus Talati (Country
Economist) under the supervision of Pirouz Hamidian-Rad (Principal Economist) of the Papua
New Guinea and Pacific Islands Division. It was reviewed by Richard Calkins, Chief of the
Papua New Guinea and Pacific Islands Division, and Oscar de Bruyn Kops (Acting Operations
Advisor), and approved by Marianne Haug, Director, Country Department III, East Asia and
Pacific Region. The Borrower provided comments that are incorporated as Appendix A to the
ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's last supervision mission from
November 5-21, 1996. The ICR is based on material in the program file, including the
President's Report, the Letter of Development Policy, the supervision reports and other related
documents.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM LOAN
(Loan 3934-PNG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A.   Introduction
1.    The Government of Papua New Guinea's economic reform program was formulated in
response to an unprecedented economic and financial crisis experienced in 1994. The crisis was
the product of several years of inadequate macroeconomic policies and lack of progress on
structural reforms. Despite large increases in recurrent government spending, particularly
salaries and wages, the quality and coverage of essential public services deteriorated sharply in
the 1980s and early 1990s. In addition, large debt service payments and capital flight depleted
the country's international reserves. The Government, which took office in August 1994
responded to this crisis by: (i) devaluing the Kina and then floating it in October 1994;
(ii) bringing non-salary recurrent expenditures, and therefore provision of basic services, to a
virtual halt; and (iii) suspending capital expenditures. Although vital to the achievement of
stabilization objectives, these measures were insufficient by themselves to address the country's
structural problems.
2.    In November 1994, the Government approached the Bank and the International Monetary
Fund for financial assistance to support its reform program. The program was subsequently
broadened and refined in the context of the 1995 Budget, which was presented to and endorsed
by Parliament in March 1995. The Bank's Economic Recovery Program (ERP) loan was part of
a larger package of international financial support which included a stand-by arrangement with
the IMF for SDR71.5 million (still ongoing), a US$45 million loan from the Export-Import Bank
of Japan, disbursed in parallel to the IMF stand-by, and a US$50 million loan from the
Government of Australia, which was fully disbursed in September 1995.
B.    Program Objectives
3.    The core macroeconomic objective of the ERP loan was to support the stabilization
program, particularly with respect to bringing inflation under control and restoring growth. At
the structural level, the main objectives were to support the implementation of a broad array of
policy and institutional reforms that were designed to: (a) improve fiscal management and budget
implementation to enhance transparency in the use and efficiency of public resources;
(b) promote private sector development and engender a supply response through an improved
incentive framework that sought to increase competition and remove entry barriers and other
impediments to free and open economic participation by liberalizing foreign and domestic
investment and trade; (c) promote sustainable development and growth in the forestry sector in
order to increase incomes and employment; and, (d) substantially improve public service



ii
delivery through restructuring public expenditures to focus on provision of basic services,
including education, health, agricultural support services and infrastructure.
4.   It was envisioned that the ERP loan would kick start the long-delayed process of reform
in PNG and would be followed by subsequent policy based and sector adjustment operations as
necessary. The ERP was prepared under an air of considerable crisis, even for an adjustment
operation, as the new coalition Government was anxious to move forward while it still held the
momentum of consensus. Consequently the project was brought to the Board in less than two
months following the appraisal mission. The operation was designed with two tranches, the first
to be available upon effectiveness and the second after completion of the agreed set of reforms.
C.   Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Following a promising start, implementation progress began to suffer due to a variety of
reasons. A prime factor was delays and difficulties in implementation of the decentralization
reforms, which were the outcome of a political process that the Government was then obliged to
undertake in tandem with the key structural reforms that formed the core of the recovery agenda.
In addition, the program suffered due to: (a) significant delays in allocating funds to both
government agencies and to those NGOs and community-based organizations providing service
delivery at the provincial and local levels; (b) weakening Government commitment to sustainable
forestry which resulted in legislative action that compromised the integrity and independence of
the National Forestry Board; and (c) attempts to reverse reforms in the private sector, particularly
the tariff rationalization program.
6.    Due to the above factors, the Bank notified the Government on April 17, 1996, of its
intention to cancel the undisbursed balance of the loan within 90 days unless specific actions
were taken to bring the reform program back on track in order to ensure that it met its
development objectives. At the end of the 90-day period, however, based on the progress made
at that time, the Bank decided not to cancel the loan. Instead it gave the Government additional
time to complete the remaining outstanding actions. Almost immediately, however, program
implementation was deferred once again as the Government introduced in Parliament
(a) amendments to the Forestry Act; and (b) a mini-budget for 1996 which reversed earlier
reforms to the tariff system, the indirect tax regime and private sector development. At the same
time, the Government's stand-by arrangement with the IMF went off track as no agreement could
be reached on the 1996 financial program.
7.    Based on significant actions taken to put the program back on track before the original
closing date of September 30, 1996, and the agreement reached on an action plan to meet the
development objectives of the reform program, the Bank agreed to extend the loan closing date
to December 31, 1996 and then to January 15, 1997. This provided the Government sufficient
time to complete the remaining outstanding actions for the release of the second tranche on
January 13, 1997, following the Executive Board's approval of three waivers for non compliance
with agreed policy conditions.



iii
8.    Achievement of Objectives. Despite significant delays in implementing the reforms
supported by the ERP loan, the outcome of the operation was broadly satisfactory and the
objectives of the loan were achieved. This assessment is based on the following:
(a)  Macroeconomic stabilization objectives were fully achieved. In 1995, significant strides
were made in achieving macroeconomic stability. The decline in GDP was limited to 2.9 percent
and the external current account was stronger than anticipated; however, the program
underestimated the persistence of inflation which was marginally lower at 17.3 percent.
Macroeconomic stability was further consolidated in 1996, with GDP registering a 2.2 percent
increase, well above the program target of 1.4 percent, and a small budgetary surplus, equivalent
to 0.6 percent of GDP, was realized for the year as compared with a planned deficit of 1 percent
of GDP. The improvement in the external position exceeded program goals, with gross official
reserves reaching US$549 million by year end (5.6 months of non-mineral imports). Consumer
inflation eased sharply to 11.6 percent, albeit still substantially higher than the target of 5.9
percent. The competitive gains achieved since the devaluation and subsequent floating of the
Kina in late 1994 have been largely preserved as the real effective exchange rate has remained
substantially depreciated vis-a-vis the pre-devaluation level.
(b)  Fiscal management, while it remains weak, has shown considerable improvement over the
course of implementation. The budget deficit was held to 0.5 percent of GDP in 1995 and a
small surplus equivalent to 0.6 percent of GDP was generated in 1996-an extraordinary
improvement over mid- 1994 when the deficit was estimated at over 11 percent of GDP. New
rules for setting and managing the budget were instrumental in this regard. At the same time the
Government's system of cash management has been extensively reviewed and revised along with
other improvements in internal processes, which have together improved the overall outlook for
fiscal management. Although too early to bear significant fruit, these measures should go a long
way towards improving the overall situation with regard to fiscal management, especially with
regard to translating resource allocation in the Budget to actual resources on the ground. At the
same time, considerable experience was gained into project implementation and the constraints
that it faces in PNG in the context of the disaster rehabilitation efforts in the Gazelle peninsula.
Based on these lessons, many changes were made to the institutional framework governing
public projects in PNG, including on the Bank side. As a result project performance has
improved both in the Gazelle area and for some other Bank projects. Over time these changes
should translate across the board to all donor funded projects and result in improved
implementation performance.
(c)  Private sector development objectives were generally met and a moderate supply response
was generated. The economy was significantly opened to competitive forces and private sector
confidence substantially restored, resulting in a recovery of non-mining growth. This was done
through a program of policies which sought to fundamentally reshape the regulatory and
incentive framework governing investment, trade policy and price setting. Under a far reaching
trade reform program, non-tariff barriers were removed on a range of important staple food items
as well as cement, and replaced with prohibitive tariffs; a 5-year timetable was announced for the
reduction of this rate to internationally acceptable levels. Price controls were partially abolished
and barriers to private investment were relaxed substantially by easing the related legal and



iv
regulatory framework, and the Government's privatization program was accelerated.
Maintenance of a tight wage policy helped lower real wages by about 12 percent, thereby
improving PNG's international competitiveness.
(d)   Sustainable development was promoted through improved policies for forest resource
management and greater equity in allocation of resource rents. This was achieved by enacting
and implementing a logging code of conduct; introducing a sustainable cut cycle of 35 years as
the basis for harvesting; increasing the landowner share of cash royalties, payable on the basis of
a progressive rate schedule, while raising Government revenue by introducing a progressive tax
rate; strengthening the National Forestry Board; and implementing a policy framework for
control and monitoring of forestry funded agricultural projects. As a result, no new forestry
permits were granted, Government tax receipts were increased, and resource-owners received
higher royalties.
(e)   Service delivery was improved through a restructuring of public expenditures with
emphasis on the provision of basic services, and increasing public investment. A partnership
between the Government and civil society was forged in this context, and finding of NGO and
church groups to provide basic services, though intermittent, was increased. Implementation of
the Provincial and Local Level Government Reform Program experienced substantial difficulty.
Reasonable progress was made in the second half of 1996 but much remains to be done; a
detailed action plan, endorsed by all Provincial Administrators was announced and easily
monitorable standards for quality and quantity of key services were introduced for provincial and
local-level governments.
9.    Bank and Borrower Performance. The Bank's performance in preparation and
supervision was satisfactory. In view of the Borrower's track record under the previous
adjustment operation, substantial lead time was allowed for the Government to demonstrate its
commitment by establishing a track record in terms of implementing the substantial up-front
actions, as well as to allow stakeholder participation in the design and implementation of the
reform program. The operation was intensively supervised which proved to be important in
deepening the dialogue with the various stakeholders and policy makers to overcome the adverse
influence of vested interest groups in seeing several important conditions through, especially the
forestry revenue system and the tariff reform program. The program design, however, could
have benefited from more explicitly recognizing the Borrower's limited institutional capacity to
manage and execute the program. This could have eliminated some of the implementation
delays, especially in light of the lessons learned from the first adjustment operation, where the
complexity of loan design was highlighted as a key factor in the implementation performance.
10.   Following the initial intensive implementation period, the borrower's performance
became generally unsatisfactory and remained so until shortly before the original loan closing
date. This caused a year's delay in the release of the second tranche. Weak project management,
irregular flow of funds for development expenditures, ineffective monitoring and implementation
of provincial government budgets, and insufficient allocation of funds to key priority areas led to
implementation delays and the near total derailment of the program. Compliance with legal
covenants also met with delays, resulting in the need for three minor waivers for non-compliance



v
with tranche release conditions and an extension of the closing date. Despite the Government's
fulfillment of the majority of program conditions, combined with satisfactory macroeconomic
performance during most of the program period, sustainability of the program remains fragile.
D.    Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned
11.   In spite of the difficulties experienced during implementation, the operation substantially
achieved its development objectives relating to those of the Government's reform program. The
reform measures undertaken to date have had visible impact. The program supported: economic
stabilization, as evidenced by price and exchange rate stability and a comfortable reserve level;
the restoraLion of private sector investment and growth; expansion of provision of essential
services; and establishment of an appropriate policy environment for the forestry sector. Further
measures are needed, however, to deepen the reforms: real wages need to decline further and
labor intensive activities promoted to increase employment and ease the worsening law and order
problems; transparency of the incentive framework needs to be enhanced; investment in the non-
mining sector needs to increase; and civil service efficiency needs to improve. The Provincial
Reforms are a long term challenge, but a reasonable start has been made.
12.   Sustainability. Notwithstanding the satisfactory progress made in achieving
the key objectives of the program, the prospects for sustainability of the program remain
uncertain. Many of the steps taken to liberalize the economy and improve its competitiveness-
deregulating prices, establishing a market determined exchange rate system, restoring a low
inflation environment, and tariff reform-will directly contribute to program sustainability.
Improved partnership between the Government and civil society will also enhance program
sustainability, as has already been demonstrated. Additionally, strengthening the institutions
responsible for implementing reforms should significantly improve program sustainability.
13.   The sustainability of the reform effort could be greatly compromised should future
governments reverse the reforms implemented under the program, particularly in forestry and the
tariff and taxation reforms, where vested interest groups continue to exert considerable pressure
on the Government and civil service. In view of PNG's track record, particularly with respect to
the previous adjustment operation, this risk is perceived to be high. As a result sustainability is
judged to be uncertain.
14.   Key Lessons Learned. Key lessons learned which should be incorporated into a possible
follow-up operation to support the Government's continuing reform effort include: (i) more
vigorous consensus building is required during the design stage of the reform program to ensure
its longer term sustainability. Even though the ERP loan was designed in response to an
economic and financial crisis, more attention should have been paid to reaching consensus
among various stakeholders, particularly civil society; (ii) given the limited capacity of the civil
service, more time should have been allowed for the bureaucracy to undertake and review the
findings of the required studies and agree on the necessary course of action; (iii) firmness and
consistency of position, backed by solid analyses, a united donor stand, and support by a
majority of beneficiaries, were critical factors in overcoming a wavering of Government
commitment to implement politically difficult policy reforms. This was evident on several



vi
occasions during implementation, and was critical in bringing the program back on track and
improving the Borrower's performance; and (iv) strong and sustained Government commitment
is essential for successful program implementation; (The weak ownership of the program
experienced throughout the life of the ERP contributed heavily to implementation delays.)
15.   As envisaged in the Country Assistance Strategy and the Letter of Development Policy,
the ERP loan was to be complemented by another policy-based operation to support the second
phase of the Government's reform program. The proposed operation will aim at consolidating
and deepening the reforms initiated since 1994, extending these to the financial sector and
fisheries, with a view to promoting employment creation and reducing poverty while enhancing
sustainability of the overall long term reform effort.



-1-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM LOAN
(Ln. 3934-PNG)
PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Background & Project Origin
1.    Papua New Guinea's (PNG) economy experienced an unprecedented financial crisis in
1994, as a result of several years of inadequate macroeconomic policies and lack of progress on
structural reforms. A sharp expansion of the public sector did not translate into more and better
provision of basic services or increased public investment. In fact, the quality and coverage of
essential public services, including provision of primary health and education, agricultural
extension, road maintenance and basic infrastructure, and maintenance of law and order,
deteriorated.
2.    Excessive public spending which generated concomitant higher debt service payments
and capital flight depleted international reserves, despite large investments in mining, petroleum,
and logging operations. Private investment in the non-mining sector stagnated because of an
overvalued exchange rate, an over-regulated investment regime, and low complementary public
investment in social and physical infrastructure. There was very little change in the agriculture
sector in which 85 percent of the population made its livelihood. Consequently, pressure
mounted for logging of new forest areas to increase export receipts and tax revenues.
3.    An earlier Government in 1992, reversed several major policy measures which were
implemented previously under the 1989 Bank funded structural adjustment loan (which was
aimed at achieving three main objectives-financial stabilization, improvement of public
resource management, and promotion of the private non-mining sector). This Government lost
macroeconomic control, and saw an acceleration in the long term deterioration of public service
delivery and forest degradation. A major oil and mineral-fueled boom, however, allowed the
Government to delay addressing these issues, but by 1993, PNG was facing a decline in its
external earnings. A short-term financial crisis emerged in 1994 super-imposed on a longer-term
crisis of governance.
4.   In August 1994, a new Government responded to the financial crisis by: (a) devaluing the
Kina and then floating it on October 10, 1994; (b) curtailing non-salary current expenditures to a
bare minimum; (c) suspending capital expenditures; (d) tightening revenue collection; and (e)
expediting asset sales. These measures, although vital to economic stabilization, were
insufficient by themselves to address the country's sever structural problems. Meanwhile, a
number of natural disasters destroyed economic infrastructure and led to loss of life. Shortly
thereafter, the Government requested financial support from the Bank and the Fund for a reform
program that was presented to Parliament in March 1995, along with the Budget. The ERP loan
being evaluated here formed the core of the Bank's support to the Government's attempt to
address the financial and economic crisis.



-2-
B.   Program Objectives
5.    The ERP loan was the first in a series of policy based operations envisaged in the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for FY96-97. It was to be the first step in resumption of the
long stalled process of structural reform in PNG. The main reason that this process was at a halt
was that governments in PNG have a very short tenure, the average being 18 months over the
past twenty years. Paradoxically this is an outcome of a strong democratic tradition.
Consequently, successive governments have a very short term policy horizon which generates a
low level of commitment to long term development. The outcomes have been socially and
economically disastrous with virtually no real progress in advancing opportunities for the
majority of the population in spite of PNG's abundance of natural resources. At the time that
this current reform exercise was undertaken the new Government in PNG had a strong
commitment to reverse the ongoing decline in living standards and increase long term economic
opportunities by opening up the non-mineral economy. The severe economic crisis that gripped
the country was an important catalyst driving the consensus within the Government.
Furthermore, because of adoption of new rules in Parliament this government expected to have
slightly longer tenure than the average, until the planned general elections in 1997. Against this
backdrop, the Bank mobilized its resources to prepare this operation and brought it to the
Executive Board a scant two months following appraisal.
6.    The main objectives of the reform program supported by the ERP loan were to:
(a) restore and maintain a stable economic environment by sharply lowering fiscal deficits and
adjusting relative prices, and improving fiscal management, including public expenditure
management and budgeting procedures, to enhance the efficiency and accountability in the use of
public resources; (b) implement a broad array of policy and institutional reforms to enhance
PNG's competitiveness and restore business confidence, and thus bring about a recovery in
private investment, especially in the non-mining sectors; (c) move commercial exploitation and
development of the forestry sector onto a sustainable basis, while improving the equity situation
of local communities and enhancing government revenues; (d) substantially improve public
service delivery through a fundamental restructuring of public expenditures and complementing
traditional service delivery mechanisms with new private sector based agents, and increase public
investment; and (e) support and guide the emergency relief program for Rabaul and in the
process overhaul project drawdown procedures, in order to improve overall project and program
implementation in PNG.
C.   Achievement of Objectives
7.    Although the five key objectives of the program were largely met, progress was uneven
and much slower than anticipated. The question of sustainability, in many areas of the program,
remains fraught with uncertainty.
8.    Macroeconomic Stability. The macroeconomic stabilization objectives of the program
have been realized. In particular, the program targets for stabilizing output were met-in 1995
GDP declined only 2.9 percent, compared to the estimate of a 3 percent decline, and in 1996
GDP growth was 2.2 percent exceeding the program goal of 1.4 percent mainly due to better than
expected performance of the mineral sector.



-3-
9.   In spite of making good progress in addressing inflation, its persistence signals one area
where the program underestimated the difficulty associated with this task, especially of balancing
the stabilization and growth objectives. Consequently, in 1995 inflation was held to 17.3 percent
compared to the program target of 17.5, but despite declining significantly in 1996 to
11.6 percent (on an annual average basis), this exceeded the program objective of 5.9 percent.
Nevertheless, recent evidence from the first quarter of 1997 suggests that inflation continues to
decline. The Government's pursual of a tight monetary policy was instrumental in curbing
inflation, but the pass-through effects of the devaluation combined with special attributes of
markets in PNG and the relatively high import content in the consumer basket make this difficult
at best.
10.   Other objectives such as the establishment and improvement of a market-determined
exchange rate system have been fully implemented. The mechanisms for these continue to be
refined to respond to PNG's needs-mainly relating to that of a relatively small market. The real
depreciation achieved through the devaluation of 1994 has been largely maintained, improving
PNG's competitiveness and this is reflected in the agricultural sectors response in 1996, in terms
of output (which increased 6 percent) and exports which registered an increase of 15 percent.
Import compression envisaged under the program has exceeded targets although this cannot be
entirely attributed to the devaluation-in part this was due to the slower pace of the public
investment program. As a result the balance of payments improved and the precarious reserve
position was strengthened considerably-from less than one month of non-mineral imports at
end-1994 to 5.6 months of non-mineral import cover, or US$549 million by end-1996.
11.   The major fiscal objective of containing the budget deficit has certainly been met in both
1995 and 1996 when the program targets were met comfortably. The overall budget deficit was
held to -0.5 percent of GDP in 1995 and a surplus of 0.6 percent of GDP was generated in 1996.
These were achieved through pursuit of tight fiscal and monetary policies which were designed
to significantly reduce dependence on domestic bank financing and commercial borrowing as
well as through a contraction in domestic expenditures. To facilitate attainment of these targets,
significant cuts were made in non-interest recurrent expenditures-mainly wages and salaries
(equivalent to about 2 percent of GDP), goods and services (about 1 percent of GDP), and
transfers and subsidies (more than 2 percent of GDP).
12.   The tight monetary policies discussed above were implemented mainly through a binding
Minimum Liquid Asset Ratio (MLAR) for the commercial banks in the short run. Other policies
included moving to market determined interest rates, and a tighter limit on Government's
overdraft facility with the Central Bank-the Bank of Papua New Guinea (BPNG-while
providing adequate credit expansion to the private sector. The tight monetary policy did,
however, lead to a rise in interest rates which in turn led to a contraction of credit to the private
sector and eroded somewhat PNG's exchange rate competitiveness. On balance, most of these
objectives have been largely met and this is borne out by the resumption of growth in 1996.
13.   Fiscal Management. The Government's overall achievements with respect to fiscal
management and expenditure control are judged satisfactory, despite numerous delays. This has,
however, proven to be one of the more problematic areas of the program to implement. On the
revenue side, the program aimed to strengthen tax collection through more comprehensive tax
audits, particularly for mining and logging companies, and eventually expand the tax base



-4-
through a broad-based consumption tax. Vigorous implementation of the former has yielded
positive results in the form of achievement of the revenue targets of the program. Good progress
has also been made with respect to the implementation of the broad-based consumption tax and
this is on-track to be introduced in 1998.
14.   The expenditure objectives of the reform program focused on reducing current spending,
substantially increasing public investment in social and physical infrastructure and a re-allocation
of resources to priority programs and projects. The reduction in current expenditures was to be
achieved through implementation of both expenditure control mechanisms as well as policies to
contain and reduce the size and cost of the public service.
15.   Following the emergence of problems involving expenditure overruns and unbudgeted
arrears in 1995, (when wage and salary payments exceeding the approved allocations), and
missed expenditure targets for the Gazelle Restoration Authority's emergency relief program, the
Government redoubled its efforts and undertook a more comprehensive fiscal restructuring
exercise. This aimed to substantially improve expenditure controls through timely processing
and issuing of warrants, improved release of funds, reconciliation of bank accounts, better cash
management, and strengthened coordination among different divisions within the Department of
Finance (DOF).
16.   A major reason for the ongoing implementation difficulties can be attributed to
Government's sudden decision in October 1995 to restructure the Department of Finance and
Planning into two separate agencies, the Department of Finance and the National Planning Office
(NPO)-only one month before planned presentation of the Budget to Parliament. The
disruptive effects of this event and the subsequent reshuffling of staff cannot be overstated.
These were not confined only to the implementation of the ERP but have also had longer term
adverse consequences on the development planning and implementation capacity in PNG.
17.   An earlier decision to undertake a sweeping decentralization reform for provincial and
local level governments also compromised program effectiveness and stretched the already thin
implementation capacity. These reforms aimed to transfer key functions to provincial and local
governments-including health, education, and road maintenance-along with an accompanying
transfer of personnel from the center. The implementation timetable for this exercise was
optimistic, perhaps due to political pressures, and as a result expectations were created for higher
resources which were totally out of keeping with overall resource availability. Primary
responsibility for this undertaking was initially vested with the NPO and subsequently with the
Department of Provincial and Local Government Affairs (DPLGA).
18.   The combined effects of these poorly timed and largely unplanned initiatives was to place
a considerable burden on the bureaucracy while diminishing its institutional capacity. This
manifested itself in a variety of ways-an inability to deliver a draft 1996 budget to Parliament,
inadequate and erratic funding of functions transferred to the provincial and local levels amidst
an ongoing paralysis within Government departments as to their role in these processes. As a
result, of the close supervision of the ERP loan, these issues were identified early and after much
discussion with the Government resulted in positive actions. The implementation capacity of the
DOF and the National Planning Office (NPO) were enhanced and the interaction and
coordination between DOF, the NPO and the DPLGA, was significantly increased. As a result of



-5-
these efforts, the overall release of funds to provincial governments as well as for development
expenditures improved somewhat.
19.   However, inconsistencies between Government actions and its plan surfaced when, in the
context of the initial 1996 budget, it awarded a wage and salary increase totaling some 10 percent
(compared with the 4 percent announced in the November 1995 Budget speech). These
difficulties, and others relating to slower than anticipated reduction in public service employees
were discussed and resolved at some length with the Government. As a result the increase in the
wage bill for 1996 is estimated at 8-9 percent and 5 percent for 1997.
20.   Private Sector Development and Supply Response. Notwithstanding some delays, the
Government's overall achievements towards this objective are judged satisfactory. This
ambitious element of the reform program sought to substantially overhaul the policy and
regulatory framework governing private sector activity. To this end the program focused on
investment deregulation, trade liberalization and price decontrol. Another critical element in
each of these inter-linked areas was a wage policy designed to improve PNG's international
competitiveness and increase labor force flexibility. The Government has made a promising start
in terms of increasing business confidence but this has been tempered by the uneven
implementation of some components of the program, as well as the recent-March 1997-civil
disturbances and ensuing constitutional difficulties which led the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime
Minster and Minister for Finance and Defense Minister to step down temporarily.
21.  Improvements in the investment regime were pursued through the removal of most entry
barriers for foreign and domestic investors. In particular, foreign investment restrictions in
manufacturing and construction were removed. The Government achieved notable success in its
institutional reform of the regulatory and legal system overseeing foreign and domestic
investment and these actions have had a positive impact on the investment growth rate in both
1995 and 1996-however, the non-mining sector is at this stage only a very small contributor to
overall investment. With the assistance of the Bank, the operations of the regulatory and legal
framework administering foreign and domestic investments are being streamlined further with a
view to reducing the costs of doing business in PNG. The importance of the latter cannot be
overemphasized because it will require considerable investment of effort and a sea-change in
attitude about the potential role of the private sector in promoting growth and employment.
22.   The thrust of the trade policy reforms was to eliminate export and import licensing
requirements and to rationalize the tariff structure, especially with regard to some food items and
important inputs for construction and manufacturing. Quantitative restrictions and import bans
were to be replaced by prohibitive rates for cement, beef and lamb, fresh fruits and vegetables,
and canned fish, with all other non-tariff barriers on imports eliminated, and duty rates lowered
to internationally acceptable levels over a five-year time table. Furthermore, with support from
the Bank and the IMF, a study to examine tariff and indirect taxation reform was initiated.
23.   Effective November 22, 1995, the Government replaced the quantitative restrictions on
importation of beef, lamb and cement with a tariff rate of 40 percent. The replacement of the
import ban on cement, however, was subsequently delayed to January 1996 due to: (a) legal
issues which arose with the domestic monopoly producer, and (b) a cabinet approved increase in
the duty on cement imports from 40 percent to 150 percent, which was eventually withdrawn as



-6-
it was in direct contravention with the program's objectives. The schedule of tariff reduction for
cement, beef, and lamb over a five-year time frame was announced late in 1996.
24.   Price decontrol was a sensitive issue in PNG as in most countries and the Government
showed considerable courage in addressing this issue without undue delay. Prior to the program
nearly half of the goods in the basket comprising the Consumer Price Index were subject to some
form of price control. As a result of the measures implemented, about one-third of these were
deregulated.
25.   The Government has made good progress in pursuing a wage setting policy based on
market forces especially considering the long-entrenched regulatory traditions surrounding this
important sector. By bringing public sector wages in line with productivity-by holding the line
on wage increases-devaluing the Kina, and relaxing other regulatory impediments in the labor
market, the competitiveness of the non-mining sector was expected to improve. It is estimated
that real wages have declined by about 12 percent since 1994, an important factor in terms of
employment generation.
26.   Finally, a privatization program was initiated in the context of the 1995 Budget with the
intention to complete the redemption of Government's preferred shares in Ramu Sugar Holdings,
the sale of its 50 percent equity interest in PNG Forest Products Pty. Ltd., the sale of its interest
in RoadCo, and the privatization of the Mineral Resources Development Company (MRDC)
through a public float by 1997. This ambitious privatization agenda has been largely
accomplished along with some still ongoing corporatizations which should go a long way
towards upholding private sector confidence. The privatization of MRDC, through float of a new
company-Orogen-was successfully accomplished, however, issues with regard to utilization
of some of the proceeds from the float are still outstanding.
27. Promoting Sustainable Development. The overall objectives in this vital area of the
program were met but very nearly at the cost of the relationship between the Bank and the
Government. Certainly this was the main reason for the almost year long delay in release of the
second tranche. The main objectives of the forestry policies were to ensure sustainability in
resource exploitation, greater equity in the allocation of resource rents and increased revenues.
These were to be achieved through: (a) a transparent licensing system and protecting the
independence of the institutions managing forest resources; (b) adoption of a sustainable cut
cycle of some 35 years for logging operations; (c) adoption and enactment of a technical code of
logging conduct to govern logging in PNG; (d) progressive taxation of log exports which would
over the long run allow Government to capture a larger share of resource rents; and (e) a new
progressive royalty system which would significantly increase the rents accruing to forest
resource owners, mainly local communities.
28.   Following some initial delays, the sustainable cut cycle policy was adopted as was the
logging code of practice. Criteria for the formation of sustainable forestry projects requiring a
35-year cut cycle based on the net loggable area under the permit was introduced into regulation
and training was provided for the officers responsible for implementing it. In the context of the
1996 Budget the Government also announced and implemented the progressive tax rate schedule
for log exports, effective January 1, 1996. Reforms in the other areas, including a cash royalty



-7-
system based on progressive rates, which were also introduced through that same budget were
not implemented as announced and formed the core of the difficulties with the Bank in this area.
29.   Repeated attempts were made in February 1996 to amend the Forestry Act of 1991 in a
way that would have undermined the independence of the Forestry Board. Furthermore funding
for the National Forest Authority (NFA) was inadequate and its implementation remained erratic.
There were also delays in: (a) the implementation of the new royalty system for landowners;
(b) securing funding for the surveillance operation for 1996; and (c) the adoption and
implementation of the forestry revenue system for existing operations. Commitment to
sustainable development was restored during the second half of 1996, and the Government was
able to successfully establish an appropriate policy environment for the forestry sector. Policy
guidelines allowing the Forests Authority to control forest exploitation in connection with
agricultural and roading development projects were approved by Cabinet and implemented-this
included issuing Department of Agriculture guidelines for project approval, and operationalizing
an inter-departmental task force to review and recommend to Cabinet on all project proposals.
Finally, the new forest resource owner royalty and levy scales, originally scheduled for January
1, 1996 but delayed until July 1,1996, were notified and gazetted.
30.   Subsequently the Government introduced amendments in the July 1996 session of
Parliament that were in direct violation of the spirit of the reforms and would have undermined
the independence of the Forestry Board. However, in response to considerable pressure from a
broad based alliance of civil society as well as donors, the Government reversed these in October
1996 and undertook additional measures to strengthen the Board.
31.   Public Service Delivery. This objective had two components. The first was to improve
public service delivery by restructuring public expenditures to focus on the provision of basic
services. Second, to promote more even development by ensuring equitable allocations of
public funds across regions, especially to the poorer provinces. This objective was to be attained
by reaching agreements with the Bank on annual recurrent budgets and a three-year rolling
Public Investment Program (PIP). Targets of 25 percent as the minimum shares of expenditures
for: (i) primary and secondary education, and primary health and hospital services; and (ii)
agriculture and renewable natural resources, transport and communications, and economic and
infrastructure development were planned. In this regard, the Government also expected to
establish a system to enable hospitals to enter into direct contractual relationships with private
pharmaceutical suppliers for the supply of drugs in at least two urban areas. Furthermore, it
intended to fully operationalize the provincial and local-level government reform program
introduced in 1995, which focused on government finances, service delivery, and public service
restructuring. Moreover, to strengthen the administrative capacity to monitor the utilization of
funds at the local level, standards for delivery of basic services were to be established.
32.   Program objectives in this area were met, but with significant delays. The
implementation of the 1995 Budget encountered serious difficulties due to the ongoing
organizational changes in key government departments and the tight budgetary situation.
Nevertheless following a supervision mission in late 1995, implementation improved
significantly and the targets for priority expenditures for the year were largely achieved, with
24.2 percent of expenditures expended in the health and education sectors and 24.7 percent of
expenditures expended in agriculture, renewable natural resources and infrastructure.



-8-
33.   The Government's original 1996 budget submission was judged inadequate in terms of
reflecting the priority needs of PNG. Following substantial revision and reallocation the Budget
and public investment program for 1996 were submitted to Parliament. The Government's
implementation of the 1996 Budget and PIP are judged a success at the national level as
indicated by the timely and adequate release of funds for key programs. Through the first three
quarters of 1996, the National PIP was over 70 percent implemented and this figure climbed to
just over 100 percent by year end. This good implementation performance was assisted by new
procedures on project trust accounts making them accessible to project implementation agencies.
Deposits into these accounts were based on agreed cash flow projections which encompassed
both the Government's obligation and the donor financed portion.
34.   The implementation of the provincial PIPs has been difficult to track because of
incompatibilities that exist in the budgeting systems of National and Provincial Governments.
This difficulty was addressed during 1996 by a review of provincial charts of account that will
allow a proper functional view of provincial spending to be derived beginning in 1997.
35.   Monitorable standards for service delivery by provincial and local governments were
developed and announced, and an action plan for implementing the provincial and local level
governments reform program was formulated. To ensure more equitable provision of basic
services and to promote more efficient use of resources and better planning, a workshop on basic
minimum standards for service delivery was held in March 1997. Strategies to be pursued, in the
context of the medium-term development plan for 1997-2002, include focusing on program and
project expenditures in priority areas and working with provincial and local governments to
reach agreement on national, provincial and local priorities for expenditure. Finally, the
Government successfully reached agreement with the Bank on the composition of the 1997 PIP
and the broad allocations for the 1998 investment program.
36.  Implementation Record. On balance, the overall implementation of the ERP was
satisfactory, despite the considerable delays and implementation difficulties. Although technical
assistance was provided by the Bank-in the form of training for Central Bank officials in
handling and processing import documentation-some delays were initially experienced with
disbursements. Disbursements of funds under the second tranche were effected smoothly under
the new Bank procedures. The loan was prepared in ten months (in the context of identification,
pre-appraisal, and appraisal missions), and became effective on August 30, 1995. The first
tranche was released upon effectiveness, and the second tranche was released more than a year
behind schedule in January 1997. The stand-by arrangement with the IMF covering the period
ending December 1996, was extended to December 1997. Financing by the Export-Import Bank
of Japan became effective parallel with the IMF stand-by, with US$67 million in combined
financing still left to be disbursed in view of PNG's increased international reserves. Financing
from the Government of Australia became effective on September 30, 1995, and was fully
disbursed on the same day.
37.   Govermnent's slow progress in meeting second tranche release conditions contributed
directly to the delays in program implementation. In addition to maintaining the macroeconomic
and sectoral policy reform measures introduced prior to as well as part of the Board presentation,
there were a total of 9 conditions that needed to be complied with before release of the second



-9-
tranche (Appendix B), almost all of which met with delays. Of these, the most significant areas
of contention between the Bank and the Government were: (a) Government's wavering
commitment to sustainable forestry; (b) attempts to reverse private sector development reforms;
(c) allocation of funds to both Government agencies and to those NGOs and community-based
organizations responsible for provision of basic services; and (d) the implementation of the self-
initiated provincial and local government reform program.
38.   Social Dimension ofAdjustment. The program contained two elements to address the
social dimension of adjustment. First, it focused on generating growth in output and
employment in the non-mining economy in the medium term through macroeconomic and
structural policies. The poverty impact of the program was to be closely monitored through:
(a) food price indices for both rural and urban areas; (b) real wage and employment indices for
the private sector; (c) actual budgetary expenditures on the social sectors (especially for primary
health care and education); and (d) expenditure targeting for rural development through NGOs
and church groups. Second, it aimed to build the implementation capacity of those government
institutions responsible for emergency relief programs beginning with the Rabaul emergency
program.
39.   The achievement with respect to social objectives was satisfactory. PNG has a village
based society where about 85 percent of thc, -pulation resides. In this context, program
objectives were appropriately aimed at providing increased access to basic services at the village
level. The institution building undertaken by the Government to increase its capacity in project
and program implementation is expected to have a positive effect on poverty alleviation and this
is supported by the budget allocations for minimum expenditure shares in the human resource
sectors and for economic and physical infrastructure that were secured through the 1996 Budget.
The program aimed to increase and regularize the level of transfers to church groups-which are
important service delivery mechanisms throughout rural PNG-and provincial governments for
provision of basic services in these key areas. The success of these efforts must be judged as
somewhat limited, as the reallocation of resources was achieved after much difficulty but that has
not translated entirely into more resources at the local levels. In addition, joint Government-
donor community programs were prepared to increase rural employment and income creation
opportunities, thereby alleviating the social costs of adjustments and reducing poverty.
Furthermore, the Gazelle Restoration Authority, tasked with providing emergency assistance, has
been successful in addressing the needs of the displaced people-and in repairing schools, roads,
bridges, etc.-in the areas worst affected by natural disasters.
40.   Environmental Impact. The prograrn was designed to ensure an environmentally sound
operation. Positive outcomes were to be achieved in two areas: first, the legal and regulatory
framework governing the activities of the private sector in the forestry sector, was to be
strengthened and enforced. Second, the budgetary allocations to those government departments
responsible for protecting the environment, such as the NFA, the Departments of Environment
and Conservation, and Agriculture and Livestock, were to be increased. Adoption and enactment
into law of the PNG Logging Code of Practice ensured that the objective with respective to the
forestry sector was met. The Bank is following up on that measure through the provision of
training in the implementation of this code for NFA field staff and others in the private sector.
Although great effort was expended to ensure that budgetary allocations were adequate for the
various departments in the environmental area, this objective was only partially realized with the



-10-
NFA receiving adequate funding. Nevertheless, there were no adverse consequences as the result
of falling short of the indicative targets for the other departments.
D.    Bank and Borrower Performance
41.   Borrower Performance. The borrower's performance during preparation was
satisfactory, but its subsequent performance in implementation was deficient. This can be traced
to a number of factors: (i) Government commitment to the overall program, although strong at
the beginning, began to waver; (ii) in particular areas, such as forestry, there was little support
for the program, especially at the political level; (iii) institutional capacity of the bureaucracy to
deliver the program was weak, but due to Government actions deteriorated further;
(iv) Government's sudden restructuring of the key implementing agencies proved disruptive to
implementation; (v) project management was weak within certain departments; (vi) interaction
and coordination among key institutions responsible for the implementation of the reform
program was inadequate; (vii) flow of funds for development expenditures was irregular and
uneven across provinces for part of the period; (viii) administrative capacity at the provincial
level was seriously lacking and monitoring and implementation of provincial budgets was poor;
and, (ix) allocations of funds to key priority areas were insufficient. In addition, the Borrower
was late in its compliance with legal covenants.
42.   These issues resulted in implementation delays, an extension of the closing date and
ultimately led to the borrower requesting waivers of second tranche release conditions which
were granted. During the second half of 1996, faced with rapidly growing international and
donor concerns over the derailment of the program, the Government renewed its commitment to
the reforms, in the process achieving all five key objectives of the program. Most of the
difficulties were with respect to compliance with second tranche release conditions.
Consequently, second tranche release was delayed by one year compared to the originally
scheduled date. Six of the nine agreed conditions for second tranche release were fully met or
exceeded. The remaining three were waived by the Board.
43.   Bank Performance. The Bank's performance is rated satisfactory. The loan processing,
from preparation to approval, was conducted in a timely manner. Supervision visits were both
frequent and rigorous and the supervision effort was continuous, with a total of five supervision
missions undertaken during the February-November 1996 period, totaling 86.3 staff weeks. A
formal supervision report was prepared and discussed for each mission. The Bank's approach
with regard to the loan conditionalities was to remain firm. As a result of this approach, the
Bank was able to effectively minimize program disruption due to the Borrower's limited
capacity, and in the process improve their overall program management.
44.   Design of the program could, however, have taken greater account of the Borrower's lack
of institutional capacity to manage and execute the program. This would in all likelihood have
eliminated much of the implementation delays and other problems that were encountered during
the course of the program. While PNG's well known history of limited institutional capacity and
hence poor project implementation record is acknowledged, it should be noted that in the few
years prior to this operation, the deterioration of institutional capacity in PNG accelerated
significantly as successive Governments weakened the civil service through a process of
politicization.



E.    Sustainability
45.   In spite of the fact that the five key objectives of the program were met, the prospects for
sustainability are uncertain particularly in light of the weakening of Government commitment
during implementation and backsliding in some areas. This harkens back to an important issue
in PNG but not one that is unique to it: that of accountability. To the extent that the reform
process has improved public accountability, the case for long term sustainability is strengthened.
Clearly, sustainability of the program also depends critically on the balance between the losers
(mainly vested interest groups and monopoly rent seekers) from the structural transformation
program and the so-called winners or beneficiaries of this process (including the rural poor, cash
crop farmers and small and medium entrepreneurs). Thus it is important for long term
sustainability that there be a resumption of growth and increased economic opportunities for the
population at large. This in turn makes a case in support of the envisaged follow-up adjustment
operation, in order to deepen and consolidate the reforms and ensure their sustainability.
46.   On macroeconomic stabilization, sustainability is less uncertain, however, as
macroeconomic balance has been restored and prior to the recent crisis PNG had established a
consistent track record of good macroeconomic management. A macroeconomic framework for
1997 is in place, and the basic indicators in terms of growth, external balance, and investment are
positive. It is only because of PNG's erratic policy performance of the recent past that raises the
sustainability issue. The increase in real output expected for 1997 and 1998-3.5 percent and
5.3 percent respectively-is attainable as long as Government remains committed to the reforms
and continues to deepen the structural change agenda. The measures undertaken on the fiscal
management side, will be especially critical to maintaining macroeconomic stability.
47.   On private sector development, the investment, trade and price decontrol reforms
undertaken are key in sustainability. In 1996 manufacturing and construction grew at an annual
rate of 3.8 percent and 29.3 percent, respectively, reversing the negative trend of the previous
year. Growth in this area is especially important for employment generation despite its small
size. Other indicators-such as the increasing share of the private sector in trade, transport,
communications and financial services-highlight the potential of the private sector to make a
significant economic contribution. The main concerns have to do with Government's earlier and
possibly ongoing attempts to reverse the tariff reforms.
48.   With respect to the forestry sector sustainability remains a serious concern. Although the
key components of the forestry-related conditions have all been met, Government commitment
here has been the weakest. However, the program has been responsible for broadening the public
debate on this issue which has in turn generated much support for the framework of forestry
policies that the program was supporting. This support has come from both segments of civil
society and the bureaucracy and therefore has the potential to be a positive element that could
insist on retaining the newly established accountability and argue against policy reversal.



-12-
F.    Assessment of the Outcome
49.   Overall, the operation was successful in achieving its key objectives in spite of the
considerable delays that were experienced. It marks a promising start to the long delayed process
of structural reform in PNG and has the potential to lead to long term economic recovery and
growth. It should, however, be noted that since this is only a beginning it is still too early to
make definitive judgments on long term outcomes. Moreover the remaining agenda in terms of
deepening the reforms to ensure their sustainability as well as the viability of the resumption of
growth are considerable. On this basis, the assessment of the program outcome is rated
"satisfactory".
G.    Lessons Learned
50.   The key lessons learned from the implementation of this loan are:
(a)   More detailed attention needs to be focused on achieving and maintaining sustainable
consensus for the reform program. From the beginning, support for the program was mixed and
fragile because inadequate attention was given by Government to disseminating public
information on the need for economic reform and on the objectives of the program. To ensure
effective implementation of the reforms and their sustainability, solid and long term political
commitment is needed. To this end, support for the reform program should be built by involving
all elements of society including the bureaucracy, the polity and stakeholders in civil society.
(b)   Program design, while specific in terms of the required conditions to achieve the five key
objectives, did not adequately reflect PNG's weak implementation capacity. Although
considerable effort was expended to provide technical assistance to improve the Government's
capacity to implement the program, in hindsight it was insufficient. More attention should have
been given to providing governmental institutions with the skills needed to implement the
program and assume ownership. As most program difficulties encountered were associated with
the lack of Government commitment to the reforms, a stronger sense of ownership and technical
skills would have strengthened commitment. In this area the Government's budget preparation
and fiscal management capacity were key constraints;
(c)   The Bank strategy of taking a firm but reasoned stand on all of the loan conditions played
a key role in bringing the program to a satisfactory conclusion. In particular, this consistency of
position was crucial to bringing the program back on track at various points; and
(d)   Program implementation difficulties could have been more easily handled through better
utilization of the existing capacity of NGOs and churches, most specifically with regards to the
delivery of basic services. The Government, however, was initially unconvinced of the
potentially pivotal role that these elements of civil society could play in implementing the
program. Towards the end, however, there was a growing conviction in the part of Government
that these were potentially effective partners that they could utilize in support of the common
development agenda. This is reflected in the allocation of funds in the 1996 mini-budget and
1997 Budget for programs to be implemented through NGOs and community groups.



-13-
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives                     Substantial      Partial     Negligible    Not applicable
Macro Policies                                         X
Sector Policies                                        X
Financial Objectives                                                                              X
Institutional Development                                           X
Physical Objectives                                                                               X
Poverty Reduction                                      X
Gender Issues                                                                                     X
Other Social Objectives                                             X
Environmental Objectives                               X
Public Sector Management                               X
Private Sector Development                             X
Other (specify)
B. Project Sustainability                            Likely                    Unlikely       Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                                 Highly                    Satisfactory    Deficient
satisfactory
Identification                                                                    X
Preparation Assistance                                                            X
Appraisal                                                                         X
Supervision                                            X
D. Borrower Performance                             Highly                    Satisfactory     Deficient
satisfactory
Preparation                                                                       X
Implementation                                                                                    X
Covenant Compliance                                                               X
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of Outcome                            Highly    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    Deficient
satisfactory
Overall outcome                                                     X



-14-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title         Purpose                        Year    Status
Approved
Preceding operations:
Structural Adjustment    The three principal objectives  1990      Closed.
Loan (Loan 3218-Papua    were to:                                  The PCR rated the project
New Guinea)              (a) Preserve financial stability;         as unsatisfactory and its
(b) Improve public resource              sustainabiiity as unlikely.
management; &                            The institutional
(c) Promote the private non-             development impact was
mining sector                            rated as modest.



-1 5-
Table 3: Program Timetable
Step in Project Cycle                  Planned                Actual/ Latest
Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  October 2, 1994   October 2, 1994
Preparation (Economic Mission)         February 1995          February 1995
Preappraisal                           March 28,1995          March 28,1995
Appraisal                              July 15,1995           July 15,1995
Negotiations                           July 24,1995           August 4, 1995
Letter of Development Policy           July 24,1995           August 7,1995
Board Presentation                     August 29,1995         August 29,1995
Signing                                                       August 30,1995
Effectiveness                          September 1995         August 30,1995
First Tranche Release                  September 1995         August 30,1995
Second Tranche Release                 December 1995          January 8, 1997
Program Completion                     September 1996         January 1997
Loan closing                           September 30,1996      January 15,1997



-16-
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY96                    FY97
Appraisal Estimate             50
Actual                         25                      25
Actual as % of Estimate        50%
Date of Final Disbursement                             January 1997



-17-
Table 5: Key Economic Indicators for Program Monitoring
1995                  1996
Program               Program
Projections   Actual   Projections Estimates
GDP Growth (%):                           -3.0        -2.9        1.4         2.2
- Mining & Petroleum                  -14.1       -7.9       -10.3       -1.3
- Non-mining                           0.8        - 1.0        4.9        3.4
Agriculture                        8.7         8.8        4.1         5.9
Exports Growth (GNFS) (%)                 -6.3        -4.3 La    -5.9        -0.9
Imports Growth (GNFS) (%)                  3.8        - 1.2 la   21.9        18.1
Consumer Inflation (ann. av.) (%)         17.5        17.3        5.9        11.6
Exchange Rate (period av.) (US$/Kina)      0.75 lb     0.78        ..         0.76
Gross Investment (% of GDP) l             22.8        21.6       29.1        25.5
Total Revenues & Grants                   25.6        26.7       27.7        27.9
Total Expenditures                        26.5        27.2       28.7        27.3
Overall Budget Balance (including grants)  -0.9       -0.5       -1.0         0.6
La Estimates.
Lb As of mid-July 1995.
/c At constant prices.



-18-
Table 6: Studies Included in the Program
Study            Pnrpose as Defined at                   Status       Impact of study
Appraisal/Redefined
Tariff and       To facilitate private sector participation in   Completed   Substantial. The study had a positive
Indirect         the growth process, the study was framed             influence on policy direction.
Taxation         to:
Reform           - review the existing tax and tariff
systems;
- identify shortcomings; and
- recommend an action plan to streamline
the system in line with PNG's
comparative advantage and fiscal
requirements
Survey of Costs   To determine the cost structure for various  Completed   Substantial. The study assisted in
of Production    industries with a view to determining the            building consensus amongst the private
for the          appropriate level of protection.                     sector as to the appropriate phasing in
Manufacturing                                                         adjusting the rate of domestic
Sector                                                                protection.
Benefits Review   To determine the competitiveness of    Completed   Moderate. While the study raised
for Public       public sector employment benefits with a             awareness among senior policy makers
Sector           view to formulating an action plan to                about the high level of retrenchment
Employees,       bring them in line with the private sector.          benefits payable to public sector
including                                                             employees, it did not lead to the
Retrenchment                                                          formulation of a concrete action plan to
Benefits                                                              adjust the level of such benefits.



-19-
Table 7       Status of Legal Covenants with Conditions for Tranche Release
Covenant   Present   Description of Covenant                Comments
A; ecmnt    Type          Status
3.01 (a)      9           C         The Borrower and the Bank shall from    Regular and intensive supervision was carried out;
time to time, at the request of      the Government provided regular monthly reports
either party, exchange views on the  on implementation progress.
progress achieved in carrying out the
Program and actions specified in
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
3.01 (a)      12          C         (1) Continuous maintenance of a sound   Despite a lapse during mid- 1996, good progress
macro-economic framework, consistent   was achieved in maintaining macroeconomic
with the objectives of the Program, as    stability.
determined on the basis of indicators
agreed to by the Borrower and the
Bank.
3.01 (a)      12          C         (2) Establish a continuous market-    Currency was devalued by 12% in September
determined exchange rate for Kina.    1994, and a floating system was introduced in
October 1994. Further, to increase the efficiency
of foreign exchange market operations, a screen-
based system for determining the exchange rate
was introduced in August 1995 -- the Kina
depreciated steadily during 1996 and has since
been at about K 0.74-K 0.75 per U.S. dollar.
3.01 (a)      11          NC        (3) Comply with the expenditure targets  This condition was not met, thus a waiver was
for October 31, 1995, for the Gazelle  sought and approved by the Board. Actual
Restoration Authority's emergency    expenditure commitments through end-October,
relief program.                       1995 fell short of the agreed target by about 20
percent. Subsequently, however, Government took
a number of steps to achieve the objectives of this
criterion, expediting the implementation rate by
removing various administrative and legal
bottlenecks. By May 1996, this had resulted in a
sharp increase in the rate of implementation, and
revised monthly targets for commitments and
disbursement were met consistently.
3.01 (a)      9           C         (4) Carry out a review of the benefits  A comprehensive review, in accordance with terms
package, satisfactory to the Bank, for  of reference acceptable to the Bank, was carried out
civil service employees including    by the Department of Personnel Management in the
redundancy benefits and furnish a copy   first half of 1996.
of the review to the Bank.
3.01 (a)      12          C         (5) (a) Adopt a framework to replace  Government removed all import bans effective
quantitative restrictions on imports and   January 1, 1997. Import bans on beef/lamb and
import bans, on cement and on all cuts   cement were replaced by a tariff rate of 40 percent
and packaging forms of beef and lamb,   from January 1, 1996. This rate is scheduled to
by tariff rates; and (b) lower such tariff   decrease in steps to 20 percert in the case of
rates to internationally acceptable levels  beef/lamb and 10 percent for cement by year 2000.
over a five-year time table.         The Government's commitment to further trade
reform is reflected by its membership in WTO and
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ A PE C .
3.01 (a)      11          NC        (6) Develop a framework to carry      This condition was not fully met, thus a waiver was
through the following minimum         sought and approved by the Board. Expenditures
expenditure shares of total expenditures:  on social and economic programs in 1995 fell short
(i) 25% for primary and secondary     of the targets by a small margin (education and
education, and primary health and hospit  health amounted to 24.7 percent, while economic
services; and (ii) 25% for agriculture,    sectors amounted to 24.2 percent). For 1996,
renewable natural resources, transport,   however, the actual outturn was in line with the
communications, economic development, agreed target of 25 percent.
and infrastructure development.     I_I



-20-
Table 7    Status of Legal Covenants with Conditions for Tranche Release
:Leantt ;:0ii0t0 Covenant   Present  :Description of Covenant           Comm:nts
Agreement000    T X  ype:  Status:
Setionii
3.01 (a)      11         NC         (7) Submit to Parliament a budget for   This condition was not fully met, thus a waiver was
FY 1996, acceptable to the Bank, to  sought and approved by the Board. While the
include (i) agreed shares for primary    original 1996 budget did not fully meet the
and secondary education, health and  objectives set by this condition, close consultations
hospital services, agriculture,     between the Government and the Bank resulted in
renewable natural resources, transport,  actual outlays consistent with the criteria -- the
communications, economic            budget allocations were revised in September 1996
development, and infrastructure    to ensure consistency with actual outlays -- thus
development, and (ii) a public      part (i) of the condition was met. The preparation
investment program for FY 1996      of a medium-term development strategy and
through FY 1998.                    investment plan was delayed substantially,
however, due mainly to the introduction of the
provincial and local-level govemments reform
program in November 1995 and serious
weaknesses in GOPNG's planning capacity. The
National Planning Office presented to Parliament,
in December 1996, a policy document and is now
preparing a more detailed medium-term strategy
consistent with the overall objectives of the reformn
program. The Government and the Bank agreed on
a detailed public investment plan for 1997 and the
____________   __________  _________              broad  outlines of the plan  for 1998.
3.01 (a)      12         CD         (8) (a) establish standards for quality  After some delay, arising largely from the enormity
and quantity of social services,    of the provincial and local-level governments
physical infrastructure services, and  reform program, the Government set up, in mid-
agricultural services to be provided by   1996, a National Monitoring Authority (NMA).
provincial and local level governments;  With membership from various Government
and (b) implement the Provincial and    agencies, and support from the Bank, the NMA
Local-Level Government Reform       developed, in consultation with the Provincial
Program which should include staffing   Administrators, a detailed medium-term
and financial implications.        implementation action plan, along with standards
for quality and quantity of agricultural,
infrastructure and social services to be delivered by
the provincial and local governments. Both the
action plan and the standards were included as part
of the Medium-Term Development Strategy
Document, which was approved by Parliament in
December 1996.
3.01 (a)      12         C          (9) Develop an action plan, acceptable   Based on a study undertaken in October 1995, the
to the Bank, providing the necessary  1996 budget contained an announcement on
measures for the establishment of a  privatizing the distribution function of
system to enable hospitals to enter into  pharmaceutical supplies, covering rural aid posts as
direct contractual relationships with  well as regional hospitals. The legal and
private pharmaceutical suppliers for  administrative arrangements were put in place in
the supply of drugs in at least two  August 1996, and the donor community is now
urban areas.                        assisting Government with funding requirements,
as well as devising the procurement procedures for
all provinces rather than only two.



-21-
Table 7      Status of Legal Covenants with Conditions for Tranche Release
Loan          Covenant   Present   Description of Covenant               Comments
Agreement    Type         Status
Section
3.01 (b)      9           C         Prior to each exchange of views on   Regular reporting was provided by SAPIS on the
progress achieved in implementing the   progress achieved in implementation, as well as
program, the Borrower shall furnish to   other components of the program.
the Bank for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program, including the
implementation of its Provincial and
Local-Level Governments Reform
Program, in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
3.01 (c)      9           C         Without limitation upon the provisions  Fulfilled
of paragraph (a) of Section 3, the
Borrower shall exchange views with
the Bank on any proposed action to be
taken after the disbursement of the
Loan which would have the effect of
materially reversing the objectives of
the program, or any action taken under
the program, including any action
specified in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
3.02          5           C         The Borrower shall, until the Closing    Fulfilled
Date, maintain its Structural
Adjustment Program Implementation
Secretariat, with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, and competent
staff in adequate numbers.
3.03          1           C         Except as the Bank shall otherwise   Fulfilled
agree, procurement of the goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
3.04 (a)      I           C         The Borrower shall maintain or cause to  Fulfilled
be maintained records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accountin
practices the expenditures financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan.



-22-
Table 7 : Status of Legal Covenants with Conditions for Tranche Release
Lemi      ~~Covenant   Present   Description of Covenant                  Comments
Agrent et    Type          Status
Sectio n,                                                                    _ _ _ _ __E_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __:_: _i_-__ _ _ _ _
3.04 (b)       I           C          The Borrower shall: (i) have the       Fulfilled. The first audit was completed in April
records and accounts referred to in   1996 (on the 1995 accounts) with full compliance.
paragraph (a) of this Section, including   The second audit was completed in April 1997.
those for Special Account, for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such
year, a certified copy of the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning said records
and accounts and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time
_____________            reasonably request.
3.04 (c)       I           C          For all expenditures with respect to   Fulfilled. All required audits were completed.
which withdrawals from the Loan
Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to
be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records
and accounts reflecting such
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least
one year after the Bank has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents, or
customs certificates, as appropriate)
evidencing such expenditures; (iii)
enable the bank's representatives to
examine such records; and (iv) ensure
that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audits referred
to in paragraph (b) of this Section and
that the report of such audit contains a
separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure
submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.



-23-
Table 7 : Status of Legal Covenants with Conditions for Tranche Release
Loark         Covenant   Present   Description of Covenant              Comments
Agrrement    Type         Status
Section
Covenant types:                                                    Present Status:
1.  =  Accounts/audits                                             C   = covenant complied with
2.  =  Financial performance/revenue                                CD  = complied with after delays
generation from beneficiaries                              CP  = complied with partially
3.  =  Flow and utilization of project funds                       NC  = not complied with
4.  =  Counterpart funding                                         NYD = not yet due
5.  =  Management aspects of the project or executing agency
6.  =  Environmental covenants
7.  =  Involuntary resettlement
8.  =  Indigenous people
9.  =  Monitoring, review, and reporting
10. =  Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11  =   Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resources allocation
12  =   Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
13  =  Other



-24-
Table 8: Program Financing
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Source                      Costs    Costs               Costs    Costs
World Bank                     -       80        80         -       50        50
Other financing:
(1) IMF                        -      107       107         -       59        59
(2) Japan Exim Bank            -       45        45         -       30        30
(3) Australia                  -       50        50         -       50        50
Total                          -      282       282         -      189       189



-25-
Table 9: Bank Resources, Staff Inputs
Planned               Actual
Stage of Project Cycle    Weeks   US$ ('000)   Weeks   US$ ('000)
Preparation to Appraisal  ..        =         59.9      209.6
Appraisal                 ..         ..        0.6       18.0
Negotiation through       ..         ..        3.6       12.3
Board Approval
Supervision             35.0      176.9      112.5      579.2
TOTAL                   35.0      176.9      176.6      819.1



-26-
Table 10: Bank Resources, Missions
Performance Rating
Number    Days    Specialized    Implement-    Develop-
St  of FProetCycle   Month f ofTPersonsa i DFIeld    StaffSkills   tation Status         mnent             Types of Problems
Year                           Represented                   Objectives
Through appraisal     July 1995       3         50          E/RP                                            Fiscal Discipline
(3 missions)
Appraisal through      August         4          15         E/RP
board approval           1995
Board Approval         August
through effectiveness    1995
Supervision I          Feb/Mar        8          14         E/RP            3             3       - Fiscal management and expenditure
1996                                                                      controls.
- Tariff rate increase for cement from
40% to 150%.
- Monopoly elements of the proposed
petroleum refinery projects.
- Sustainable forestry practices and the
equitable share of the resource rent.
- Delivery of basic public services.
- 1996 Budget's expe diture
composition and allocation for key
social and economic services
Supervision 2         May/June        8          18     EIRP/L/F/I/A        3             3       - Expenditure controls.
1996                                                                     - FY 1996 Budget Funding for
essential
services and transferred functions.
- 1996 PIP composition.
- Schedule for lowering tariff rates on
cement, beef and lamb.
-Implementation of landowner royalty.
Supervision 3            July         8         12      EIRP/FAIL/C         2             3       - Fiscal Management and expenditure
1996                                                                      controls.
- Medium-term development. program
and the 1997 budget.
- Management of natural resources and
equitable resource rent sharing.
- Coverage and efficiency of public
service delivery.
Supervision 4         September       4          5      E/F/A/FAIC          3             3       - Macroeconomic framework.
1996                                                                     - Medium-term development program
and the 1997 PIP.
- Quality and Quantity standards for
provincial and local level govemment
services.
- Implementation of the provincial and
local level govemments reform
program.
Supervision 5          Oct/Nov        5         24      E/F/FAICIEX         2             2       - gazetting of the new Forestry
1996                                                                      amendments and the forest protection
policy guidelines.
Performance Ratings
I = Highly Satisfactory
2 = Satisfactory
3 = Unsatisfactory
4 = Highly Unsatisfactory
A = Anthropologist                         F  = Financial Specialist                      L  = Legal Counsel
C = Consultant                             FA = Forestry Advisor                          RP = ResearchlProg. Analyst
E = Economist/Macro.                       I  = Information Officer                       EX = Extemal Affairs Spec.



,  -27-                             Appendix A
Page 1 of 8
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
OUR REF                                                                 VULUPINDI HAUS
DATE.   6 June 1997                                                     P.0.130X 710.WAIGANI
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
Mr Richard Calkins
Division Chief
Papua New Guinea and Pacific Islands Division
East Asia Country Department III
The World Bank
1818 H Street
Washington DC 20433
United States of America
Dear Mr Calkins,
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT.
ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM LOAN (LOAN 3934 - PNG)
1.  Introduction
The Government of Papua New Guinea welcomes the opportunity of being able to make a
contribution to the World Bank's Implementation Completion Report for Economic Recovery
Program Loan (loan 3934) - PNG).
The Government first approached the World Bank for assistance under this loan in September
1994. The loan was subsequently approved by the Bank almost one year later in August
1995. The first tranche of US$25 million was drawn down by January 1996 and after lengthy
delays the second and final tranche of US$25 million was drawn down in January 1997.
* This paper reviews to experience under the Economic Recovery Programme during 1995-96
and focuses on some of the lessons from that exercise which might assist to improve the
design and implementation of the Second Phase of the reform programme.
2.   Backerourd
For most of the period from independence in 1975 until the early nineties the performance
of the Papua New Guinea economy was typified by stable macro economic conditions but
disappointingly low growth in production and employment, particularly in non mining and
petroleum sectors of the economy.



-28-                               Appendix A
Page 2 of 8
-2-
Overall macroeconomic stability had been achieved through the pursuit of generally prudent
financial policies. For most periods inflation did not greatly exceed that in Papua New
Guineas main trading partner countries. Foreign reserves were generally comfortable, for
most periods averaging five to six months of non mining import cover.
The ability of the authorities to deliver stable economic outcomes had been demonstrated in
the late eighties and early nineties when the twin shocks of declining commodity prices and
closure of the large Bougainville copper mine were successfully weathered. The maintenance
of stability was assisted by short term external assistance (including a World Bank loan), and
also by the startup of major new resource projects, including the Porgera Lgold more and the
Kutubu oil field.
Overall macroeconomic stability had to some extent masked deep seated structural problems
in the Papua New Guinea economy which were hindering national aspirations for faster
growth and development. The structural constraints hindering growth included:
an overvalued and inflexible exchange rate;
an inflexible centralised form of wage fixation which provided for automatic
maintenance of real wage levels which were not internationally competitive in
relation to productivity;
an outdated taxation and revenue raising system which was inimical to private
business development and export growth;
industry development policies which had become excessively inward looking
and in some cases involved preferential treatment and protectionism;
low revenue collections from all major resources, including gold, copper,
petroleum, fisheries and forestry;
an inadequate education system;
difficulties in extending (and in some cases even maintaining) physical
infrastructure, especially given high costs inherent within Papua New Guinea
as a result of the rugged terrain and widely dispersed settlement patterns; and
related problems of decentralised service delivery with regard to most social
and economic services.
The new Government which came to office mid 1992 following the general elections was
committed to breaking the previous cycle of low growth and development. Their economic
policy statements at the time enunciated a path that was more adventurous and expansionary
than earlier govemments. While the risks of the bold new approach were recognised, it was
believed that there were no short term external constraints to expansion, in part because of
overoptimism as to the resource rentals that could be captured by the State from the newly
emerging petroleum industry.



-29-                              Appendix A
Page 3 of 8
-3-
The seeds for the fundamental economic difficulties experienced in late 1994 were thus sown
in the pursuit of expansionary policies in 1992 which came at a time when the economy had
not fully recovered from the decline in the terms of trade and the closure of Bougainville.
The World Bank's completion report places much of the blame for fiscal excess from 1992
on; (a) a public sector wages blowout; and (b) general declines in administrative expenditure
controls, including expenditure control systems. It is the view of the Government that the
evidence generally does not support this line of reasoning.
The main reasons for the emergence of fiscal difficulties between 1992 and 1994 in the
Government's view related to the overall stance of policy rather than administrative failures
and included:
major cuts to personal taxes, company taxes and import duty levels in the 1993
Budget;
the reintroduction of agricultural commodity price support programmes from
1992;
the increasing and costly emphasis placed on direct service delivery by
members of the Parliament with a range of new schemes superimposed without
equivalent reductions in existing bureaucratic mechanisms (e.g. EDF, Village
Services, Transport Funds and later RDP and RAP);
an inability to tailor military operations on Bougainville to financial levels
imposed by Parliament, thus leading to persistent and large budget overruns
related to security; and
a continuing rapid decline in Australian budget aid which had important
budgetary and foreign exchange implications.
As fiscal pressures emerged during 1993 and 1994, monetary policy remained relatively
accommodative. The failure to significantly adjust interest rates, aligned with a growing lack
of private sector confidence, resulted in very high demand for forward foreign exchange cover
in the Central Bank-sponsored forward market.
This trend in late 1994 was supported by significant short term financing to our Central Bank
from the Reserve Bank of Australia.
3.   The Economic Recovery Program and its Achievements
The Bank's summary of the program in it's completion report is broadly accepted by the
Government as being a fair statement of the programs pursued and the details of various
elements of the program are not repeated in detail in this statement.



-30-                                Appendix A
Page 4 of 8
-4-
At the time there was some concern on the part of the Government that it took almost one
year from the time of the crisis to the arrival of any external financing under the program.
Faced with this crisis the Government undertook a number of adjustments to macro economic
policies, the most important of which were: (a) devaluation and floating of the currency; (b)
tightening of monetary policy; (c) tightening of fiscal policy; and (d) pursuing restrictive
public sector wages policies.
The new policy reforms had been assisted by the change in Government in late 1994. By the
time the first external financing had begun to arrive in late 1995 the new policy regime
installed in late 1994 had already begun to work. In particular the currency had stabilised by
mid 1995 and the Central Bank's very heavy exposure to the forward currency market had
been largely unwound.
While the easing of the crisis provided a sound platform from which to move forward with
structural reforms aimed at growth. On the other hand, it may, as indicated in the Bank's
report, have lessened the pace of reform. However, despite the Bank's stated concerns about
lapses in commitment from time to time, the Government remained committed to reform
provided it could be convinced that reforms were likely to be beneficial to long term growth
and development.
It is the Government's view that many achievements have been recorded in the program to
date. The most important of these relate to structural reforms to the economy which will
facilitate faster long term growth in the future. These include:
a more flexible exchange rate policy to supplement the more flexible wage setting
policy in place since 1992;
a more independent Central Bank which is likely to pursue more flexible and
appropriate monetary and exchange rate policies than in the past;
a more restrict -e f ^-A stance, though considerable work is still needed, especially
on restructuring i. -expenditure budget and in restructuring and reforming the public
sector as a whole.;
an improved foreign and domestic trading structure and industry policy framework
with removal of emphasis on protection and favoured treatment to particular industries
and firms;
the commencement of important work on taxation and tariff reform which should
culminate in 1998 with the introduction of a Value Added Tax and considerable
further tariff reform:
important reforms in the forestry sector which should enhance resource sustainability
while at the same time improving resource rental collections to the State and
landowners, especially when prices are high.



-31-                               Appendix A
Page 5 of 8
-5-
in conjunction with Provincial and Local Level Government reforms, improving
service delivery for priority activities in decentralised locations; and
arange of technical reforms have been made which should assist with expenditure
control and Public Investment Program Implementation in the future.
4.   Problems and Lessons for the Future
(i)   Econoiic Recovery Programme (ERP) - Preparation and Design
The Government agrees with the World Bank view that the preparation and
design of the 1995 - 1996 ERP could have benefitted from a greater
accounting of inadequacies in the Borrower's institutional capacities and the
concomitant problems of a more effective intra-and inter-agency co-ordination
during the implementation stages. A number of issues relating to design and
preparation of the ERP are worth noting in planning for phase 2.
Firstly, the scope and content of the ERP was made overly ambitious. While
to some extent this was understandable from the point of view of making up
for lost ground under the first (1989 - 1990) Structural Adjustment Programme,
the lack of public awareness about the issues at stake, and the absence of a
consultative process with stakeholders meant that the ERP was viewed as
having been imposed on the Government and the people by the international
financial institutions and Donors.
Secondly, some opposition to the ERP had to do solely with the reputation of
the World Bank as institution in relation to outcomes and experiences of
SAP's in other developing countries.  Some effort at the outset towards
explaining th-  -ticular contexts of these programmes and the lessons for the
Bank oNt ri-e   -uld have lessened, and may even have silenced, this
particular op, Otion to the ERP, especially from the more articulate and vocal
sections of the civil sOCI  '.
Thirdly, the legal aspL. of iu,. Programme were not truly appreciated by the
Government during the p. licy discussions. The importance of these issues
only became obvious at the implementation stage.
Finally, the Government at times has felt like the "meat in the sandwich"
between the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
Programme design and preparation, and indeed, implementation could have
been made a lot more easier and manageable if the inconsistencies in policy
are first resolved between them and better policy uncderstanding and dialogue
established in Washington D.C.



-32-                                Appendix A
Page 6 of 8
-6-
(ii)   Implementation
On the positive side, the establishment of a Secretariat to co-ordinate the
implementation processes within the Government system helped to maintain
focus and follow up. For phase 2, it will be important to maintain a similar
structure and to critically assess its logistical and technical capacity.  In
addition, the Government agrees that the Bank's intensive supervision during
the implementation phase helped to maintain momentum and to address
problems promptly. For phase 2, such supervision and the overall interaction
between Bank staff and Government would be more beneficially served at the
bureaucratic levels to foster a greater sense of ownership and responsibility at
the level of the implementing agency.
On the negative side, the complexity of the provincial reform and the
difficulties associated with its implementation were probably not truly
appreciated at the design stages of the ERP both by Govemment and the Bank.
Thus the implications of provincial reforms for financial management, planning
and budgeting, natural resource management and service delivery turned out
to be more difficult because both reform programmes overlapped in their
implementation. Nevertheless, phase 1 of ERP has assisted with outlining and
clarifying some of the basic implementation stages and aspects of the
provincial reform and phase 2 will need to continue to consolidate these
advances.  Both parties now agree that this area of reform  presents a
considerable challenge and the design of phase 2 will need to take this into
account.
At the technical level, the points mentioned above under section (i) are
relevant from the Government's viewpoint. The scope and content for phase
2 will need to be carefully focused and the legal aspects of the policy matrix
and the Letter of Development Policy will need careful attention. In addition
a professional approach towards supervision and management of subsequent
SAP's will need to be agreed and established at the outset in line with the
agreed legal conditionalities attached to the SAL's.
A comprehensive consultative process needs to be instituted with the various
stakeholders before the Programme scope and content is discussed and agreed
between the Government and the World Bank.  This should include
comprehensive briefings of the National Executive Council (separately from
the Minister for Finance and other individual affected Ministries) as well as for
selected Parliamentary Committees. As appropriate. some of these discussions
and briefings could include presentations of findings of particular consultancy
reports for particular policy areas resulting from Technical Assistance.
Finally, a more serious effort on the part of the World Bank and the IMF to
resolve policy differences and inconsistencies in Programme content and policy
outcomes would assist considerably with Programme implementation.



-33-                               Appendix A
Page 7 of 8
-7-
(iii) Lessons Learnt
Several important lessons from the ERP should be kept in mind in the design
of phase 2:
(a)   the Bank should give an account of its collective experience of
previous SAL's in developing countries and how these experiences
relate to the PNG experience;
(b)   both parties should mount a joint educational programme/public
awareness program to ensure that the various stakeholders feel that they
have meaningfully contributed to the Programme content and become
active agents in the implementation process;
(c)   Technical Assistance should be used to assess the institutional capacity
of implementing agencies so that the implementation process can be
strengthened within the Government system;
(d)   implementating agencies should be engaged in consultations both
individually and collectively (through the co-ordinating unit) to foster
ownership and participation. It is not enough just to agree on proposed
changes with the Department of Finance.
The Development and implementation of the program was not without problems for
the State. A brief summary of lessons for the State for future programs of this nature
is as follows:
programs of long term structural reform should be entered into from a position
of economic stability and strength and not from one of crisis, such that the
State's bargaining position relating to the reform process is not weakened or
compromised;
ggreater caution should be exercised regarding commitments undertaken in the
policy matrix and the letter of development policy.  It eventuated that
statements of very general intent in the letter were subsequently treated as
legally binding by the Bank's lawyers. Government lawyers should attend
review negotiations;
significant dependence on foreign financing elements of the program should
be avoided. The program should be entered into because it supports particular
reforms and not simply to provide financing;
implementation capacity constraints should be carefully considered at the time
of negotiation and emphasis should be given to ensuring technical assistance
needs perceived by the State to be important are accommodated. Any failure
to deliver on agreed technical assistance should be a cause for renegotiation
of relevant areas of the reform program;



-34-                              Appendix A
Page 8 of 8
-8-
the addition of new or additional policy conditions once the initial framework
has been negotiated should be avoided.
as well as having a strong central implementation and coordination unit (such
as SAPIS in this program) similar small core groups in the key implementation
agencies to improve ownership and commitment may be developed. For
example, such a group in the Forestry Authority would have been useful given
the magnitude of changes implemented.
5.   A Final Note of Appreciation
Given the vital national issues and difficulties in the process of adjustment and reform the
negotiation and implementation of this program were complex and demanding tasks requiring
great skill and patience. The Government saw it as an advantage that it was able to deal with
one Bank team leader throughout the course of the program. This was in contrast to other
agencies and earlier experiences with the Bank, where high staff turnover was the unsettling
norm. The Government is appreciative of the hard work and dedication demonstrated by Mr
Pirouz Hamidian-Rad and his team, without which the considerable achievements of the
program would not have been possible.
More generally the Government is appreciative of the assistance of the World Bank in
approving and implementing this program and is hopeful that a second phase of the program
which is currently under discussion can also be successfully negotiated and implemented.
Yours sincerely,
ISAAC LUPARI
Acting Secretary



;   o  -e-_                     I RI A N  J A YA  ( IND ON E SI A )
o                                             -/B r* 
|   ---   /  -  __        Q               F      4               4 /  --  '
gtI     I-*   L 
iii-igfli~ ~     b,\ N8[s I                                       i gE :









IMAGING
Report No:           16723
Type:      ICR



