Page  1
                                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                                       LOAN NUMBER 3934 PNG
                               Loan Agreement
                      (Economic Recovery Program Loan)
                                   between
                  THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated August 30, 1995
                                                       LOAN NUMBER 3934 PNG
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated  August 30, 1995, between THE INDEPENDENT
STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A)  the Bank has received a letter dated August
7, 1995 from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural
adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in the
financing of urgently needed imports required during such
execution; and
      (B)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank
has decided in support of the Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in two tranches
as hereinafter provided;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Single
Currency Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency
Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the modifications
thereto set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to
read:
            " 'Project' means the imports and other activities
            that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
            pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan
            Agreement.";
      (b)   the last sentence of  Section 3.02 is deleted;
      (c)   the second sentence of  Section 5.01 is modified to
read:
            "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
            agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account
            of expenditures in the territories of any country
            which is not a member of the Bank or for goods
            produced in, or services supplied from, such
            territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
            to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
            if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of
            the Charter of the United Nations.";
      (d)   in Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
            under which any further withdrawals under the Loan
            would be inconsistent with the provisions of
            Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
            Agreement."; and
      (e)   Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c)   Not later than six months after the Closing
            Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
            purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the
            Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
            report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
            shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
            program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan
            Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the
            Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan
            Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
            the Loan."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Environmentally Hazardous Goods" means goods
prohibited to be imported under the laws of the Borrower or
international agreements to which the Borrower is a party;
      (b)   "Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean the fiscal year of the
Borrower commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31;
      (c)   "Forest Authority" means the Borrower's Forest
Authority established by the Forestry Act (No. 30) of 1991;
      (d)   "Gazelle Restoration Authority" means the Borrowerþs
Gazelle Restoration Authority established under the Gazelle
Restoration Act  (No. 1) of 1995;
      (e)   "Kina" and "PGK" mean the currency of the Borrower;
      (f)   "Provincial and Local-Level Governments Reform
Program" means the reform program set out in the Borrower's
Page  3
Organic Law No. 16 of 1995 on Provincial Government and Local-
Level Governments;
      (g)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No.
34/Rev.3 (1986);
      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (i)   "Structural Adjustment Programme Implementation
Secretariat" means the Secretariat established in the
Borrower's Department of Finance and Planning on April 26,
1995, by the National Executive Council Decision No. 67/95.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount equal to fifty million dollars
($50,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Program,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank
of Papua New Guinea (its Central Bank) on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30,
1996, or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
             (i)   "Interest Period" means the initial period from
                   and including the date of this Agreement to,
                   but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date
                   occurring thereafter, and after the initial
                   period, each period from and including an
                   Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the
                   next following Interest Payment Date.
            (ii)   "Interest Payment Date" means any date
                   specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
           (iii)   "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest
                   Period, the London interbank offered rate for
                   six-month deposits in dollars for value the
                   first day of such Interest Period (or, in the
                   case of the initial Interest Period, for value
                   the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next
                   preceding the first day of such Interest
Page  4
                   Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank
                   and expressed as a percentage per annum.
           (iii)   "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest
                   Period: (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of
                   1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average
                   margin, for such Interest Period, below (or
                   above) the London interbank offered rates, or
                   other reference rates, for six-month deposits,
                   in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings
                   or portions thereof allocated by the Bank to
                   fund single currency loans or portions thereof
                   made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably
                   determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                   percentage per annum.
      (c)   The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate
and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon
the determination thereof.
      (d)   Whenever, in light of changes in market practice
affecting the determination of the interest rates referred to
in this Section 2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply
a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the
Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may
modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable
to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six
(6) months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The basis
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not
apply to the Loan.
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE III
                            Particular Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, including
the implementation of its Provincial and Local-Level
Governments Reform Program, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
      (c)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall exchange
views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken after
the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any
action taken under the Program, including any action specified
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, until the Closing Date,
maintain its Structural Adjustment Programme Implementation
Secretariat, with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank,
and competent staff in adequate numbers.
      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Page  5
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of  Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
             (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                   for the Special Account, for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                   in any case not later than six months after the
                   end of each such year, a certified copy of the
                   report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                   scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
                   reasonably requested; and
           (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
             (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account was made, all records (contracts,
                   orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                   documents, or customs certificates, as
                   appropriate) evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audits referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such
                   fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                   internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                       Additional Event of Suspension
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof,
will be carried out.
Page  6
                                  ARTICLE V
                                 Termination
      Section 5.01. The date sixty (60) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Deputy Prime Minister and
               Minister of Finance
            Office of the Deputy Prime Minister
            Vulupindi Haus, P. O. Box 710
            Waigani, N C D,  Papua New Guinea
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   TREASURER                 NE 22218
                   Boroko
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT),
                   Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                               82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America as of the day
and year first above written.
                   THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
                   By /s/ Chris Haiveta, Minister of Finance
                                                  Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Russell Cheetham
                                                    Regional Vice President
Page  7
                                                      East Asia and Pacific
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed
out of such proceeds.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups
under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank
by notice to the Borrower:
      Group        Sub-group         Description of Items
      112          -                 Alcoholic beverages
      121          -                 Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                     tobacco refuse
      122          -                 Tobacco, manufactured
                                     (whether or not containing
                                     tobacco substitutes)
      525          -                 Radioactive and associated
                                     materials
      667          -                 Pearls, precious and
                                     semi-precious stones,
                                     unworked or worked
      718          718.7             Nuclear reactors and parts
                                     thereof; fuel elements
                                     (cartridges), non-irradiated,
                                     for nuclear reactors
      728.43             -           Tobacco processing
                                     machinery
      897          897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                     platinum group metals
                                     (except watches and watch
                                     cases) and goldsmiths' or
                                     silversmiths' wares
                                     (including set gems)
      971          -                 Gold, non-monetary
                                     (excluding gold ores
                                     and concentrates)
      (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
      (c)   payments made prior to the date of this Agreement for
expenditures, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $10,000,000 may be made on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after May 1, 1995;
      (d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts
costing less than $5,000 equivalent;
      (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract
Page  8
which any national or international financing institution or
agency, other than the Bank, shall have financed or agreed to
finance;
      (f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
      (g)   expenditures for Environmentally Hazardous Goods.
3.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $3,000,000
equivalent per contract may be permitted by the Bank on the
basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify.
4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower
in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn from the Loan Account and the total amount of such
commitments shall have reached the equivalent of $25,000,000,
unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views
as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on
evidence satisfactory to the Bank:
      (a)   with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program; and
      (b)   that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement have been taken.
5.    If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4
above, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that
the progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not
have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the
Bank, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
                          SCHEDULE 2
                      Amortization Schedule
                                             Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (Expressed in  Dollars)*
April 15, 2001                                         1,055,000
October 15, 2001                                       1,085,000
April 15, 2002                                         1,115,000
October 15, 2002                                       1,150,000
April 15, 2003                                         1,185,000
October 15, 2003                                       1,220,000
April 15, 2004                                         1,255,000
October 15, 2004                                       1,295,000
April 15, 2005                                         1,335,000
October 15, 2005                                       1,375,000
April 15, 2006                                         1,415,000
October 15, 2006                                       1,455,000
April 15, 2007                                         1,500,000
October 15, 2007                                       1,545,000
April 15, 2008                                         1,590,000
October 15, 2008                                       1,640,000
April 15, 2009                                         1,685,000
October 15, 2009                                       1,735,000
April 15, 2010                                         1,790,000
October 15, 2010                                       1,840,000
April 15, 2011                                         1,895,000
October 15, 2011                                       1,955,000
April 15, 2012                                         2,010,000
October 15, 2012                                       2,070,000
April 15, 2013                                         2,135,000
October 15, 2013                                       2,200,000
Page  9
April 15, 2014                                         2,265,000
October 15, 2014                                       2,330,000
April 15, 2015                                         2,400,000
October 15, 2015                                       2,475,000
___________________________________
*     The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars
      to be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of
      the General Conditions.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                            Procurement of Goods
Part A:     General
      Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Schedule,
as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines, subject to
the provisions of paragraphs 2.63, 2.64 and 2.65 thereof.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
      Goods estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent
per contract may be procured:
      (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's
public procurement procedures for the importation of goods,
under contracts awarded in accordance with such procedures,
provided that such procedures shall have been found acceptable
by the Bank; and
      (b)   by other purchasers:
            (i)    under contracts awarded on the basis of
            international shopping procedures in accordance with
            the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
            Guidelines; or
            (ii)   in the circumstances described in paragraph 3.7
            of the Guidelines, under direct contracting
            procedures in accordance with the provisions of said
            paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent or more than $3,000,000, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                   Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
                       of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.    The Borrower shall continue to maintain a sound macro-
economic framework, consistent with the objectives of the
Page  10
Program, as determined on the basis of indicators agreed to by
the Borrower and the Bank.
2.    The Borrower  shall have established a foreign currency
auction system based on a continuous posting of transactions,
and in which the rate of exchange of the Kina shall be market-
determined.
3.    The Borrower shall have complied with the expenditure
targets for October 31, 1995, for the Gazelle Restoration
Authorityþs emergency relief program, as set out in the
schedule agreed with the Bank.
4.    The Borrower shall have carried out a review, in
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, of
the benefits package for civil service employees, including
redundancy benefits, and shall have furnished a copy of such
review to the Bank.
5.    The Borrower shall have:
      (a)   replaced quantitative restrictions on imports, and
import bans, on cement and on all cuts and packaging forms of
beef and lamb, by tariff rates; and
      (b)   announced, in the context of the 1996 Budget, a five-
year time table for lowering the rates referred to in (a) above
to internationally acceptable levels.
6.    The Borrower shall have achieved the following minimum
expenditure shares of total expenditures: (i) 25% for primary
and secondary education, and primary health and hospital
services;  and (ii)  25% for agriculture, renewable natural
resources (excluding disbursements from the price stabilization
fund), transport, communications, economic development, and
infrastructure development. For purposes of this paragraph
þtotal expendituresþ is defined as the sum of the recurrent
expenditures and the public investment program expenditures
(development) less the multi-functional expenditures and the
public debt charges.
7.    The Borrower shall have presented to Parliament a budget
for FY 1996, acceptable to the Bank, such budget estimates to
include (i) agreed shares for primary and secondary education,
health and hospital services, agriculture, renewable natural
resources, transport, communications, economic development, and
infrastructure development, and (ii) a public investment
program for FY 1996 through FY 1998.
8.    The Borrower shall have:
      (a)   established standards for the quality and the
quantity of social services, physical infrastructure services,
and agricultural services to be provided by provincial and
local-level governments; and
      (b)   furnished to the Bank a proposed action plan for the
implementation of the Provincial and Local-Level Governments
Reform Program, such action plan to include staffing and
financial implications of said reform program.
9.    The Borrower shall have taken all measures necessary to
establish, in at least two of the Borrowerþs urban areas, a
system, acceptable to the Bank, to enable hospitals to enter
into direct contractual relationships with private
pharmaceutical suppliers for the supply of drugs.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                               Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  11
      (a)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocationþ means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
            (b)    (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account,
                         the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank
                         requests for deposits into the Special
                         Account at such intervals as the Bank
                         shall specify.
                  (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such
                         request, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                         Bank the documents and other evidence
                         required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
                         Schedule for the payment or payments in
                         respect of which replenishment is
                         requested. On the basis of each such
                         request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                         Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
                         and deposit into theSpecial Account such
                         amount as the Borrower shall have
                         requested and as shall have been shown by
                         said documents and other evidence to have
                         been paid out of the Special Account for
                         eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account in the respective equivalent amounts as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
Page  12
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 3.04 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, minus
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon
notice  from  the  Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
