Report No. 1216-DO                                                                FILE  COPY
Dominican Republic: Appraisal of a
Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project
June 21, 1976
Latin America and Caribbean Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                            = Dominican Peso (RD$)
US$1                                     a RD$ 1
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures
Metric                                   British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                              =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                         = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km)               = 0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)                     = 0.98 long ton (lg ton)
= 1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
1 kilogram (kg)                          =  2.2 po-unds (lb)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AIYr          - Average Dail; Traffic
GDP           - Gross Domestic Product
GNP           - Gross National Product
DB            -  Inter-American Development Bank
LVI           -  Lamarre Valois International
ONP           -  Oficina Nacional de Planeaci6n
SEOPC         - Secretar5a de Estado de Obras Pfiblicas y Comunicaciones
UNDP          -  United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .........              .......................       i-ii
1.    INTRODUCTION               ...........................................           1
2.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ......              .............................           2
A.    General  ...........................................                       2
B.    The Transport Modes  ....            ...........................           2
C.    Transport Policy,  Planning and Intermodal
Coordination ......................                                    4
3.    THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ............ .. ....................                       6
A.    The Highway Network ......             .........................           6
B.    Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic                   ........      6
C.    Highway Planning and Financing                 ....................        7
D.    Highway Administration  ........................... .                      8
E.    Highway Engineering  ...... .............. .                               9
F.    Highway Construction  . ................. . .......... .                   9
G.   Highway Maintenance  ..............           ..     ...............       10
4.    THE PROJECT ..............................................                      11
A.    General Description  ...............................                      11
B.    Cost Estimates and   Financing   .................             ...       14
C.    Execution  ......* . ....................................... .           16
D.   Procurement  .......................................                       16
E.   Disbursements  .......             ..............................         17
5.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION  ........ .....  .... .*o..  ...........                    17
A.    General ............................................                      17
B.    Reconstruction of the Puente Camu-San Francisco
de Macoris Road and Bridges  .....................                    18
C.    The Maintenance Program  ............          ..      .............      19
6.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ...............                ...       20
This appraisal report has been prepared by Messrs. R. Rafloski (Economist)
and L. Revuelta (Engineer) and has been edited by Miss V. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
TABLES
1.   Importation (1967-1971) and Sales (1970-1975) of Gasoline and Diesel Oil
2.   Vehicle Fleet Registration - 1962-1974
3.   Road User Charges - 1969-1974
4.   Highway Expenditures - 1968-1973
5.   Standards for the Puente Camu-San Francisco de Macoris Road
6.   Puente Camu-San Francisco de Macoris - Cost per Kilometer
7.   Average Daily Traffic and Forecast on Puente Camu-San Francisco de
Macoris Road (1973-1998)
8.   Vehicle Operating Costs Breakdown
9.   Sensitivity Analysis of Economic Returns
ANNEXES
1.   Time Schedule for Bridge Construction
2.   Time Schedule for Road Construction
3.   Time Schedule for Workshop Construction
4.   1976-1977 Highway Maintenance Services - Terms of Reference
5.   Terms of Reference for Supervision of Construction
6.   Proposed List of Personnel for Technical Assistance for a
Maintenance Program
7.   Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
CHART
IBRD 9236 - Organization of the Secretary of State for
Public Works and Communications
MAP
IBRD 11248R1 - Dominican Republic - Road Maintenance and
Reconstruction Project



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Dominican Republic relies for its transportation mainly upon an
extensive road network, several ports, an international airport, a public
railway line and various private railway lines. Despite the need to optimize
investments and to reduce the overall cost of transport, the Dominican
Republic does not have a formal transport sector policy.
ii.       The transport situation has been aggravated by an accelerated dete-
rioration of the highway network, due mainly to lack of, and improper, mainte-
nance; by a general decline in port-handling productivity; and by various
transport investment decisions not completely justified or of doubtful value.
The Government urgently needs to review the organization of the transport
sector in order to: (a) establish a more efficient organization for its
management; (b) improve the operation and maintenance of the various modes;
and (c) optimize transport investment. Transport planning should be strength-
ened, and each transport investment should be economically justified.
iii.      The proposed project would be the Bank's first transportation proj-
ect in the Dominican Republic; its main thrust is the improvement of highway
maintenance, procedures and planning. The proposed project would provide for:
(a) the reconstruction of 19 km of a high priority road; (b) the necessary
rehabilitation, widening or reconstruction of the bridges on the road; (c) a
highway maintenance program including purchase of highway maintenance equip-
ment, equipment spares and workshop tools and equipment, rehabilitation
or reconstruction of workshops, and improvement of road maintenance proce-
dures and planning; and (d) consulting services for supervision of the road
reconstruction and technical assistance for the maintenance program. A mainte-
nance program and the project elements for the rehabilitaiton of roads were
identified by the consultants Lamarre Valois International (LVI, Canada) in
the UNDP-financed study, "Highway Rehabilitation and Administration Study"
(1974). The detailed engineering for the project was prepared by Bank-
approved local consultants.
iv.       The need for a transport sector survey, including a transport master
plan and a study of the transport sector organization, is recognized by the
Government. This survey is not included in the project because the Government
has requested the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) to finance it. Dis-
cussions were held between the Government and IDB, with Bank involvement,
concerning the general direction of the study and terms of reference. The
successful and timely completion of this survey is a prerequisite to an
efficient transport system.



- ii -
v.        Execution of the project is expected to take about three years and
would be the responsibility of the Secretariat of Public Works and Communica-
tions (SEOPC). 1/ Consultants contracted under terms and conditions accept-
able to the Bank would assist in prequalifying bidders and in evaluating bids
and would supervise the reconstruction of the Puente Camu-San Francisco de
Macoris Road. The civil works contract to be financed by the Bank would be
awarded on a unit price basis after international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group "Guidelines". The bridges are to be financed by
the Government under a separate contract. The procurement of maintenance
equipment and workshop tools and equipment would be made through international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank "Guidelines"; equipment spares
orders not in excess of US$10,000 equivalent might be awarded directly to the
dealers of the equipment up to a maximum of US$200,000 equivalent. For the
consulting services for the maintenance program and supervision of the recon-
struction of the road, SEOPC has agreed to engage consultants under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.
vi.       Reconstruction of the Puente Camu-San Francisco de Macoris Road is
expected to provide quantifiable benefits by reducing vehicle operating
costs. These savings would accrue primarily to commercial vehicle operators
and other road users; however, since the implemented project would tend to
reduce the rate of increase in road transport costs, the general public is
also expected to benefit. The economic return for the civil works is 29%.
The new maintenance equipment, equipment spares, workshop tools and equip-
ment, plus the estimated annual costs for maintenance, would have an economic
return in excess of 20%. The economic return for both of these elements is
estimated at 24%.
vii.      The total cost is estimated at US$8.2 million equivalent, with a
foreign exchange cost of US$5.3 million (65%). The foreign exchange element
for the road is estimated to be 58%. It has been determined on the basis of
analysis of unit prices for each type of work, artd it assumes that the recon-
struction would be carried out by a foreign firm subcontracting part of the
works to, or associated with, a local firm. The foreign exchange cost of
maintenance equipment, workshop tools and equipment would be 100% of their
cost, insurance and freight, and the equipment spares foreign exchange cost,
expected to be purchased locally, is estimated to be 85%. The foreign cost of
consulting services is estimated at 63%.
viii.     It is proposed that, of the estimated foreign exchange cost of
US$5.3 million equivalent for the project, US$5.0 million equivalent be
covered by a Bank loan. The Government has agreed to meet the additional
foreign and local costs of the project in the amount of approximately
US$3.2 million equivalent. The loan would be on standard Third Window
terms.
1/ Secretaria de Estado de Obras Publicas y Comunicaciones.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Dominican Republic has asked the Bank to help
finance a project costing US$8.2 million equivalent, comprising: (a) recon-
struction of 19 km of a high priority road; (b) the necessary rehabilitation,
widening or reconstruction of the bridges on the road; (c) a highway mainte-
nance program including purchase of highway maintenance equipment, equipment
spares and workshop tools and equipment, rehabilitation or reconstruction
of workshops, and improvement of road maintenance procedures and planning; and
(d) consulting services for supervision of the road reconstruction and tech-
nical assistance for the maintenance program. The total project cost is
estimated to be US$8.2 million equivalent. The estimated foreign exchange
cost is US$5.3 million equivalent, of which it is proposed that the Bank
would finance US$5.0 million equivalent. The proposed loan does not include
the foreign exchange costs for the necessary bridge works (US$0.2 million
equivalent) or for the rehabilitation or reconstruction of the workshops
(US$0.1 million equivalent), which may be carried out by force account. The
balance of US$3.2 million equivalent in foreign and local costs would be
provided by the Government.
1.02      This would be the first Bank-financed highway project in the
Dominican Republic. A project identification mission visited the Dominican
Republic in early 1971, and, after discussions with the Government and the
United Nations Development Program (UNDP), a highway maintenance, rehabilita-
tion and administration study, to be financed in part by a UJNDP grant of
US$400,000, was planned. An agreement for the study was reached with the
consulting firm Lamarre Valois International (LVI, Canada), with the Bank
acting as Executing Agency.
1.03      LVI reviewed about 2,000 km of primary and secondary roads and iden-
tified approximately 1,200 km requiring rehabilitation or upgrading. LVI also
reviewed the need for workshops, workshop equipment and tools and road mainte-
nance equipment and spare parts; studied the administrative structure of the
Highway Department, its practices and procedures; and submitted recommenda-
tions on these items as well as on methods and procedures necessary to imple-
ment the recommendations. The feasibility studies and recommendations are
contained in the report entitled "Highway Rehabilitation and Administration
Study" (1974).
1.04      The main thrust of the proposed project would be the much needed
improvements in road maintenance procedures and planning. The civil works are
also important, aside from the high economic priority of the road, because the
Government needs to strengthen the capabilities of the Highway Department for
bidding procedures and supervision of civil works contracts.



- 2 -
1.05      Appraisal of the project was based on the work of LVI; on informa-
tion provided by the Government; and on the findings of an appraisal mission
comprising Messrs. R. Rafloski (Economist) and L. Revuelta (Engineer), which
visited the Dominican Republic in June/July 1974, and again, for updating its
information, in March 1976. The report has been edited by Miss V. Foster.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
2.01      The Dominican Republic occupies the eastern two-thirds of the
Caribbean island ot Hispaniola, which it shares with Haiti. It has an area
of about 48,700 km and a population of about 4.4 million. Its population has
been growing at a rate of about 2.9% per annum over the last ten years.
2.02      The Republic is crossed by four mountain ranges separated by fertile
valleys; the most important, agriculturally, is known as the Cibao Valley.
The Cordillera Central, the principal mountain range and main watershed, trav-
erses the country's central region and contains the highest mountain in the
West Indies, Pico Duarte (elevation 3,175 meters).
2.03      The country's economy is based primarily on agriculture, with sugar
the main crop; the expansion of the latter has been an important factor in
recent growth. Per capita GNP reached about US$520 1/ in 1973 as compared to
US$480 in 1972.
2.04      Aside from other agricultural products (coffee, cocoa, tobacco, beef,
and rice) and mineral products (bauxite, limestone, gypsum, gold and nickel), 2/
the Dominican Republic also has the climate, cultural heritage, and economic
assets well suited for tourism development. Large programs for the construc-
tion of accommodations and facilities to increase the number of tourists are
being undertaken, including the Puerto Plata project, financed by the Bank,
and it is expected that the growth of tourism will be high over the next ten
years. The full development of this potential is dependent upon an adequate
transport system.
B.   The Transport Modes
2.05      The transportation system essentially comprises an extensive road
network, several ports, an international airport, 16 local airports, a public
railway line, various private railway lines, and a private pipeline (Map IBRD
11248R1).
1/   World Bank Atlas (1975) basis.
2/   The large Falconbridge ferronickel plant, which the Bank helped to
finance, came into operation in 1971.



2.06      Roads are mainly concentrated in the center of the country, around
the axis joining the capital, Santo Domingo, with Santiago, the second largest
city and center of the richest agricultural area; a dense road network also
exists in the east, the sugarcane-producing area. The main highway network
comprises the Duarte highway (in the middle of the country), the Mella highway
in the east and the Sanchez highway in the west. Railways are mainly in the
east of the country. In general, the climate and, in some areas, the topo-
graphy make construction and maintenance of land transport facilities
rather difficult.
2.07      Due to the relatively small size of the country and its economic
structure (industries in Santo Domingo; agriculture in the Cibao Valley;
sugarcane in the east; bauxite in the southwest), transport flows are limited,
since the main exports (sugar and ferronickel) are transported by rail or road to
the nearest ports, involving hauls generally of less than 100 km. Agricul-
tural products from the Cibao Valley and industrial products and imports
through Santo Domingo constitute the other important transport flows of the
country. The average haul distance is 125 km. The short distances have
resulted in a great development of road transport, the mode most widely used.
Because the borders between Haiti and the Dominican Republic are closed for
normal commercial traffic, there is little or no commerce between the two
countries.
2.08      There is no specific information available on tons and ton-km
carried by the different modes for both passenger and freight traffic; how-
ever, LVI estimates that about 95% of the total internal transport moves by
road. Railway traffic represents 4% in freight and an insignificant percen-
tage in passengers; air traffic represents 1% in freight and 4% in passengers.
(i) Highways
2.09      The highway system is described in Chapter 3.
(ii) Railways
2.10      The Government owns and operates 112 km of 1-meter gauge line
between La Vega and Puerto Sanchez on the northeast coast. A 1.6 meter gauge
line, about 100 km long, running from Haina near Santo Domingo northward, is
operated by sugar companies. Other private lines, generally in poor condition,
are also operated by sugar companies.
(iii) Air Transport
2.11      The Dominican Republic has an international airport (Las Americas,
located 24 km east of Santo Domingo), capable of handling jumbo jets, and
16 local airports in service. An additional international airport is being
constructed in Puerto Plata as part of a program of tourism development on the
north coast and will be completed in 1978. International air traffic is
increasing rapidly, with about 60,000 passengers in 1973 and with connections
to the USA, Venezuela, Curacao and Spain. Domestic traffic is still very



- 4 -
limited (25,000 passengers in 1972) because of the small size of the country
and the quite extensive road network. There is, however, a demand for domestic
air transport because of the poor condition of certain roads and the inaccessi-
bility of certain regions.
(iv) Ports
2.12      About 90% of the total imports (1.9 million tons per annum) and 20%
of the exports (570,000 tons per annum) pass through Santo Domingo (which, in
fact has three harbors--Haina, Santo Domingo and Puerto Andres).  About 45% of
total exports (mineral) pass through the mineral-specialized port of Pedernales
in the southwest, close to Haiti. Puerto Plata, in the north (Atlantic
Coast), is being improved and will be the terminal for agricultural exports
from the Cibao Valley area. In general, the ports are inefficient due to
obsolete equipment and a high reliance on unskilled and semi-skilled labor.
Further, there appears to be an excessive number of ports for the amount of
cargo being handled, requiring much duplication of equipment and facilities.
(v) Coastal Shipping
2.13      There is very little coastal shipping.  The only movement of signif-
icance is that of gypsum, which is carried by barge from Barahona to Santo
Domingo.
(vi) Pipelines
2.14      At present, there is only one pipeline (private) in the Dominican
Republic. It carries oil from the refinery at Haina to the Falconbridge
ferronickel mine at Bonao.
C.   Transport Policy, Planning and Intermodal Coordination
2.15      The transport sector lacks clearly defined policies; its organiza-
tion is complex and ineffective, and its planning is weak. Although many
Government agencies have "transportation" as their dominant activity, there
appears to be a dissipation of development efforts without any apparent coor-
dination among these agencies, and most transportation projects seem to be
carried out in an ad hoc manner.
2.16      The Oficina Nacional de Planificacion (ONP), under the Secretaria
Tecnica de la Presidencia, is responsible for reviewing transport sector plan-
ning and intermodal coordination. The Planning Department of the Secretaria
de Estado de Obras Publicas y Comunicaciones (SEOPC) prepares an investment
plan each year for review by ONP and subsequent approval by the President
of the Republic. SEOPC is responsible, inter alia, for programming, plan-
ning, designing, building and maintaining primary and secondary roads; regu-
lating and policing highway traffic; and operating the Government-owned
railway system. Responsibility, including planning, for other transportation-
related functions is allocated as follows:
(a) The Direccion General de Caminos Vecinales (organizationally
under SEOPC but funded directly by the Office of the Presidency)
is in charge of local roads;



- 5 -
(b) The Direccion General de Aeronautica Civil, directly respon-
sible to the Office of the Presidency, is in charge of issuing
licenses and controlling air navigation;
(c) The Comision Administrativa Aeroportuaria, under the respon-
sibility of the Corporacion de Fomento Industrial, is in
charge of the administration of commercial airports (currently,
only the airport of Las Americas);
(d) The Autoridad Portuaria Dominicana, directly under the respon-
sibility of the Office of the Presidency, created in 1970 to
be in charge of all port operations, has, in fact, no real
responsibility. The Secretaria de Estado de Finanzas operates
the ports, and SEOPC maintains them;
(e) A few other agencies, such as the Secretaria de Estado de las
Fuerzas Armadas, Secretaria de Estado de Agricultura, and the
Instituto Agropecuario, are responsible for building feeder
roads within their jurisdiction and have specific budgets for
such purposes.
Most of these agencies are allocated very small budgets for capital invest-
ments, and most transportation investments are financed directly through the
Fondo Especial de la Presidencia, which is entirely under the control of the
Office of the Presidency.
2.17      Investment planning for the transport sector,e.g., the Four-Year
Transport Investment Plan (1970-1974), has been prepared by ONP, setting forth
the main objectives of the sector; the investment plans contain only very
tentative figures, however, and are not supported by any economic evaluation.
2.18      Although the Office of the Presidency makes the final decision on
most transport investments, the transport agencies which prepare investment
plans for consideration are not coordinated. Because of this lack of coordi-
nation and the high degree of overlapping responsibilities within the sector,
there is a large potential for over-investment among the modes. The country
needs a complete restructuring of the organizations responsible for the
functions of the transport sector as well as the transport master plan. Any
major modification of a single agency's organization, e.g., SEOPC, should
await this general reorganization.
2.19      The Government recognizes the need for, and has requested the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) to help finance, a transport sector
study, including preparation of a transport master plan and a study of the
transport sector organization.  The study would include:  (a) a review of the
transport sector policies and the agencies currently responsible for trans-
portation; (b) a consideration of whether the centralization of transportation
functions within a single agency reporting to the Office of the Presidency is
practical; (c) a review of Government agencies for possible reforms, parti-
cularly in pay scales and working hours; (d) a determination of the amount
and incidence of such charges necessary to provide sufficient revenue for



- 6 -
transport investment and maintenance; and (e) a general review of each trans-
port mode, with recommendations and suggested methods for improving its
operations and maintenance, particularly with regard to the trucking industry.
The study would also provide help in establishing a methodology for the
economic justification and ranking of projects and would recommend whether
such planning should be carried out within a single agency or should be under-
taken within each mode and coordinated by a single agency. The Bank has indi-
cated the above points to the Government and to IDB and has helped to prepare
the terms of reference for the study. The Government has indicated that it
would undertake such a study with financing provided by IDB, and an assurance
that the study would be carried out by December 31, 1977 was obtained during
negotiations.
3. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   The Highway Network
3.01       The inter-urban highway network comprises 5,500 km of primary paved
roads, about 4,000 km of secondary gravel and improved earth roads and about
1,200 km of farm-to-market earth roads. Since there is no precise administra-
tive classification of the roads and no roads inventory, the above figures are
approximate.
3.02       The four main roads of the network, all starting at Santo Domingo,
are: (a) the Sanchez highway, 193 km, to the west through Azua to Barahona,
with an average daily traffic (ADT) ranging from 675 to 1,400; (b) the Mella
highway, 75 km, to the east to San Pedro de Macoris with an ADT from 625 to
2,000; (c) the Las Americas highway, also to San Pedro de Macoris, providing
access to the airport and running along the coast paralleling the Mella high-
way and partly in competition with it, except that heavy truck traffic must
use the Mella highway (ADT 3,000); and (d) the Duarte highway, 263 km, through
the middle of the country, from Santo Domingo to La Vega, 125 km (ADT 7,000),
La Vega to Jose E. Bisono, 55 km (ADT 4,500) and Jose E. Bisono to Monte Cristi,
83 km (ADT 650); this is the most important road in the country, joining the
two most populous cities, Santo Domingo and Santiago, and crossing the richest
agricultural region, the Cibao Valley.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.03       In 1973, the Department of Transport of SEOPC conducted numerous
traffic counts as a preliminary step to the UNDP-financed study (para. 1.02).
LVI supplemented this information with origin-destination surveys and addi-
tional traffic counts. Acceptable data on traffic flows are now available for
about 2,000 km of the main road network (para. 2.08). SEOPC has received six
additional traffic counters and is now in a position to carry out a more
complete traffic count program.
3.04       The very limited traffic counts available for the period 1968-1973
(mainly on the Duarte highway) show an average traffic increase of about 12%
per annum. Gasoline and diesel oil sales grew, respectively, at 7.5% and



- 7 -
11.4% per annum from 1970 to 1973 (Table 1). As a major indicator of traffic
growth, gasoline sales dropped dramatically in 1974, but increased in 1975
to just under the levels existing in 1973 before the oil price increases.
3.05      The total vehicle fleet increased by about 12% per annum over the
last 12 years to reach 94,165 vehicles in 1974 (Table 2). It is charac-
terized by:
(a) a small number of buses (about 2,051) and a large number
of taxis (about 22,600); and
(b) a large number of pickups (about 15,000).
Since almost all buses are used for urban transit in Santo Domingo and
Santiago, all intercity passenger traffic has been handled by private or
public autos. The newly created bus service between Santo Domingo and
Santiago will improve the situation, and it is expected that the transport
sector study (para. 2.19) will contain recommendations for the development
of an efficient intercity bus service and, hence, discourage the use of
public autos in order to reduce their numbers. (Taxis are presently so
numerous in Santo Domingo that each taxi is authorized to work only every
other day.)
3.06      The origin-destination survey carried out by LVI indicates that
much could be done to improve transport fleet organization and, as a result,
to reduce transport costs. Road transport is largely carried out by indi-
vidual owner-operators, and competition among them is high. The load factor
of the truck is abnormally low since the trucks very often are not full even
in the "heavy" direction and are, in most cases, empty on their return trip.
Nevertheless, overloading has been observed on a small percentage of the
trucks, and this increased axle loading is sufficient to cause severe damage to
the roads. Moreover, it appears that the size of the vehicle used is not the
most economic one. Small pickups and vans carrying less than one-ton capacity
make up about 50% of the traffic on main roads. This proliferation of light
vehicles may be due to the fact that the customs duty applicable to jeeps and
light trucks (25%) 1/ is lower than that applicable to heavier buses (70%) and
to trucks (36%).  As a consequence of the above-mentioned problems, cars
and small vehicles represent more than 85% of the traffic on main roads.
This results in traffic congestion and artificially creates a need to upgrade
the highway network. The consultants for the transport sector study are
expected to analyze the traffic needs and recommend necessary steps to improve
the transport of goods and services and reduce the use of uneconomic pickups
and vans, if necessary.
C. Highway Planning and Financing
3.07      The highway investment program is prepared by the Planning Depart-
ment of SEOPC (para. 2.16). After approval of the program by the Office
1/ Law 532, Incentives to Agriculture.



-8-
of the Presidency, SEOPC is responsible for its execution. A major planning
obstacle is the absence of a transport data collection system; however, the
consultant (LVI) for the UNDP-financed highway rehabilitation and adminis-
tration study has carried out traffic counts for feasibility studies, in-
cluding those in this project, and these counts can be considered as the first
systematic traffic data collection in the Dominican Republic. Up to now, road
construction has been carried out without feasibility studies, and the UNDP-
financed study was a first attempt to use economic evaluation as a tool for
decision-making.
3.08      Since the recommendations from the proposed transport sector study
(para. 2.19) will not be available until late 1977, and because of the urgent
need to strengthen the SEOPC planning activities for both road maintenance
and investment and to continue the effort begun by LVI, the proposed project
includes technical assistance for a highway maintenance program which would
help prepare a road maintenance budget using procedures for proper planning.
The specialists would assist SEOPC and the proposed IDB technical assistance
(para. 2.19) in the establishment of an adequate road transport data collec-
tion system, including continuation of traffic counts and updating of the road
inventory, and would train local counterparts.
3.09      Highway revenues from road users in 1973 totaled about RD$ 58.9
million (US$58.9 million, Table 3). This is about 65% more than the amount
expended on highways in that year (Table 4). Although expenditures for high-
ways have increased at an average of 22% per annum, the increased level of
expenditure does not necessarily reflect the requirements since maintenance
needs are probably understated, having remained fairly static with construc-
tion and reconstruction increasing by about an average of 26% per annum.
D.   Highway Administration
3.10      SEOPC is responsible, inter alia, for:  programming, planning,
designing, building and maintaining primary and secondary roads; regulating
and policing highway traffic; and controlling the public railway system
(para. 2.16). It is divided into two Sub-Secretariats (see Chart): (a) one
Sub-Secretariat is responsible for road construction and maintenance, road
programming, planning and designing as well as the maintenance of port infra-
structure and some airports; and (b) the second Sub-Secretariat is responsible,
inter alia, for telecommunications and mail, for highway transit and for
operation of the public railways.
3.11      Under the UNDP-financed study (para. 1.02), LVI reviewed SEOPC's
responsibilities in the highway subsector and made recommendations regarding
reorganization of SEOPC, including the transfer of all highway-related func-
tions to the Sub-Secretariat responsible for roads (which was carried out by
decree in March 1976), and the reorganization of the Sub-Secretariat; an
increase from a 30- to a 40-hour work week and a corresponding increase
in salaries; and improvements to accounting and cost reporting procedures.



- 9 -
However, it is difficult to try to reorganize one Government agency respon-
sible for transport without attempting a total reorganization of all agencies
in the transport sector because of the complexity of the existing structure,
with overlapping responsibilities among agencies for roads, ports and high-
ways (para. 2.16). Such a restructuring should await the recommendations
of the proposed transport sector study.
3.12      Several weighing stations have been installed by SEOPC on the
Duarte, Mella and Sanchez highways over the last four years, and trucks
are inspected for compliance with the requirements for total weight of
vehicle, but not for axle load limit or vehicle dimensions. In the absence
of a clearly defined permissible axle load, the studies (para. 1.03) were
made using a 12-ton axle load for design purposes in recognition of the over-
loading of trucks currently using the country's roads. During negotiations,
the Government gave an assurance that it would define maximum vehicle axle
loads and dimensions by December 31, 1976 and would enforce such legisla-
tion as required, based on the recommendations of the consultants (para. 4.10).
E. Highway Engineering
3.13      SEOPC has prepared final designs for most primary and secondary road
projects and has supervised their construction. Several local consulting
firms are active in highway design.
3.14      SEOPC has a set of geometric standards for road construction which
takes terrain, soils and traffic into account; in general, these standards
are acceptable. Where major construction is to be carried out, the consult-
ants have been asked to develop specific design standards.
F. Highway Construction
3.15      In the past, highway construction was based on insufficient detailed
engineering, and there was little supervision; the results were poor--in many
cases, roads were constructed having inadequate base and sub-base construction
and poor alignments. During the last five years, the quality of construction
has improved substantially; acceptable detailed engineering is now being pre-
pared by the Planning Department of SEOPC, and improved supervision has
resulted in better road construction. However, the capabilities of the High-
way Department for bidding procedures and supervision could be strengthened.
3.16      SEOPC has undertaken construction by force account, on a limited
scale, for minor road improvements as well as for some feeder roads; however,
the largest percentage of construction work is carried out by local contrac-
tors, many of whom are affiliated with international firms. There are three
or four firms representing international firms capable of undertaking between
US$6 and US$7 million of work per year and more than ten internationally
affiliated as well as local firms which can handle civil works of about
US$3 million per year. The total capacity of the contracting industry is



- 10 -
about US$40 million per year. Contracts are normally awarded without compe-
titive bidding, prices are fixed by SEOPC, and selection of the construc-
tion firm is made by the Office of the Presidency.
G. Highway Maintenance
3.17      Routine maintenance is carried out by force account through four
districts and 18 ayudantias. 1/ Each district office and each ayudantia has
its own technical and administrative staff, equipment, workshops and service
facilities. The organizational structure for road maintenance appears
adequate.
3.18      The majority of the country's highways suffer either from a complete
lack of maintenance or a lack of proper maintenance. The maintenance budget
appears insufficient; the amounts allocated have been about half of what LVI's
analyses indicated were required (about US$600/km/year). About 70% of the
total maintenance expenditures go to pay some 7,000 persons working for SEOPC,
either on a full-time or a part-time basis. It is difficult to determine
the present true costs of maintenance since cost accounting procedures for
the field operations and workshops are inadequate. This problem is further
compounded by the lack of a well-defined maintenance program. There is an
irrational variation in expenditures for maintenance, and, therefore, during
negotiations, the Government gave an assurance that it would allocate not
less than US$4 million equivalent each fiscal year starting with FY1977.
This allocation would be revised, taking into account the recommendations of
the consultants (para. 4.10) in agreement with the Bank.
3.19      The workshops, including the main ones at Santo Domingo and
Santiago, are in very poor condition and need rehabilitation or reconstruc-
tion. The one at Santiago should be relocated. Preventive maintenance of
equipment on a systematic basis is not carried out, and equipment is generally
brought into the shops for routine maintenance only when repairs are required.
Spare parts control is practically non-existent, and it is common to see new
spare parts lying on the ground among old pieces of equipment. Cannibalizing
of working equipment as spares for other equipment is currently practiced due
to the lack of spare parts.
3.20      The present road maintenance equipment fleet consists of hetero-
geneous equipment of different makes, types, models and years and is inade-
quate for maintaining the present road system. A great part of the existing
equipment is old, out of order and needs to be replaced. The workshops are
not capable of handling normal equipment maintenance or even minor repair-
work; they need new workshop equipment and tools.
1/ The ayudantia is a subdivision of a road maintenance district, respon-
sible for maintenance of primary and secondary roads, normally limited
to a single province. The four road maintenance districts are located
at Santo Domingo, Santiago, La Vega and Azua.



- 11 -
3.21      Training is done almost entirely on-the-job, and little effort is
made to formalize the procedures or standards of work. There is no career
development system, and this situation creates a serious shortage of skilled
workers and managers. The situation for the Government agencies is further
aggravated by the fact that the few workers who become competent often move
to the private sector because of better opportunities and higher salaries.
3.22      LVI has indicated that SEOPC could carry out its maintenance
operations with substantially fewer personnel than it employs at present.
Any major reduction in a country where unemployment is high would be drastic,
but some labor/equipment mix commensurate with the current underemployment
and the need to improve the highway organization's efficiency would be investi-
gated under the proposed project (para. 4.08). During negotiations, the Bank
obtained an assurance from the Government that it would recruit no further
staff for the Highway Maintenance Department except to fill existing positions
for which present employees cannot be trained, and that this ban on recruit-
ment would be put into effect upon signing of the loan and remain in effect
until the Bank and the Government agree on the overall maintenance budget and
an appropriate labor force for road maintenance.
3.23      In order to improve the above situation, the proposed project con-
tains a highway maintenance program which includes provisions for maintenance
as indicated in paragraphs 4.06 to 4.08.
4. THE PROJECT
A.  General Description
4.01      The project consists of:
(i)  Civil works:
(a)  reconstruction of 19 km of a high priority road; and
(b) rehabilitation, widening, or reconstruction of bridges
on this road.
(ii)  A highway maintenance program comprising:
(a) purchase of highway maintenance equipment and workshop
tools and equipment;
(b) purchase of spare parts;
(c) rehabilitation or reconstruction of workshops; and
(d) improvement of road maintenance planning and procedures.



- 12 -
(iii) Consulting services for:
(a) supervision of item (1); and
(b) technical assistance for item (ii).
The project is expected to take about three years.
(i) Civil Works
4.02      The need for, and the economic feasibility of, rehabilitating and
reconstructing 1,200 km of roads were demonstrated in the IJNDP-financed
study prepared by LVI (para. 1.03); from this study, 389 km of roads were
selected for urgent rehabilitation or reconstruction. LVI indicated that
road construction practices in the Dominican Republic were inefficient and
costly. Although these practices had improved, SEOPC recognized the need to
further improve road design and construction practices, and had requested the
Bank to finance 189 km of these roads.
4.03      The Government, then, decided against a Bank loan for the whole
project, choosing to finance most of the roads with its own resources and
limited its request to include in the project one of the higher priority road
links, Puente Camu-San Francisco de Macoris, 19 km, contained in the original
project. Detailed engineering, including the preparation of bidding docu-
ments, was completed in April 1976 by Bank-approved consultants.
4.04      The reconstruction of these 19 km will consist of a new pavement
(asphalt concrete carpet 5 cm thick, base and sub-base, and shoulders)
following the present profile and alignment and minor corrections of curves
(Table 5). There are some nine bridges (about 190 m total) on this section
which require rehabilitation, widening or reconstruction. The cost per kilo-
meter for these works, including bridges, is RD$ 136,800 (Table 6). The
Government wishes to carry out the necessary works for bridges, as well as
their supervision, under separate contracts from the road element and has
agreed to finance the total cost of them; during negotiations, assurances were
obtained from the Government that the necessary rehabilitation, widening or
reconstruction of the bridges would be carried out by the time of the com-
pletion of the reconstruction of the road section in accordance with an agreed
schedule (Annexes I and 2). The actual starting dates, for both components,
are dependent on the signing of the Loan Agreement. It would be a condition of
disbursement that no withdrawals would be approved for the road reconstruction
element until the borrower has furnished bridge designs and specifications
which meet those of the road section to the Bank.
4.05      The Government prefers an equipment-intensive mix for projects of
this type because of the higher financial costs and lower quality work which
it has experienced with labor-intensive techniques. In the Bank's opinion,
the urgency of the reconstruction requires an equipment-intensive mix.
However, the Government's policy for reducing the high unemployment rate has
been to provide temporary employment in Government agencies such as SEOPC,



- 13 -
and it is expected that routine maintenance of the roads will be carried out
by more labor-intensive methods than previously. The proposed project will
help to determine the appropriate labor-intensive methods (para. 4.08).
(ii) Highway Maintenance Program
4.06      LVI recommended, and the proposed project includes, a maintenance
program which would require purchase of new maintenance equipment to replace
old equipment in order to bring the fleet up to its previous acceptable
operating level. LVI also recommended the procurement of equipment spare
parts to rehabilitate the useful units of the existing fleet and the purchase
of workshop tools and equipment to provide the necessary restoration and level
of maintenance required for the fleet. Therefore, purchase of spare parts is
also included in the project. The SEOPC budget devoted to materials and spare
parts would be increased within the framework of the overall improvement
program for maintenance procedures and budgeting (para. 4.08). During nego-
tiations, the lists of equipment, equipment spares, workshop equipment and
tools were agreed between the Government and the Bank.
4.07      The two main district workshops, Santo Domingo and Santiago, are
in poor condition. The workshop at Santo Domingo can be rehabilitated;
the one at Santiago is in the city and should be relocated and reconstructed.
For the immediate future, the workshop at La Vega, about 30 km from Santiago,
can substitute for that at Santiago, but requires some rehabilitation. In
general, the ayudantias 1/ require some rehabilitation, and some of them
require relocation to provide more adequate facilities for the consultants'
proposed maintenance program. The Government and the Bank defined the nature
of the work to be carried out in all the workshops, based on engineering
designs submitted to the Bank for review by the Government, and it is a
condition of disbursement for the maintenance equipment that the Government
would complete the necessary work for the workshops (other than the Santiago
workshop) and that adequate progress on the works has been made for the
Santiago workshop, It is expected that the works would be completed within
three months after signing of the loan agreement, except for the workshop at
Santiago, which would be completed one year from that date (Annex 3).
4.08      LVI reviewed the Highway Department's maintenance procedures and
planning and made recommendations for the improvement of road maintenance
(paras. 3.17-3.22). The proposals for an improved maintenance program are
satisfactory and are the basis for the Government's improvement of its pro-
cedures for road maintenance and planning. The specific proposals for im-
proved maintenance planning and procedures are set out in the terms of
reference for required technical assistance, which were agreed with the
Government during negotiations (Annex 4). Furthermore, during negotiations,
the Bank obtained an assurance from the Government that it would determine,
not later than July 31, 1977, or such other date as shall be agreed with the
1/   See footnote to paragraph 3.17 on page 10.



- 14 -
Bank, the appropriate combination of labor and equipment for maintenance of
its roads and the necessary increases in the maintenance budget, taking into
account the recommendations of the consultants and in agreement with the
Bank.
(iii)  Consulting Services
4.09      Consulting services in the proposed project would be provided, on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, for:
(a)  supervision of rehabilitation of the 19 km of high priority
road (Annex 5). The estimated number of man-months required
to carry out this assignment is 100, at an average cost of
RD$ 2,000 per man-month excluding contingencies (a prorated
average for a wide range of technical expertise); and
(b)  technical assistance for the maintenance program.  The esti-
mated number of man-months required to carry out this assign-
ment is 80, at an average cost of RD$ 7,500 per month excluding
contingencies. The latter figure is high because of the spe-
cialized nature of the maintenance consultants who are expected
to be hired from abroad.
4.10      The project provides for the financing of technical assistance for
the highway maintenance proRram, Renerally along the lines recommended by
LVI, which would include counterpart training. The terms of reference (Annex
4), the specific expertise required, and the timing of the experts' services
(Annex 6), were agreed with the Government during negotiations. It was also
agreed that the employment of consultants for technical assistance is a
condition of effectiveness of the loan. In order that a local followup team
might be ready to take over the full equipment maintenance load at the end of
the assistance program, an assurance was obtained from the Government during
negotiations that it would assign competent local counterpart staff in a
timely fashion.
B.   Cost Estimates and Financing
4.11      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$8.2 million, in-
cluding contingency allowances; the proposed loan would finance US$5.0 mil-
lion equivalent of the estimated foreign exchange component of US$5.3 million
equivalent. Costs were estimated on a unit cost basis for the reconstruction
and maintenance equipment. Costs for the maintenance program were estimated
on a unit cost based on the LVI study and brought up to date as of May 1976.
Costs for consulting services were based on the LVI study. Costs for the
maintenance program were based on the experience of the LVI study. A summary
of project cost is shown on the next page.
4.12      A quantity contingency allowance of 10% of the construction costs
for reconstruction has been included and is considered adequate for this



- 15 -
RD$Million2/
Local        Foreign                  Bank
Currency     Currency      Total  Particiation
Amount(%
l.   Civil Works
a.   Reconstruction of a Road                  0.8           1.2          1.9     1.1 (58)
b.   Rehabilitation, Widening,
or Reconstruction of Bridges              0.3          0.2          0       0.0 (0)
Sub-Total                       7            1.3         2.4      1.1
2.  Maintenance Program
a.   Purchase of Maintenance
Equipment and Workshop
Tools and Equipment                       0.3          2.6          2.9      2.6 (90)
b.   Purchase- of Spare Parts                  0.1           0.3         0.4      0.3 (85)
c.   Rehabilitation  or Reconstruction
of Workshops                              o.5          0.1          0.6     0.0 (O)
d.   Improvement of RDad Maintenance
Planning  and Procedures                  (cost included under 3(c) below) -
Sub-Total                      O.9           77          3.9      2.9
3.   Consulting Services
a.   Supervision of Reconstruction of a
Road (Item l(a) above)                    0.1          0.1          0.2      0.1 (50)
b.   Supervision of rehabilitation, Widening
or Reconstruction of Bridges              0.2/ 
(Item l(b) above)                                      010          010     0.0 (O)
c.   Technical Assistance (Item 2 above)       0.2           004 o.6              0.4 (67)
Sub-Total                      0.3           0.5         0.8      0   (63)
Total Base Costs                     2.3          4.8          7.1     4.5 (63)
4.   Contingencies-_
a.   Reconstruction of a Road
(i)   Physical (10%) of 1(a) above        0.1           0.1          0.2     0.1
(ii)  Price (21%) of 1(a) above           0.2           0.2         0o4      0.2
b.   Rehabilitation, Widening or
feconstruction of Bridges
(i)   Physical (10%) of 1(b) above         0.1          0o/          O.l     0.0
(ii)  Price (21%) of 1(b) above           00.1          0.0          0.1     0.0
c.   Maintenance Equipment, Equipment
Spare  Parts, Workshops Tools and            2'
Equipment (5%) of 2(a) &  (b) above4/   00-            0.1          0.1     0.1
d.   Rehabilitation or Reconstruction of
Workshops (10%) of 2(c) above             0.1           O.OJ/       o.1      o.o
e.   Consulting Services of 3 above               2/.
(Local 1I%; Foreign 11%)                  .01                       0.1     0.1
Sub-Total                                                1 .1    0.5
TOTAL                                2.9          5.3          8.2     5.0 (61)
j Because of the parity of the US$ and RD$, costs expressed in US$ yould be identical
numerically.
/ Less than RD$ 50,000.
/ Based on CPS guidelines.
Based on expected short procurement lead time.



- 16 -
type of civil works. A further contingency of 21% has been included for price
escalation of construction costs on the basis of an increase of 6.5% in prices
in the second half of 1976 and 12% per year thereafter. A 5% price contingency
has been used for maintenance equipment, equipment spares and workshop tools
and equipment. A 10% physical contingency has been included for the rehabi-
litation or reconstruction of workshops. A 14% price contingency for local
costs and an 11% price contingency for foreign costs have been included for
consulting services to cover possible price increases of these services during
the project execution period. Price escalation contingencies have been
estimated from the time of negotiations (May 1976) until completion of the
project (June 30, 1979).
4.13      The foreign exchange for the reconstruction of the 19 km has been
estimated at 58%, based on the assumption that construction would be carried
out by foreign firms in joint venture with local firms or by subcontracting
part of the works to local firms. For the purchase of maintenance equipment
and workshop tools and equipment, a foreign component of 90% has been used.
Equipment spares, which are expected to be purchased locally, have an esti-
mated foreign exchange cost of 85%. The foreign exchange component for con-
sulting services has been estimated at 63% on the basis of the expected mix
of local and foreign consultants.
4.14      The total estimated foreign exchange cost of the project is US$5.3
million equivalent. The Bank would finance US$5.0 million equivalent (94%
of the total) and the Government would finance the remainder (US$0.3 million
equivalent) of the estimated foreign exchange component as well as the local
costs; an assurance was obtained from the Government during negotiations that
adequate funds would be provided to meet the local costs and the foreign
exchange component not covered by the proposed loan.
C.   Execution
4.15      Execution of the project would be the responsibility of SEOPC,
with the Directorate of Roads in charge of reconstruction and of the mainte-
nance program.
D.   Procurement
4.16      The prequalification of bidders, evaluation and tendering is
being carried out in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines"; the Government
would abide by the Bank's "Guidelines" and accept international competitive
bidding for civil works to be financed by the Bank (para. 3.16). Civil
works contracts would be awarded on a unit price basis after international
competitive bidding. The procedures for this were discussed and agreed
with the Government during negotiations.
4.17      The procurement of maintenance equipment, equipment spares and
workshop tools and equipment would be made after international competitive



- 17 -
bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines", except that contracts for
groups of spare parts for maintenance equipment involving expenditures up
to US$10,000 for each group, not exceeding US$200,000 equivalent in total,
might be awarded directly to the dealers of the spare parts. This is par-
ticularly important because the Government should encourage the local avail-
ability of spare parts for its maintenance equipment. This procedute would
also ensure that the Government would not have to procure unneeded equipment
spares. These procedures were agreed during negotiations.
4.18      Consultants would be selected in accordance with normal Bank
procedures. During negotiations, these procedures and terms of reference
were agreed with the Government (Annexes 4 and 5).
E.   Disbursements
4.19      For civil works, disbursements would be made on the basis of 58%
of the total expenditure for civil works, excluding bridges. Disbursement
for maintenance equipment and workshop tools and equipment would be made
for 100% of the foreign exchange cost; for spare parts purchased locally,
an estimate of the actual foreign exchange component is 85%, and this
percentage would be used for disbursement. The disbursements for consulting
services would be 63% of total expenditures (representing foreign exchange
component). The schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Annex 7.
Loan funds, if any, remaining at the completion of the project may be used
to finance items related to the project, to be agreed between the Government
and the Bank.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
5.01      Road transportation has been aggravated by an accelerated deteriora-
tion of the highway network, due mainly to lack of, and improper, maintenance.
Although construction practices have improved, the capabilities of the High-
way Department for bidding procedures and supervision could be strengthened.
5.02      To overcome these deficiencies, the Government has requested that
the proposed project include an important road for reconstruction and a main-
tenance program based on LVI's recommendations.
5.03      The economic evaluation made for the road (which would represent
about 37% of the estimated project cost (excluding price contingencies)) gave
an economic return (ER) of 29%; the maintenance program (55% of the estimated
project cost (excluding price contingencies)) was made based on available
data. This analysis gave an economic return in excess of 20%. The estimated
ER for both elements is 24%. Benefits for consulting services (8%) for the
maintenance program were not quantified.



- 18 -
B. Reconstruction of the Puente Camu-San Francisco de Macoris Road and Bridges
5.04      This road lies in an area of important agricultural (particularly
rice) and beef production. It leads to San Francisco de Macoris, a city of
44,000 inhabitants and the capital of the province of Duarte. While agri-
cultural produce destined for export will exit through Salcedo to the port
at Puerto Plata, the link to Puente Camu is part of the road joining the
region to the Carretera Duarte and Santo Domingo. The present high level of
traffic (2,092 ADT) is an indication of the importance of the road to the
regional and national economy.
(i) Traffic
5.05      In spite of the deterioration of the Puente Camu-San Francisco de
Macoris Road, traffic has continued to grow; the consultants' 1973 estimate
was some 1,600 vehicles per day (vpd). Counts taken in March 1976 by SEOPC
gave an average of 2,092 vpd. This would indicate that traffic is growing
about 11% per annum average rate. LVI estimates show that traffic on the
road link could be represented by an annual average growth rate of 6.5%
per annum (Table 7). This rate seems reasonable, considering, inter alia,
the uncertainty of future petroleum prices, and it has been used in the
economic evaluation.
(ii) Benefits
5.06      Quantifiable benefits from the proposed reconstruction would con-
sist of savings in vehicle operating costs. These benefits were calculated
for the total projected traffic throughout the economic life of the proposed
investment, beginning in 1979, the scheduled opening year for the proposed
works, and extending through 1998 inclusive. Vehicle operating cost savings
would accrue primarily to commercial vehicles and other road users; however,
since the implemented project would tend to reduce the rate of increase in
road transport cost, the general public is also expected to benefit.
5.07      The operating costs for the five vehicle categories considered,
and for the levels of surface condition, were calculated by means and methods
which are standard for highway projects. Time savings for passenger vehicle
driver, passengers, and equipment were not considered, nor was the possible
reduction in the number of accidents. Operating unit costs are shown in
Table 8.
5.08      The existing 19-km road has an intermittently rough surface, full
of potholes, with base, pavement width (6 m) and shoulders (less than 1 m)
insufficient for modern axle loadings and traffic levels. Due to the low
grade, the road is often flooded by rains and becomes impassable. The
reconstruction of the road, involving minor changes in alignment, base better-
ment, higher level and 5 cm of bituminous concrete carpet, would cost RD$ 2.5
million, 1/ including bridges, resulting in an appropriate design on this flat
and straight road section.
1/   The estimated construction cost prepared by SEOPC was increased by 10%
for physical contingencies and by 8% for supervision; this cost was
then reduced 9% to exclude the estimate for local taxes.



- 19 -
5.09      The consultants (LVI) stated in their report (1974) that the Puente
Camu-San Francisco de Macoris section had a road surface type of between 2 and
3 based on a scale of 1 to 6. Road surface type 1 was described as being "new
or relatively new asphalt or concrete surface". Type 6 was described as a
pavement completely or partially destroyed, leaving a very rough bumpy surface.
In March 1976, the Bank and SEOPC staff reevaluated the section, using the
same criteria described by the consultant. The evaluation of the type was
more between 4 and 5--the road showed no signs of maintenance, and a recent
flood had completely destroyed some sections.
(iii) Economic Returns
5.10      For the computation of the economic return for the road, the initial
investment cost was taken as the estimated reconstruction cost, together with
the contingency allowance for quantity increase (10%), right-of-way, where
applicable, and supervision, less all taxes (RD$ 2.5 million). Reconstruction
was assumed to commence in 1976 and be completed by 1978.
5.11      The ER was computed on the basis of the full stream of benefits
netted of initial investment and maintenance costs. The full return, given in
Table 9, shows that the reconstruction works would have an ER of 29%. Sensi-
tivity analyses were applied to the two investment costs by decreasing and
increasing the traffic growth rate by 50%. The lowest ER, 19%, was for the
25% increase in construction costs and a 50% decrease in traffic (Table 9).
The ER is not particularly sensitive to the initially low traffic growth
rate assumed.
5.12      These tests, and the conservative assumption that there would be no
further deterioration of the road without the project, indicate that the in-
vestment for reconstructing the road element is economically justified.
Also, although the area serviced by the road is developed, some increased
production can be expected with the reduction of vehicle operating costs.
This increased production is considered marginal and would not significantly
increase the economic feasibility of the project road. Because of the
marginal nature of this production and the limited effect on the project
road's feasibility, these benefits have not been considered in the quantita-
tive analysis.
C.   The Maintenance Program
5.13      The roads in the Dominican Republic have received little or no
maintenance over the past several years; because of this, they are deterior-
ating at an increasing pace. Maintenance equipment is almost non-existent,
and the workshops are run-down and poorly equipped. Maintenance practices
are poor, and the maintenance organization, although adequately structured,
is weak. On the other hand, many roads were originally underdesigned for
the traffic that they now carry or have deteriorated to such a point that
they cannot be properly maintained and must instead be rehabilitated. The
consultants' (LVI) report agrees that many sections of roads do require
rehabilitation, but that this need is mainly due to poor maintenance prac-
tices in the past.



- 20 -
5.14      In 1973, SEOPC carried out numerous traffic counts in connection
with the study financed by UNDP. LVI completed this information with a few
origin-destination surveys and additional traffic counts. These studies
showed that about 90% of the country's road network had less than 3,000
vehicles per day and some 50% had less than 500 vehicles per day.
5.15      The very limited traffic counts available for the period 1968-1973
(mainly for the Duarte highway) show an average traffic increase of about
12% per year. During approximately the same period (1968-1972), the vehicle
fleet grew at about 12% per annum (Table 2), gasoline sales at 7.5% per annum
and diesel sales at about 11.4% per annum (Table 1).
5.16      Because the Bank's knowledge of actual road conditions is limited
to some 2,000 km of the 10,700 km of the network and the traffic on these
2,000 km, only a rough estimate of the potential savings accruing from improved
maintenance is possible.  The analysis, assuming a 10% saving on fuel only
with improved surface conditions, indicates that the savings accruing from the
investment for the new maintenance equipment, equipment spares, workshop tools
and equipment, plus the estimated annual costs for maintenance (about RD$ 6.0
million per annum), would have an ER in excess of 20%. This is a conservative
estimate considering that increased maintenance would reduce the need for the
high cost of future rehabilitation. Consulting services are considered justi-
fied since they would permit increased efficiency in highway maintenance
planning and administration and in the necessary improvement and maintenance
of the highway network.
5.17      In addition to the quantifiable benefits, important indirect bene-
fits are also expected. These comprise mainly social and political benefits,
not directly associated with the project, in other sectors of the economy,
occasioned by improved transportation over the better maintained roads. The
improved transportation would have a positive effect upon integrating many
areas difficult to reach because of the current poor condition of the roads
and would also improve communications, particularly on the Puente Camu-San
Francisco de Macoris Road during the rainy season when much of the road is
impassable due to heavy flooding.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(a)  lists of equipment, equipment spares, workshop equipment and
tools (para. 4.06);
(b)  specific proposals to be included in the project for improved
maintenance planning and procedures (para. 4.08);
(c)  terms of reference, specific expertise required and the timing
of the services for the technical assistance for the highway
maintenance program (para. 4.10 and Annex 6);



- 21 -
(d) procedures for awarding the civil works contract (para. 4.16);
(e) procedures for procurement of maintenance equipment, equipment
spares, and workshop tools and equipment (para. 4.17); and
(f) selection procedures and terms of reference for consulting
services (para. 4.18).
6.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
on the following:
(a) that a transport sector study would be carried out by
December 31, 1977 (para. 2.19);
(b) that it would enact, by December 31, 1976, regulations
defining maximum vehicle axle loads and dimensions and
would ensure permanent and consistent enforcement of
these regulations (para. 3.12);
(c) that it would allocate not less than the equivalent of
US$4 million to its road maintenance budget per fiscal year,
starting in fiscal year 1977, until an appropriate budget
has been established (para. 3.18);
(d) that it would not recruit any further staff for the Highway
Maintenance Department of SEOPC until an appropriate labor
force and budget for road maintenance has been established
(para. 3.22);
(e) that the necessary rehabilitation, widening or reconstruction
of bridges on the Puente Camu-San Francisco de Macoris road
section would be carried out by the time of the completion
of the reconstruction of that road section (para. 4.04 and
Annex 6);
(f) that it would determine, not later than July 31, 1977, the
proper combination of labor and equipment necessary for
maintenance of its roads and the necessary increases in the
maintenance budget (para. 4.08);
(g) that it would assign competent local counterpart staff in a
timely fashion (para. 4.10); and
(h) that adequate funds would be provided to meet the local
costs and the foreign exchange component not covered by
the proposed loan (para. 4.14).
6.03      The following are conditions for the project:
(a) a condition of effectiveness is that the Borrower has
employed consultants to assist in carrying out the
maintenance program (para. 4.10);



- 22 -
(b) conditions of disbursement are:
(i) no withdrawals would be approved for the road
reconstruction element of the project until the
Borrower has furnished to the Bank designs and
specifications of the bridges for that road
section (para. 4.04);and
(ii)  no withdrawals would be approved for maintenance
equipment, workshop tools and equipment, and spare
parts until the Borrower has furnished satisfactory
evidence to the Bank that the workshops (other than
Santiago) have been rehabilitated or reconstructed;
and that satisfactory progress in the construction
works for the Santiago workshop has been made (para.
4.07).
6.04      Subject to the above, the project constitutes a suitable basis for
Bank lending in a total amount of US$5.0 million equivalent on standard Third
Window terms.
June 21, 1976



TABLE 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROlJECT
Importation (1967-1971) and Sales (1970-1975)
of Gasoline andfDiesel Oil
(000's Barrels)
Importation /1
Gasoline     Diesel Oil
1 967         1 ,443            723
1968          1,505             838
1969          1,707           1,035
1970          1,619           1,001
1971          2,003           1,664
Average
Annual
Growth
Rate          1967-1971 Gasoline:  8.5% p.a. Diesel Oil: 23% p.a.
Sales /2
Gasoline     Diesel Oil 13
1970          1,634              92
1971          1,796             338
1972          1,894             397
1973          2,181             450
1974          1,411             n.a.
1975          2,096             n.a.
Average
Annual
Growth
Rate          1970-1 973 Gasoline:  7.5% p.a. Diesel Oil:  11 .4i  /4
197)4-1975 Gasoline:  48.5% p.a. Diesel Oil:  n.a.
/1  Shell-Government owned refinery started operations in 1970. Statistics on
imports by product were not available after 1971.
/2  Sales at retail station level.
D3  Does not include diesel oil wholesale sales.
/4  Growth rate more accurately reflects sales to diesel oil powered vehicles as
other figure (23i p.a.) includes imports for the power plants, the ferronickel
plant (Falconbridge) and sugar refinprips onprations.
n.a. = not available.
Source: SEOPC, Refineria Dominicana de Petr6oleo S.A. and Mission Estimates.
Maye 1 976



TABLE 2
DOM1N IGAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet Registr ation - 1 962-1 974 /1
Passenger                     Trucks and
Cars      Jeeps    Buses    Pickups        Total
1962        14,044      1,470      398       6,968      22,880
1963        19,680      1 ,367     546       8,388      29,981
1 964       26,o4o      1 ,501     899      10,633      39,073
1965        28,982      1,213      933       8,283       39,417
1966        25,334      1,254      382      11,226       38,856
1967        26,888      1 ,051     973      12,403      41,315
1968        29,033      1,129    1,014      14,892      46,128
1969        31,351      1,563    1,103      16,567      50,584
1970        38,010.    1,323    1,146       19,285      63,516
1 971       43,o89      1 ,703    1,306     22,497       68,595
1972        48,736      1,788    1,332      22,707       74,563
1973        54,657      1,911    1,485      25,496      83,549
1974        61,652 12   2,434    2,051      28,028       94,165
1   These figures are the only available on vehicle fleet.
2  Public - 22,587, Private - 39,065
Source: Direccion General de Renta Interna and SEOPC.
May 1976



TABLE 3
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Road User Charges - 1_69-1974
(Millions of RD$)
1969     1970     1971     1972     1973     1974
Tag Fee                     1 .1     1.4      1 .6     0.7      n.a.     n.a.
Vehicle Transit             3.8      4.7      5.1      6.2      7.9      8.9
Driving Licenses            0.4      0.4      0.7      0.8      0.7      0.8
Toll                        -        -        -        1.1      1.8      1.8
Fines                       -        -        0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1
Gasoline Tax               14.2     13.5     16.7    18.4    25.2        25.1 (E)
Diesel Tax                  2.4      2.3      3.9      4.2      5.3      8.0 (E)
Import tax on vehicles      6.5      9.8    11 .0    12.0    18.0 (E) 23.0 (E)
TOTAL               28.4    32.1      39.1     43.5    58.9      67.7
(E) - Estimated
n.a. - not available
Source:  SEOPC, ONP and Bank Estimates.
May 1976



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Highway Expenditures - 1968-1973 /1
(millions of RD$)
1968     %    1969     %    1970     %    1971     %    1972           1 1973    _
Construction and
Reconstruction   8.3   62.4  10.7   54.3  14.4  62.3  22.1   66.8   23.9   72.0   26.3   73.7
Maintenance        2.9  21 .8   4.o   20.3   3.8  16.5    3.6  10.3    2.4    7.2    3.2    9.0
Feeder Road  2    1.5  11 .3   2.1   10.7    2.5  10.8    2.6    7.8    1 .8    5.4    1.9    5.3
Bridges            o.6    4.5    2.9  14-7    2.4  10.4    4.8  14.5    5.1  15.4    4.3  12.0
TOTAL       13.3 100.0   19.7  100.0   23.1  100.0   33.1  100.0   33.2  100.0   35.7  100.0
L  Includes "Administration".
/2 Separate budget to the Direcci6n General de Caminos Vecinales.
Source: SEOPC
M
March 1 976                                                                                                   t



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Standards for the Puente Camu-San Francisco de Macoris Road (19.0 '-m)
Standard
Axle
Width   Width       Width      Minimnum            Stopping       Type          Load
Design     of       of         of      Radium of Maximum    light           of           Pavement
Speed        Roadwa   Surfacing Shoulders  Curvature   Grade   Distance   Surface        Design
(n)      (         (m)        (m)        (m)     --           (                         m tons
80.00   10.60     6.60       2.00       200.00    4.00      130.00   Asphalt concrete    12.00
carpet 5cm thick
Source: SEOPC
May 1976



TABLE 6
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A RDAD MAINTIVANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Puente Camu-San Francisco de Macoris (19.0 1km)
Cost per Kilometer
(RD$ 000)
Length     Construction
km          Cost /1       Cost/km
Puente Camu - San Francisco de Macoris   19.0         2,600.0          136.8
Li  Financial cost of road including cost for necessary bridge betterment
works, plus physical contingency (lO%).
Source: SEOPC
June 1976



TABLE 7
DOMI1TICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD MAINTEN1ANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Average Daily Traffic and Forecast on Puente Camu-San Francisco de Macoris Road
(1973-1998)
Annual Average
Lth  /973L     1/28                    Growth Rate
Length      1973  1976/    97          1988    1998      1976-1998
km)                  --)
19.0      1,600   2,092   2,527   4,454   8,360            6.5
/1  Actual traffic counts.  Actual growth is about 11% p.a., from October 1973
traffic counts to those taken in March 1976.
/2  Expected opening year.
Source: (1) Dominican Republic - "Highway Rehabilitation and
Adrainistration Study" Lamarre Valois International, Ltd., 1974.
(2) SEOPC March 1 976
May 1976



TABLE 8
DOM:IN CAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD MAINT12NANCE AND RECONSTRUCTICN PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs Breakdown, RD$/1000 Km  /1
Guagua   Light   Heavy
Item                 Car       Bus    Pickup    Truck    Truck
Speed (kph)                  90         80        80        80       70
Depreciation                 15.3       97.8      18.1      26.8    54.0
Interest                      5.4       31.0       6.5       8.8     18.2
Tires                         3.1       23.6       2.0      10.9    19.0
Fuel                         16.4       26.8      18.4      31.8    28.3
Oil                           0.7        1.1       0.8       0.8      1.1
Maintenance                   8.6       48.0      11 .9     32.7    50.0
Others (Insurance, etc.)      7.2       54.2       7.8      29.0    42.8
Sub-Total                 56.7      282.5      65.5    140.8    213.4
Crew Wages                   11 .1 /2    25.0     12.5      18.8    27.1
Total                     67.8      307.5      78.0    159.6   240.5
A2 On good paved roads in level terrain, at optimum operating speed.
/2 For those cars used as taxis.
Source: Consultants (Lamarre Valois International, Ltd).
September 1974



TABLE 9
DO1vLaNICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis of Economic Returns for the Road Link
Puente Camu - San Francisco de Macoris (19.0 kin)
Economic Return
for Road Link with                 Marginal Economic
Estimated Better-                Return of Bridge
ment Costs for Bridges              Betterment
Estimated
Economic
Construci4on
Cost-'2
(OOOts)            RD$2,521    RD$3,2630                 RD85h3
First Yej
Return"               28%         22'o                   10%
Basic ERW               29%         2 4                    1 3%
Low Growth/             24%         l9 
High Growthy            34h%        29%
2/ The estimated construction cost prepared by SEOPC was increased by 10% for physi-
cal contingencies and by 8% for supervision; this cost was then reduced by 9%
to exclude the estimate for local taxes.
g/ Estimated Economic Construction cost plus 25%.
y/ The First Year Return is based on the estimate for basic traffic growth (6.5% p.a.).
v   The Basic Economic Return is based on a 6.5% p.a. growth rate of traffic estimated
for this road link by the consultants, Lamarre Valois, International.
i/  The Low Growth ER is 3.25% p.a. growth for traffic.
i/  The High Growth ER is 9.75% p.a. growth for traffic.
Source: SEOPC and mission estimates
June 1976



ANNEX 1
DOMINICAN REPUdLIC
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Time Schedule 1/ for Bridge Construction
1.   Bridge design                                                 120 days
2.   Bank review of specifications                                 15 days
3.   Advertisement for works and prequalifications                 30 days
4.   Review of qualifications                                      15 days
5.   Invitation to bid to prequalified firms                       30 days
6.   Bids received
7.   Review of tenders                                             15 days
8.   Award of contract                                             30 days
9.   Mobilization
10.  Construction                                                  18 months
26i months
/ Dates are additive and start immediately after signing of Loan Agreement.
June 1976



ANNEX, 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Time Schedule 21for Road Construction
Duration
1.   Advertisement for works and
prequalificatior                                             60 days
2.   Review of qualifications                                     15 days
3.  Invitations to bid to
prequalified firms                                           45 days
4.   Bids received
5.   Review of tenders                                            30 days
6.   Award of contract                                            30 days
7.   Mobilization                                                 30 days
6.   Construction                 )
Earth Movement              )
Cuulverts                    )                               24 months
Pavements                    )
Completion of Construction )
32 months
/ Dates are additive and start immediately after signing of Loan Agreement.
June 1976



ANNEX 3
DOKINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Time Schedule for Workshop Construction
These works will be carried out by force account by SEOPC in a term
of three months from date of signing of loan agreement with the exception of
Santiago workshop which will be carried out in one year from that date.
June 1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
1976-1977 Highway Maintenance Services
Terms of Reference
I. Introduction
1.        In 1973, the Government of the Dominican Republic commissioned a
study and definition of the most urgent highway rehabilitation needs with a
simultaneous examination of the highway administration. The consultants
reviewed about 2,000 km of primary and secondary roads (of the country's some
10,000 km), including basic economic indicators, traffic data, road inventory
results and construction costs. From these data the consultants developed
a prima facie justified four-year road rehabilitation program. Based upon
further economic and technical feasibility studies, they selected about 300 km
of roads for immediate rehabilitation. Concurrent with this, they reviewed
the need for workshops, maintenance equipment and spare parts and identified
the more urgently required equipment and spare parts and the present adminis-
trative structure of the Highway Department, its present practices and pro-
cedures and submitted recommendations for their improvement. Their report,
"Highway Rehabilitation and Administration Study" January 1974, contained the
results and recommendations of this effort and forms the basis for the proposed
highway maintenance services.
II. Objectives
2.        The purpose of this assignment is to assist the Government in
implementing a highway maintenance program. To this end, the services shall
provide:
(a) Advice and assistance to the Secretaria de Estado de Obras
Publicas y Communicacions (SEOPC), at all levels of the
Sub-Secretary, in the organization, administration and
technical development of a highway maintenance program
including:
(i) Purchase of highway maintenance equipment and equipment
spares, and workshop tools and equipment;
(ii) Rehabilitation and reconstruction of workshops; and
(iii) Improvement of road maintenance procedures and planning;
(b) Training of SEOPC administrative and tecbnical personnel in
all operations related to highway maintenance.
3.        The highway maintenance program and training activities for which
assistance and advisory services are to be provided shall be based on
recommendations given in the report to the Government entitled "Highway
Rehabilitation and Administration Study" dated January 1974 and prepared by
the consultants, Lamarre Valois International, Limited, Canada.



ANNEX a
Page 2
III. Scope of Consulting Services
A. General
4.        The assistance, advisory services and training to be provided by
the consultants shall cover routine, periodic and emergency maintenance
activities.
5.        The consultants shall perform all engineering, technical analyses,
financial investigations, administrative and training services, and related
work herein described, as required to attain the objectives given in
Section II hereof. In the conduct of this work the consultants shall
cooperate fully with the Government, which is to provide the data, services
and facilities outlined in Section IV hereof; the consultants shall be
solely responsible, however, for the analysis and interpretation of all
data received and for the findings, conclusions and recommendations contained
in their reports.
6.        All reports, specifications, instructions and other documents to
be prepared by the consultants and all ccrrespondence relating to the services
shall be in Spanish with English translations and the metric system shall
be used.
B. Advisory Services
7.        The consultants shall provide advisory services in the fields of
administration, traffic engineering, highway engineering and mechanical
engineering as described below:
1. Administration
8.        (a)  the preparation of a five-year (1977-1981) maintenance program
with the necessary budgetary requirements by year recommending,
inter alia, an appropriate labor-equipment mix considering
the country's current high unemployment rate;
(b) the administrative work to be carried out by the maintenance
organization including the design of forms, preparation of
instructions, and keeping of inventories and registers;
(c) budgeting, efficiency measurement and project control;
(d) the establishment of a system of cost accounting for the Sub-
Secretary of Roads, to provide cost data for the various types
of maintenance for specific highways, including equipment and
workshop operating costs;
(e) the purchasing and the issuing of equipment and materials
and in the installation of a system of stores accounting;
(f) the establishment of staff requirements, of personnel histories,
and of procedures for the recruiting, selection and training
of personnel;



ANNEX h
Page 3
(g) determining the location, layout, staffing and organization
of the district and ayudantias offices and workshops;
(h) the preparation of a manual on proper road maintenance practices
for all levels of staff engaged in road maintenance; and
(i) the preparation of a procedure manual covering the maintenance
operations for the equipment fleet.
2. Traffic Engineering
9.         In the field of traffic engineering, the consultants shall advise
and assist in:
(a) the implementation of a traffic counting system for the
country's highway network and origin-destination surveys;
(b) the analysis and evaluation of the traffic data to be collected;
and
(c) the establishment of a maximum vehicle axle load for the
country and a system for the control of vehicle axle loads,
gross vehicle weights and vehicle dimensions and safety
devices.
3. Highway Engineering
10.        In the field of highway engineering, the consultants shall advise
and assist in:
(a) the preparation of plans and procedures for carrying out a
highway maintenance program; and
(b) the establishment of methods and instructions for highway
maintenance.
4. Mechanical Engineering
11.        In the field of mechanical engineering, the consultants shall:
(a) prepare specifications for the purchase of highway maintenance
equipment, spare parts and tools to be financed under the
Loan Agreement;
(b) prepare contract documents for the items mentioned in (a)
above suitable for procurement or international competitive
bidding;
(c) assist in the prequalification of suppliers, if required, and
in inviting tenders;



ANNEX 4s
Page 4
(d) assist in the evaluation of tenders received and make
recommendations for the placing of orders;
(e) assist in supervising (1) the assembly and/or installation of
new (mobile and stationary) equipment, (2) the acceptance of
these items from suppliers and (3) the training of operators
and mechanics by suppliers;
(f) advise on the appropriate utilization of workshops and ware-
houses, check and supply, when required, all necessary data
on equipment and machinery characteristics (power, weights,
etc.) and suggest, if required, appropriate layouts for
workshops and warehouses for highway maintenance;
(g) prepare instructions for and assist in the carrying out of
maintenance and repair work of highway maintenance equipment;
(h) assist in assessing spare part requirements for the existing
highway maintenance equipment; and
(i) inspect the manner in which highway maintenance equipment is
being operated and prepare instructions for the efficient
use and repair of the equipment.
C. Supplementary Studies
12.        The consultants shall carry out supplementary studies required for
the planning of highway maintenance, as outlined in 1 through 3 below.
1. Traffic Forecasts
13.        On the basis of data to be provided to the consultants in accord-
ance with Section III hereof and the traffic counts mentioned in III-B-2
above, the consultants shall determine the annual traffic growth rates
(various classes of vehicles) and forecast the traffic volumes on the highways
expected to carry significant movements for the next ten years.
2. Highway Classification
14.        On the basis of their analysis of present traffic and the fore-
casts of future traffic, the consultants shall classify all existing highways
by function and provide a tolerable standard of present roads by classifi-
cation. The classification shall comprise the highway network included in
the inventory prepared by the Government and the consultants during the
"Highway Rehabilitation and Administration Study" and such additional inventory
as may be required.
3. Highway Cost and Revenue Analysis
15.        The consultants shall review all available data on Government
expenditures for highways, examine the methods of collecting highway user
charges, including tools, review the total revenues obtained by the Government



ANINEX4
Page 5
from such charges and determine their adequacy to cover highway mainten-
ance and construction costs. This shall result in specific recommendations
by the consultants on improvements in methods of collection and on the
structure and level of highway user charges in the country.
D. Training Program
16.        For the entire period of the Services in the Dominican Republic,
the consultants shall conduct a training program for personnel to be
designated by the Road Maintenance Directorate at all operational levels.
17.        Through their day-to-day assistance and advisory services, the
consultants shall train the staff of the Sub-Secretary of Roads in the
methods of highway maintenance planning, execution and supervision. This
shall include direct instructions to operating personnel by advice and
demonstration on (a) maintenance and operation procedures with work crews in
the field, (b) equipment maintenance and repair methods and (c) warehousing
and storekeeping.
18.        In addition to the above on-the-job training, the consultants
shall conduct a series of lecture courses on the following subjects:
(1) Administration: management procedures and cost accounting.
(2) Traffic Engineering: (a) traffic counting methods, (b) origin
and destination surveys, and (c) evaluation of traffic data.
(3) Highway Engineering: (a) methods, planning and supervision
of highway maintenance, (b) field execution of highway main-
tenance and (c) bearing value investigations and pavement
design.
(4) Mechanical Engineering: (a) utilization and performance of
maintenance equipment, (b) maintenance and repair of road
maintenance equipment, and (c) basic procedures for mechanics
and their supervisors employed in maintenance shop.
June 1976



ANNEX 5
Page 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Supervision of Construction
1.        The Secretaria de Estado de Obras Publicas y Comunicaciones (SEOPC)
has agreed to employ consulting services for the civil works described in the
Loan Agreement negotiated between the Government of the Dominican Republic and
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (hereinafter called
the Bank). The consultant will agree to act as consulting engineer on this
work on the terms and conditions herein set forth.
2.        The consultant will assist SEOPC in the supervision of construction
for the upgrading and paving of the following section of highway in the
national road network: Puente Camu-San Francisco de Macoris: length 18.980
km. The work is expected to take about 30 months.
3.        The scope of work to be performed by the consultant will be
dictated by normal engineering and management practices for projects of this
nature, including the assignment of the personnel required to perform ade-
quately, but not necessarily limited to, the following functions:
(a) review bids received from contractors and make recommendations
to SEOPC regarding award of the contract;
(b) review proposed schedules and procedures and make recommenda-
tions for inspection and construction, quality control, measure-
ment of partial and final construction quantities, payments to
contractors, and acceptance of the completed works;
(c) furnish technical advice and assistance to SEOPC inspection
personnel;
(d) review work certifications amd make recommendations to SEOPC
for payment to the contractor;
(e) perform adequate check tests on the general fill, subgrade,
sub-base, base and pavement courses as well as the concrete
work related to bridges and drainage structures; and
(f) prepare monthly reports on the work progress for transmittal
to the Bank.
4.        Description of work--Puente Rio Camu-San Francisco de Macoris
pavement: bituminous concrete - 5 cm thickness 6.6 meter width; shoulders:
single surface treatment 3 cm thickness 2.00 meter width each side; base



ANNEX 5
Page 2
course: crushed stone (Rio Jima gravel) maximum size 1-1/2 inch-0.15 meter
thickness; sub-base course: screened gravel (Rio Jima gravel) maximum size 2
inch-0.20 meter thickness; improved subgrade: where indicated screened
gravel (Rio Jima) maximum size 2-1/2 inch-0.20 meter thickness; general fill
material: where indicated on cross-sections, use Rio Jima gravel 3-inch
maximum size; drainage structures: widen nine bridges, lengthen 34; culverts:
details to be placed in list of quantities.
5.        Personnel required for the supervision must include the following
minimum qualified staff:
(a) one project engineer with at least 10 years of combined field
and office experience in the inspection of highway construction.
Background must include soils, pavement and drainage structures
as well as experience related to the evaluation and review of
contractor capability, awards, schedules, payments, technical
assistance and the periodic report writing which is necessary;
(b) one resident engineer with at least five years of field
experience in the inspection of highway construction, including
soils, pavements, and concrete related to drainage structures;
(c) one soils laboratory technician qualified to run and analyze
the required tests listed in basic tests to be performed;
(d) two qualified laboratory assistants to sample and run the
required tests listed in basic tests to be performed.
6.        Personnel noted in (a), (b) and (c) should be fluent in Spanish.
7.        The consultant will furnish adequate transportation for the person-
nel involved and maintain a field soils laboratory (such laboratory equipment
to be supplied by the consultant) properly equipped to do the necessary test-
ing. An office with secretarial capability and communications service is
required.
8.        Before final acceptance of the work, the consultant will perform
a roughness survey and Benkleman Beam deflections properly documented and
evaluated as a requisite for the termination of the consulting work.
9.        Basic testing required by the consultant supplementing regular
testing by SEOPC as follows:
Review:
(a) weekly work schedule and comment thereon;
(b) job mix formulas--all courses--weekly;
(c) gradation and density of aggregates--all courses at 200 meter
intervals;



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Obtain:
(d) stabilization tests--all courses if and when necessary;
(e) concrete job mix formulas for headwalls, wing walls,
footing walls, and slabs in culverts;
(f) review results of concrete compression testing, water cement
ratio, and slump tests;
(g) review of job mix formula and Marshall method pavement testing--
percent bituminous material, stability, flow, and voids
relationships.
Carry out:
(h) periodic check on the possible hydrophilic nature of aggregates
and use of anti-stripping agent in bituminous mixes; and
(i) any other tests necessary for the acceptability of aggregates
such as hardness, soundness, and deleterious content that may
be required.
10.       It is the responsibility of the consultant to assist in the for-
mulation of an efficient and sound inspection policy.  It is desirable to
report on practices that require correction or reconstruction immediately
in order to effectively process the work without delays.
11.       No field changes will be permitted without written authorization
from SEOPC.
12.       Under advice by the consultant, claims by the contractor must be
reported in writing within 30 days of the occurrence to SEOPC and the
action taken by SEOPC must be prompt, providing that the deciding factors
such as testing are completed.
13.       A flow sheet must accompany each contractor's list of equipment
and personnel to indicate that the contractor understands the work and obli-
gations involved.
June 1976



ANNEX 6
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Proposed List of Personnel for Technical Assistance
for a Maintenance Program
1.  Road Maintenance Engineer
2.  Mechanical Engineer
3.   Traffic Engineer
4,.  Master Mechanic
5.   Eqaipment Inspector
6.   Cost Accountant
The assistance is expected to ast 18 months and require about
80-man months of effort.
June 1976



ANNEX 7
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disoursements
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year                              Cumulative  Disburse-
and Semester hnding                             ment at end of Semester
(US $ Thousands)
1977
December 31, 1976                                   1,500
June 30, 1977                                       3,000
1978
December 31, 1977                                   3,500
June 30, 1978                                       4,000
1979
December 31, 1978                                   4,500
June 30, 1979                                       4,800
1980
December 31, 1979                                   5,000
June 1976



e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --
AT AR  AIITAITA,AAAAA              RARRTAAIAAA                                                                                                                                                                                    A CAA|AAA III.L                                                                   .RAATLADA
- TARA-  TACARIARATA ARC  TRAIA|C                                                             I E E    F   q                                                                                                                                                                                        AATT-A






72o                                                            71                                                              70'
*Wperon                                                                                                                 | .                    >-Nrd.     Atlantic  -cean
MONTE CRISTI                                                                                                                                                                o     7,t  ;      d/fo  Af.,,,c   %1  8al.omn
\ > )       _          \  PUERTO       g    T     O~~~~~~~~~~PURT  PLATA          4                                                                                                     W-d  ,, o 
DOMINICAN
&Y./  UERTO                                                                                                                                            CUB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A'-  REPUBLIC
4'bnwai//a_                             =~  ~                       PLATA        (     ,     3          TGhoBEI,IZrd5z                        O  c                                   MEi8E                   JMAICA  nalTJ PHrTN-RcO
onlo ice  CRIS~~~I  -r  ~~                               C                                                                                                                        CaribbeanG Spn
SC                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GuATEMAEII ~ Cab-    e
, J>7te _U2tc RltSl 1 \<c) r < ! / s , 9 '/ C.bre,.   EL SALVADO    NiCAOAGUA          .
Pacific   (0se5 A, TRCA    55- Z-            TNAD
"SALCEDd         TR/.IDA .a   s; r/      AiR4EdeEM                                                        PANAMA    O
:0   /     \                         ,t        / VEGA \v ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LEDQ    ('                                                                                                       M,, T5-P,2  Vel  I'll
NA                                                             A
g;Ru/9o               07-BRHN                                          9--9oeLE\n L.                                e               OM9CA    EPBI
\ / l g -                                                                       MIRL                                       ainEi 
CoboA Roo        %           Eniuio                                                                                                                 eodur   od
ABIcN       t                                                     L.E I            I     I       S                                          I                                B NSTo                      e
Oved                                                                            KlOiTR                                                Rior reodd  a  !/    cecdO
B                                                Sea ROAD     AINEANEAN                                    ac, 
/V--                                        Elvnca   b;un; -resc
N. -71--                                                                                  RI        (Sta-   oo
i-   .b.1- I                                                                   .                Pa_
tST                                                                             IJEYtentinl  orsai. 
G.- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ a
L. .,b,.l.O_    IC-                                                                                                   -N  CIaLLnG R  nI 
72~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 7t



