                                          Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 28177

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (TF-28315 TF-28647)

                                              ON A

                        GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.8 MILLION

                              (US$ 20.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                                    RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                                            FOR A

                         BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT




                                         March 25, 2004




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective March 25, 2004)

                               Currency Unit = Ruble
                                     1 Ruble = US$ 0.035
                                       US$ 1 = 28.489 Rubles

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1   - December 31


                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BCP     Biodiversity Conservation Project
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CPPI    Center for the Preparation and Implementation of International Projects
         of Technical Assistance
CPPR    Country Portfolio Performance Review
FEPS    Final Executive Project Summary
FFS     Federal Forest Service of Russia
GEF     Global Environment Facility
GOR     Government of Russia
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
MOF     Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation
MEDT    Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of the Russian Federation
MNR     Ministry of Natural Resources of the Russian Federation
MEPNR   Ministry of the Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of the Russian
         Federation
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NGO     Nongovernmental Organization
PA      Protected Area
PCD     Project Concept Document
PIG     Project Implementation Group
PTL     Program Team Leader
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SCEP    State Committee for Environmental Protection of the Russian Federation
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
TM      Task Manager
TTL     Task Team Leader

                             Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                          Country Director:     Julian F. Schweitzer
                           Sector Manager:      Marjory-Anne Bromhead
                         Task Team Leader:      Andrey V. Kushlin

                                 RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                      BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             37
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             39
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             42
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             43
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             47
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                48
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            49
Annex 8. Project Completion Report Prepared by the Recipient                     50

Project ID: P008801                                                  Project Name: BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION
                                                                     PROJECT
Team Leader: Andrey V. Kushlin                                       TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT                        L/C/TF Number: TF-28315; TF-28647
   Country/Department: RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                 Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (57%); Central
                            government administration (23%); Sub-national government
                            administration (10%); Other social services (10%)
                  Theme: Biodiversity (P); Environmental policies and institutions (P);
                            Participation and civic engagement (P); Indigenous peoples (P);
                            Land management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/13/1993                                     Effective: 11/27/1996                11/27/1996
     Appraisal: 10/15/1995                                         MTR: 07/01/1998                  02/04/2000
      Approval: 05/30/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 09/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          RUSSIAN FEDERATION/MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Julian F. Schweitzer                           Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:                 Marjory-Anne Bromhead                          Jonathan C. Brown
Team Leader at ICR:             Andrey V. Kushlin                              Andrew H. Bond
ICR Primary Author:             Serguei Milenin


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
   The Russia Biodiversity Conservation Project (BCP) was established to assist the Russian Federation
   protect and manage its globally significant biological diversity in accordance with the principles of
   environmentally sustainable development throughout the economic transition. The project was designed
   to assist in ensuring the enhanced protection of biodiversity, within and outside protected areas, in
   conformance with the Government's obligations under the Convention on Biological Diversity. Project
   objectives included: i) supporting the development of federal and regional biodiversity strategies; ii)
   developing and implementing mechanisms and approaches, which would mainstream biodiversity
   conservation and environmental protection into the policy making process; iii) assessing the protected
   area institutional and operational framework and subsequently strengthening its effectiveness; iv)
   enabling the participation of all interested stakeholders, including aboriginal peoples and local
   communities, in biodiversity conservation; and v) developing an inter-regional demonstration of
   cross-sectoral approaches to biodiversity conservation and environmentally sustainable natural resource
   management. Project objectives were planned to be realized both directly through project-financed
   investments and indirectly through demonstration impacts.

   The Russian Federation occupies about one eighth of the Earth's land surface and contains an enormous
   diversity of ecosystems representing some of the last few remaining areas in the world, where ecological
   processes, plant and wildlife populations can fluctuate naturally. It spreads over eight broad natural
   zones (polar deserts, tundras, forest-tundra, boreal coniferous and broad-leaved forests, steppes,
   semideserts, and deserts) with transitional elements and vast mountain ranges, which contain
   associations of species outstanding in terms of uniqueness, endemism, and diversity. Russia is home to
   more than 12,500 species of vascular plants, 320 mammals, 732 birds, 80 reptiles, 29 amphibians, 343
   freshwater and about 1,500 marine fishes, and 130 thousand species of invertebrates. Of these there are
   many endemics. This is a significant share of the world's biological diversity - for the key higher
   taxonomic groups (algae, lichens, mosses, vascular plants, freshwater fishes, birds, mammals, insects,
   etc.) Russia accounts for from 6 to 30% of the total number of species known globally. Of equal
   importance is the role of the huge expanses of forest and tundra, which act as a significant carbon sink.
   Although much of Russia's biodiversity falls outside of the protected area system, this system in early
   1990s covered 6% of the country, was the largest, one of the most important globally, and one of the
   best organized in the world.

   Transition of Russia to the market economy posed significant challenges for the society. Deep
   institutional changes and transformation of country's governance structures in 1990s affected all sectors
   of national economy and public administration. The process was accompanied by a rapid dramatic
   (40%) decline in GDP and budgetary revenues, high inflation rates (10% per month in 1993), distortions
   in income distribution and growing poverty, which together required public expenditures be prioritized
   to address the vital needs of economic restructuring and developing a social safety net. In the meantime,
   the transitional environment also undermined capacity of the Government to enforce sound natural
   resource management and ensure biodiversity conservation. Agricultural and forestry resource use
   occurred in changing and ill-defined administrative and legal circumstances, further complicated by the
   uncertainty generated by the land reform and privatization process. With the start of administrative and
   political changes, many of the responsibilities of policy implementation were moved without proper
   preparation to a local level, which resulted in a loss of coordination and a minimal implementation of
   laws and activity regulation. The consequent unsustainable use of natural resources was augmented by
   the fragmented institutional structure, particularly evident in the Protected Area administration - which
   turned to be beset by a lack of coordination, efficacy, finance and clarity.



                                                      - 2 -

   The project was planned as an initial phase of support from the GEF to the Russian Federation to ensure
   conservation and sustainable management of its globally significant biological diversity and resources.
   The project served as one of the key elements of the broader Environmental Framework Program for the
   Russian Federation prepared by the Government and the IBRD in 1994 to address a wide range of
   priorities for the sector, including policy and institutional strengthening; air and water quality
   management; hazardous waste management; biodiversity conservation and sustainable natural resources
   management; conservation of cultural and natural heritage; establishment of the National Pollution
   Abatement Facility; and building capacity for international environmental projects preparation and
   implementation. In the view of implementation of the above objectives, the project was legally
   associated with the Russia Environmental Management Project (EMP) funded with the US$110 million
   IBRD loan, which provided financing for the other core components of the Framework Program. The
   IBRD loan to finance the EMP was approved by the Board of Directors on November 8, 1994 (Report
   No. 12838 of October 19, 1994) and this operation is currently in its final phase of implementation.

   In that context, project objectives were clear, realistic, and important for the Russian Federation. They
   were in line with CAS objectives for the environmental sector in Russia, particularly with respect to (i)
   strengthening the relevant public sector institutions, policies, and procedures; (ii) development of
   arrangements and structures for sustainable natural resource management, including improved
   environmental planning and regulation; (iii) biodiversity conservation, improved management of national
   protected areas and forest resources; (iv) addressing issues of global environmental concern; and (v)
   mitigation of environmental risks, associated with the economic transition (Report No 14473-RU of
   May 15, 1995; Report No 16549-RU of May 6, 1997; Update Note R98-288 of December 1, 1998;
   Report No 19897-RU of December 1, 1999). Project objectives remain relevant under the most recent
   CAS (Report No 24127-RU of May 14, 2002), which specifies further support to conservation and
   sustainable management of globally significant natural habitats and biological resources, and the overall
   strengthening of the national institutional framework for environmental and natural resources
   management as areas for priority Bank intervention.

   The project objectives and outcomes were also highly relevant under the Bank's sectoral operational
   strategies ­ the Natural Resource Management Strategy for the ECA Region (2000), the Environment
   Strategy for the World Bank (2001), and the Biodiversity Strategy for the ECA Region (2003).

   The project aimed at influencing and strengthening the environmental sector policies and supporting the
   sector reform. From the outset, it was recognized that such an effort would be difficult due to the
   complexity and instability of the institutional framework and the large number of authorities,
   government and non-governmental stakeholder organizations, and regions involved. The geographic
   dispersion of project sites (because of multiple regional sub-components and large number of
   participating protected areas spread across the country) added to the complexity of the project. Given
   the Recipient's very limited previous experience in administering similar operations, the project was
   highly demanding in terms of building up the implementation capacity.

   Since the project was initiated, there were no changes in the Recipient's circumstances and development
   priorities, which would require revision of the project objectives.

3.2 Revised Objective:
   The original project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:



                                                       - 3 -

The project (original grant amount - US$20.1 mln) consisted of four components:
(A) Strategic Overview, (B) Strengthening Protected Area System, (C) Lake Baikal Regional Program,
and (D) Project Management and Coordination. Project activities are summarized below.

Strategic Overview (Component A, original GEF budget US$2.7 mln). The component was to finance a
range of activities to strengthen policy and institutional framework for the conservation of biodiversity at
the federal level, and in several model regions identified on a self-selection basis. Activities were
grouped in 3 sub-components: (i) Development of National and Regional Biodiversity Strategies
(US$0.6 mln); (ii) Biodiversity Policy Support (US$1.7 mln); and (iii) Establishment of Biomonitoring
Information System (US$1.1 mln).

The grant financed consultants' services for the strategies, action plans and policy support assistance,
related workshops and publications, as well as purchase of specialized computer and GIS equipment for
the information system. The key beneficiaries were the Ministry of Natural Resources of the Russian
Federation (MNR) and environmental authorities of the participating regions.

Strengthening Protected Area System (Component B, original GEF budget US$ 9.3 mln). The
component was established to help Russia maintain and strengthen the existing system of protected areas
(PAs) in a context of deep reorganization of the national institutions and mechanisms for nature
protection. It aimed to assist in increasing the efficiency of the federal management of PAs, while
assuring that appropriate management and financial functions are devolved to the regions within a
modified institutional structure. In parallel with this, the component aimed to improve biodiversity
conservation by focusing on seven ecologically representative regions of high biodiversity value
(Northwestern Russia, Center of European Russia, Upper and Middle Volga, Northern Caucasus, Lake
Baikal, Southern Siberia and the Far East). It would also strengthen public support and establish
long-term strategic partnerships among national, regional, and local conservation stakeholders. The
component was divided into five sub-components, each with a subset of model projects: (i) Institutional
Support (US$0.9 mln); (ii) Support to PAs Operations and Planning (US$ 2.7 mln); (iii) Public
Support and Education Programs (US$ 2.9 mln); (iv) Ecosystem Protection (US$ 6.4 mln); and (v)
Training for PA staff (US$ 0.8 mln).

The grant financed consultants' services and professional development/training packages for the above
activities, as well as procurement of the required field research and monitoring equipment, vehicles,
computer and office equipment, and miscellaneous critical infrastructure works for the selected
protected areas. The key beneficiaries were the federal PAs (zapovednics - strict nature reserves and
national parks), the MNR, and the regional and local environmental authorities and administrations.

Lake Baikal Regional Program (Component C, original GEF budget US$ 6.3 mln). The component
aimed to develop viable and replicable mechanisms for implementation of biodiversity conservation
priorities in the regional and inter-regional economic development context in the Lake Baikal watershed
area. It was divided into five sub-components envisaged to: (i) develop and implement the first fully
participatory inter-regional biodiversity conservation strategy and action plan in Lake Baikal Region
in support of the Federal Law "On protection of Lake Baikal" (US$ 0.9 mln); (ii)-(iv) introduce and
implement watershed-based model biodiversity conservation activities in each of the three participating
regions (Buryatia Republic, Irkutsk Oblast and Chita Oblast) - Goloustnaya, Tugnuy-Sukhara, and
Khilok Model Watershed Programs (US$ 2.9 mln); and (v) solicit and support broad-based, bottom-up
local initiatives in biodiversity conservation and sustainable natural resources management in Lake
Baikal region through a proactive and participatory small grants program (US$ 2.5 mln).




                                                   - 4 -

The grant financed monitoring, computer, and other equipment, and consultants' services for the
inter-regional and regional activities, and the small grants program. The beneficiaries included the
Irkutsk, Chita, and Buryat sub-national administrations; regional and local authorities of the model
watershed areas; regional NGOs, PAs, environmental research and education organizations; individuals
and local communities.

Project Management and Coordination (Component D, original GEF budget US$ 1.8 mln). The
component was set to establish and maintain the required capacity for the project implementation and
coordination with the other ongoing conservation activities in the country. The grant financed
incremental costs of the Project Implementation Group (PIG), activities for the project monitoring and
evaluation, and the other related costs.

The detailed list of project activities under Components A, B, and C is provided in Section 10.1.

Assessment of the Design. Project components were well designed technically and were reasonably
related to the project objectives. To address objectives outlined in Section 3.1 above, some activities
had to be complex in technical and institutional design. However, the selection of interventions, their
scope and regional focus was adequate and well substantiated (also see Section 4.2).


Project activities were reasonably related to the implementation capacity of the government. Component
D provided for the incremental technical, procurement and financial management support to administer
the operation. The implementation arrangements for the project were adequate and ensured single-point
responsibility for deliverables and budget control. The national sector ministry - Ministry of Natural
Resources* (MNR) - had the overall responsibility for the implementation. The Project Implementation
Group (PIG) would administer project activities, including procurement, financial management, and
technical supervision. Heads of the relevant department and line units of the MNR were appointed as
ex-officio Project Director and Directors for Components A, B, and C, to provide policy guidance, close
oversight and support to the implementation. PIG teams for the Strategic Overview and the Protected
Areas components were located in the premises of the MNR in Moscow, while the team for the Lake
Baikal component was based in that region (in cities of Irkutsk, Ulan-Ude and Chita).

BCP implementation arrangements were coordinated with those for the Environmental Management
Project, and the PIG was initially set up within the CPPI** established under the EMP. In 2002,
following the reorganization of the CPPI, PIG staff and resources were transferred to the Center for
Investment Projects "Ozone" (CIP "Ozone"), and then to the Federal Center for Geo-ecological Systems
"Ecologia" (FCGS "Ecologia") ­ both affiliate entities of the MNR.

The Project Supervisory Board under MNR, representing key governmental and non-governmental
stakeholders, evaluated project performance and supported coordination of activities at the national
level. At the early years of the project implementation, inter-agency coordination was also facilitated by
the Governmental Commission for the Protection of the Lake Baikal and the Inter-ministerial
Commission on Environmental Protection and the Use of Natural Resources (these commissions ceased
to exist with the Government reorganization of 2000 when all key functions were merged under one
ministry - MNR).

The project design incorporated lessons learned from the biodiversity conservation programs undertaken
in Russia earlier by the government and the international conservation organizations (particularly WWF
and IUCN), as well as lessons learned from the preparation and initial operation of the EMP.



                                                   - 5 -

   * In 2000 MNR assumed responsibilities of the State Committee on Environmental Protection and of
   the Federal Forest Service ­ the Bank's primary sector counterparts at appraisal.
   ** Center for the Preparation and Implementation of International Projects of Technical Assistance.

3.4 Revised Components:
   The original project components were not revised.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
   As indicated in Section 3.1 above, the project was consistent with objectives of the CAS and
   governmental development priorities and complied with the applicable safeguard policies of the Bank.
   The technical design corresponded to the project objectives. Assumptions about the demand for the
   project output and the international/domestic commodity prices were reasonable. The GEF Project
   Document described the project and its background in sufficient detail. Key project stakeholders
   participated in appraisal and loan negotiations. The proposed implementation arrangements were
   adequate and in direct control of the government; they correctly followed Recipient's governance
   structures and accounted for institutional constraints associated with the project's strong regional focus.
   Needs in the implementation capacity building were assessed and adequately addressed in the project
   design. Assessment of the key implementation risks, related to the project sectoral context, was
   generally reasonable.

   The project was one of the earliest (pilot phase) GEF projects, and its preparation was challenging for
   both the Bank and the Recipient. Bank- and GEF-financed projects were new to Russia, and the
   Recipient's learning of the relevant operational requirements, procedures, and practices had to be an
   integral part of the dialogue. There was a need for the government to establish a number of new
   nation-wide operational policies, in particular, those related to channeling grant proceeds to numerous
   PAs and other project beneficiaries in the regions. For all these reasons, the project start up was
   relatively slow and required extensive input from the Bank.

   The project was not subject to a quality-at-entry review by QAG. However, QAG review for the quality
   of supervision has commented that the project seems to be well prepared, has a straightforward design
   and components tested in other countries. For the purpose of the ICR, the project is rated satisfactory
   for quality at entry.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
   The project objectives outlined in Section 3.1, in particular: i) to support the development of federal and
   regional biodiversity conservation strategies; ii) develop and implement tools to mainstream biodiversity
   conservation and environmental protection into the policy making process; iii) sustain critical PAs and
   enhance effectiveness of the PA system; iv) strengthen stakeholder and public participation in
   biodiversity conservation; and v) provide a demonstration of the synergy between biodiversity
   conservation and sustainable natural resource management in the regional context - have been achieved
   in full. Moreover, the scope of the project exceeded appraisal estimates as the Recipient mobilized
   substantial additional counterpart financing. Project activities were completed successfully, and their
   results and demonstration impacts are significant. In many cases, the outcomes have exceeded initial
   expectations. Activities initiated under the project are now being expanded and replicated, funded from
   the governmental and non-governmental sources. Project outcomes are fully relevant to Russia's current
   policy objectives for the sector, consistent with the objectives of the CAS for Russia, and in line with the
   Bank sectoral strategies (also see Section 3.1). The achieved results on the ground and direct benefits



                                                      - 6 -

for the biodiversity conservation are significant.

The project implementation coincided with the critical political and socio-economic reforms in Russia
including several reorganizations of the environmental protection system, which often lacked proper
design and consultation. Nonetheless, the project attained all the main goals in maintaining and
strengthening the basic elements of, and developing modern mechanisms for, biodiversity conservation in
Russia. The project directly involved over 110,000 individuals in active programs of biodiversity
conservation and rehabilitation, brought together all the main sectors of the society and ensured
maximum use of the available national scientific and technical capacity.

The project pioneered the collection, processing and accumulation of extensive biodiversity information
in Russia, which can be now freely accessed through the web portal www.biodat.ru. The scope of
activities aimed at building public environmental awareness and advocating nature conservation through
mass media was remarkable. The project developed, tested and recommended for replication innovative
approaches, tools and mechanisms for biodiversity conservation.

The main innovations delivered by the project in Russia include: (i) a multi-sectoral, multi-stakeholder
National Biodiversity Conservation Strategy and Action Plan; (ii) a Social Contract for Biodiversity
Conservation as a tool for open-ended stakeholder implementation of the National Strategy; (iii)
regionally focused programs of small grants for increased community involvement and mobilization of
local financing in biodiversity conservation; (iv) informational partnership and web portal; (v)
ecosystem- and biodiversity-based technique for state cadastre evaluation of PA lands; (vi) participatory
preparation of PA management plans as a tool for their effective integration in local economy based on
the value of PA ecosystem services; (vii) horizontal (regional) associations of PAs.

An important outcome of the project is a change in the public perception of biodiversity conservation
issues through intensified participatory approach. In 1997-2001, the project-supported "March for
Parks" brought together some 700,000-800,000 participants and practically all the reserves and national
parks of Russia. The Social Contract for Biodiversity Conservation has directly or indirectly engaged
100,000 people, with over 20,000 people participating in the Baikal Day, Baikal Ecological Festivals
and Marathons. In 1997-2003, over 110,000 people have been directly involved in the implementation
of 750 programs and tasks under the Project (80,000 participated in the Baikal Regional Component,
14,000 - in the Strategic Overview Component, and 18,000 in the Protected Areas Component),
including representatives of local communities, NGOs, businesses, academic and research organizations.

The total scope of project activities - now assessed at US$39.8 mln equivalent - substantially exceeded
the original cost projections of US$26.0 mln. An important contribution of the project is the promotion
of new funding sources for biodiversity conservation in Russia. The GEF Grant proceeds have been
used at US$18.0 mln (US$18.1 mln is the current equivalent of the approved funding of SDR13.8 mln).
The total counterpart contribution of the Russian Federation amounted to US$20.6 mln, which more
than four times exceeded the original projection of US$4.8 mln. This contribution includes: (i) federal
budget allocations for federal targeted programs in biodiversity conservation (US$6.0 mln); (ii) federal
budget allocations for the payment and compensation of taxes and duties under the project (US$1.1
mln); (iii) regional and private counterpart financing of the regional biodiversity conservation strategies
and action plans, small grants programs, and funds raised by the PAs from various sources (estimated at
US$13.5 mln).

As indicated above, the project achieved all its major relevant objectives. The development results of the
project are substantial. The project overall outcome is rated satisfactory.


                                                   - 7 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
   The original program (detailed in Section 10.1) was completed in full. Key outputs are summarized
   below (detailed in Section 10.2).

   Component A "Strategic Overview" (US$2.4 million, or 13% of GEF costs). The component has
   developed the national and regional biodiversity conservation strategies and launched new economic,
   financial, legislative and information mechanisms for their implementation. Thus, the National
   Biodiversity Conservation Strategy and Action Plan for the Russian Federation were developed, adopted
   by national authorities and endorsed by all stakeholders and the public. Model regional strategies and
   action plans were developed, tested, and replicated. Extensive analysis of economic and financial
   mechanisms of biodiversity conservation was undertaken to support strengthening of the national policy
   and regulatory framework. A package of 1500 investment proposals of various scope was developed in
   support of the National Action Plan and proposed for financing through the existing arrangement of the
   federal targeted programs. An Information and Analytical Center for Biodiversity Conservation was
   established.

   Public understanding of the biodiversity conservation issues has increased significantly. As a result,
   these issues became an integral part of public dialogue, national policy-making process and strategic
   planning, including the Environmental Doctrine of the Russian Federation (2002) and the Federal
   Targeted Program "Ecology and Natural Resources (2002-2010)". In November 2003, the Presidium of
   State Council, chaired by the President of Russia, reviewed the current status of environmental
   protection and biodiversity conservation in the country and determined further strategic actions on the
   basis of the project's analytical and planning work. The Project outputs established grounds for the
   Russia's position on the relevant issues at the World Summit on Sustainable Development in
   Johannesburg (2002), the Conferences of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity in
   Bratislava and the Hague (1998, 2002). Project results were endorsed by the CIS Regional Session of
   the Global Biodiversity Forum in Chisinau (April 2003) and presented at the World Parks Congress in
   Durban (September 2003).

   Component B "Strengthening Protected Area System" (US$8.6 million, or 53% of GEF costs). The
   component supported a range of important nation-wide and region-specific institutional and operational
   improvements to ensure the long-term sustainability of biodiversity conservation in Russia, and financed
   targeted PA-based conservation programs, which achieved substantial results on the ground. The
   capacity of federal authorities to administer and further develop the PA system was significantly
   strengthened through the improved data management, communication, and coordination within the
   system. Innovative governance arrangements were put in place in the regions to foster cooperation
   among individual PAs, and between PAs and the regional and sub-national authorities. Integrated
   management plans were developed for 7 model PAs and the implementation of the initial activities under
   those plans was completed. Protection services were strengthened in 38 PAs. Capacity for information
   management by PAs, and information exchange among PAs and between PAs and MNR was
   strengthened. Improved communication and outreach has allowed PAs successfully market their
   expertise to the regional authorities, in particular, for the purposes of environmental monitoring ­ a
   number of PA-based regional monitoring centers were established. Conservation studies in 50 PAs were
   supported through a program of competitive research grants. The role and capacities of PAs in building
   public awareness and environmental education have increased significantly, and the increasing support
   to PAs and their work is being raised from stakeholders and the general public in the regions. Progress
   has been made in many regions of Russia towards the development of econets ­ networks of areas under
   protection, which would complement, integrate and interconnect the existing PAs and, therefore,



                                                       - 8 -

increase the territorial scope of protection for critical habitats and wildlife migratory routs. Good
results on the ground and demonstration impacts were achieved in restoration of the critically
endangered natural habitats and wildlife populations.

Overall, the component substantially strengthened the federal network of PAs by providing direct
assistance to 82 out of Russia's 100 nature reserves and to 19 out of Russia's 35 national parks, thus
improving the territorial aspects of biodiversity conservation across Russia. The bulk of this
component's support (88% of funds) went to nature reserves and national parks to replace their
depreciated fleets of vehicles and boats, spare parts, uniforms, communication and field equipment for
protection services. The area directly covered by the improved protection services amounts to 14
million hectares (40% out of Russia's 27.7 million hectares of inland reserves and 7 million hectares of
national parks). New possibilities offered to protection services significantly improved their
performance, e.g. increased detection of violations of the protection regime. The newly procured
equipment enabled inspection teams to increase their field presence and protection coverage. The use of
video and photo equipment allowed to increase the percentage of detected violations. The project also
supported PA-based environmental education of school students ('model school projects'). Such
activities as environmental summer camps, public lecture centers, circles, ecological expeditions and
excursions involved a total of 156,990 students (with a 40-fold increase in annual participation from
1997 to 2001). At present, 15 PAs operate 22 visitor centers, which have been visited by more than
80,000 people since 1997. New effective forms of horizontal cooperation between PAs, such as
regional associations and directorates of PAs, have been tested and launched, increasing the
effectiveness of use of limited public funds for ecosystem protection.

Component C "Lake Baikal Regional Program" (US$5.1 million, or 25% of GEF costs). The
component has established a functioning framework for inter-sectoral and inter-regional coordination to
enable incorporation of biodiversity conservation into the policy of sustainable socio-economic
development of the Lake Baikal Region. The first participatory Biodiversity Conservation Strategy and
Action Plan for the Baikal Region were prepared, adopted by the sub-national authorities and endorsed
by the federal government. The practical instruments, mechanisms and approaches required to
implement the Strategy were developed, tested and replicated, leading to the improved regulatory
environment, economic incentives, and strong public support to conservation. Biodiversity conservation
issues are becoming factored into the decision-making at all levels of authority - sub-national, regional,
municipal, communal, and etc. Model region-specific watershed-based biodiversity conservation
programs were designed and completed in each of the three sub-national administrative regions,
generating important results on the ground.

The project made a great contribution to building environmental awareness in the Region and provided
basis for development of 10 regulations necessary for the implementation of the Federal Law "On Lake
Baikal Protection". The project governance structure developed under this Component is evolving in a
pioneering interregional governance body for biodiversity conservation (Baikal Council). The Local
Initiatives Program (Small Grants) supported 364 local projects, competitively selected from over 1,500
applications. This program attracted over 80,000 participants in the Region, who brought an estimated
US$11.5 mln counterpart contribution on top of the US$2.4 mln of the awarded grants (1-to-4.8
leverage). The Local Initiatives program made a crucial contribution to building up civil society
activism around the priorities of Lake Baikal biodiversity conservation. Examples of project activities
in Lake Baikal Region include the establishment of artificial nesting grounds for rare bird species, a
young sturgeon hatchery at the Selenga Fish Farm, 11 plantations of medicinal herbs, 8 new PAs. The
project has established groundwork for the regional environmental network, supported PA volunteers,
carried out environmental rehabilitation, recultivation and cleanup of sections of the Lake Baikal Shore,


                                                    - 9 -

   reforestation in the upper reaches of the Khilok River watershed.

   Component D "Project Management and Coordination" (US$1.9 million, or 9% of GEF costs). The
   component financed operation of the PIG, which ensured planning and coordination of day-to-day
   project activities, their technical supervision, and transparent administration of funds.

   The project results were reviewed and discussed by all concerned governmental and non-governmental
   stakeholders, both nation-wide and in the regions, as part of the project completion activities. A detailed
   (150 pages) technical report on the project outputs and outcomes (Annex 7 - ICR Supporting Document
   No.3) was disseminated by the MNR to stakeholders and, along with more than 1000 other project
   publications, made publicly available in Russian and English, including via Internet. A summary of key
   project deliverables and a breakdown of project costs by specific activities are provided in Section 10.2
   and 10.4. The overall geographic scope of investments under the project is illustrated on a map in
   Section 10.3.

   The GEF grant proceeds allocated for the project were disbursed in full, and the resulting relevant
   nation-wide, regional and local development impact is significant. Components A (Strategic Overview),
   B (Strengthening Protected Area System), and C (Lake Baikal Regional Program) are rated satisfactory
   for the achievement of physical objectives, impact on sector policies, and the institutional development
   impact. Component D (Project Management and Coordination) is rated satisfactory for the achievement
   of physical objectives.

   Design of the project was appropriate for achieving its multiple objectives, addressing relevant sector
   issues, and delivering the outputs expected at appraisal. However, because of the project's
   programmatic complexity, the implementation was demanding on the implementing agency and the
   project teams in the regions. This led to certain implementation and procurement delays at the project
   start-up with the Component B, and the Model Watershed Programs under Component C. Although the
   project implementation was then overall on track and the progress was satisfactory, the Recipient and
   the Bank jointly reviewed the design of several activities in an attempt to streamline procurement (this
   coincided with the project Mid Term Review by the Bank in February 2000). That analysis confirmed
   that the original design was overall adequate.

   The GEF Project Document provided performance monitoring and evaluation criteria for project
   sub-components and key activities, and the project incorporated activities for performance evaluation.
   However, a comprehensive set of output-oriented performance indicators, linked to implementation
   targets and procurement plans, was not developed at appraisal as this was not a project processing
   requirement at that time. Such monitoring and evaluation system for the project was established
   following the MTR. Project results against key performance targets are summarized in Annex 1.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
   N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
   N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
   As indicated in Section 3.3 and 4.2, the project directly supported a wide range of institutional
   improvements, which significantly strengthened Recipient's institutional capacity for biodiversity
   conservation and sustainable natural resource management. Therefore, for the purpose of the ICR (



                                                      - 10 -

   Section 2), the institutional development impact of the project is rated as substantial. The relevant
   project outcomes include, in particular, the following:

  l The National Biodiversity Conservation Strategy and National Biodiversity Conservation Action
       Plan were developed, supported by the society, and adopted by the government for implementation.
       The strategy comes with a package of new economic, financial, legislative, administrative and
       information management instruments, most of which are already effectively engaged.

  l The national system of PAs, which is a central vehicle for biodiversity conservation in Russia, was
       significantly strengthened. This equally relates to the legal framework, material base, human
       resources, and operational practices. The project piloted innovative arrangements to foster
       cooperation among PAs, and between PAs and the relevant local authorities, communities, and
       businesses. It also established priorities for the further development of the system.

  l The project laid technical and methodological grounds and established replicable models for
       mainstreaming biodiversity conservation in sub-national and regional development policies. This
       includes guidelines for the regional conservation strategies and action plans, a set of relevant
       regulatory, economic and financial instruments, and participatory governance modalities, which
       were all successfully implemented in pilot regions under the project and were confirmed for their
       nation-wide applicability.

  l Innovative participatory approaches for environmental policy formulation and decision-making were
       tested and introduced at all levels of public authority: national (strategy), inter-regional (Baikal
       program), regional (strategies), sub-regional (watershed programs) and community (PA and land
       management plans). Innovative tools to secure public commitment to policy objectives (Public
       Contract for Biodiversity Conservation, Baikal Declaration) were launched and proved successful.

  l The project has strengthened technical and decisional capacity of the national authorities to
       effectively manage biodiversity conservation, administer PAs, establish and maintain public dialog
       with stakeholders, as well as prepare and implement conservation and development programs in a
       participatory and transparent environment.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

   SDR devaluation. Since 1996, when the grant agreement for the project was signed, the US dollar value
   of the SDR denominated grant reduced from US$ 20.1 mln equivalent to US$ 18.1 mln equivalent.
   However, the balance was compensated by significantly increased counterpart program co-financing,
   which allowed planned activities be completed in full. Therefore, the negative impact of the SDR
   devaluation on the overall project outcome was negligible.

   Non-governmental co-financing. As indicated in Section 4.1 and 4.2 above, program co-financing from
   the non-governmental sources significantly exceeded the initial projections. The impact was
   substantially positive.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

   Macroeconomic conditions. Massive (three times) devaluation of the Russian ruble in August 1998 and



                                                      - 11 -

   the governmental response to it did not directly affected the outcomes of the project, as no major
   counterpart co-financing in foreign currency was required. However, as a result of the crisis, the project
   Special Account was temporarily blocked. This led to unavailability of funds from August to December
   1998 for contractual disbursements and financing of the project management costs, which delayed
   implementation of the selected seasonal project activities in PAs and Baikal model watersheds by almost
   a year.

   Governance. Project and Component Directors within MNR operated effectively and ensured continuity
   of governmental oversight with respect to the project's technical substance. However, at certain points,
   the ability of the PIG to implement the project was substantially constrained by the administrative
   instability and frequent re-organizations of the CPPI, and the subsequent change of the three project
   implementing agencies since 2001. The latter resulted in discontinued disbursements and blocked
   funding for PIG operating costs from August 2002 to February of 2003, which posed significant risks to
   the successful project completion (also see Section 7.5).

   Administrative procedures. Selected procedural requirements established by MNR for the operation of
   the implementing agency (especially since 2002) were overly complex. As this coincided with the
   repeated reorganizations within the ministry itself, and frequent changes in ministerial staff responsible
   for clearances of project-related decisions, it sometimes delayed implementation. This did not
   substantially affected project overall outcomes, although increased administrative costs of the PIG.

   Budgetary co-financing. As indicated in Sections 4.1 above, the overall co-financing from the federal
   budget substantially exceeded the amounts agreed at appraisal, which had a significant positive impact
   on the outcomes. The direct co-financing of the project activities (i.e for VAT, etc.) was also provided
   in full, however, until mid-2003 it was always delayed as the government failed to establish relevant
   internal procedures for VAT refund. This resulted in ineligible expenses being regularly incurred, that
   have been subsequently refunded by the government to the Bank (also see Section 7.5).

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

   The CPPI, CIP "Ozone" and FCGS "Ecologia" in their capacity of implementing agencies for the
   project operated overall effectively, which was determined by a continuity of staffing and effective
   management within the PIG. Internal arrangements for project management, monitoring and evaluation
   were generally adequate. The PIG has demonstrated strong commitment to the project: despite the
   unavailability of funds to cover operating expenses from August to December 1998, and from August
   2002 to February of 2003 (also see Sections 5.2 and 7.5), the PIG has maintained the required project
   management controls, retained qualified staff, and ensured continuity of implementation and supervision
   services. This has helped the project avoid significant operational problems during that time.

5.4 Costs and financing:

   In the GEF Project Document total costs of the project activities were estimated at the equivalent of
   US$26.0 mln, of which US$20.1 mln were to be financed by the GEF grant (SDR13.8 mln).
   Counterpart co-financing was estimated at US$4.8 mln, plus an additional US$1.1 mln was to be
   provided by the Swiss government through WWF. As indicated in Section 5.1, since 1996, when the
   grant was approved, its US dollar value reduced to US$18.1 mln because of the SDR devaluation.

   Grant amount was disbursed in full (99.67%) and the minor remaining balance accounts for the savings
   achieved at completion. The counterpart contribution of the Russian Federation exceeded the appraisal



                                                     - 12 -

   projections and amounted to an estimated US$20.6 mln, which allowed to significantly expand the
   project beyond the original scope. The actual cofinancing from the Swiss government was US$1.2 mln.
   Therefore, the cost of the project activities is now re-assessed at US$39.8 mln equivalent.

   There were no major revisions made to the scope of the GEF-funded activities. The appraisal estimates
   for prices and contingencies were adequate. All planned GEF-funded activities were completed in full,
   although it required grant extension by 15 months. Grant extension was necessary to allow completion
   of seasonal (summer) field work in PAs and Baikal model watersheds, which was two times (in August
   1998 and August 2002) discontinued because of significant delays in contractual disbursements (also
   see Section 5.2).

   Estimated project costs and actual disbursements are presented in Annex 2. GEF costs by activities are
   presented is Section 10.4. Summary description of the counterpart contribution is provided in Section
   10.5.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

   The project is likely to be sustainable. Key considerations affecting the rating are as follows:

  l Since the project's initiation, Russian counterparts have maintained a strong commitment to the
       project objective. Despite several major changes in the national institutional and governmental
       organization for environmental management and biodiversity conservation over the project
       implementation period, which were at times disruptive, the project-related national and regional
       environmental authorities provided strong leadership, timely and successfully translated project
       outcomes into relevant sector policies and regulations. Non-governmental stakeholders extensively
       supported the project with the expertise and the other available resources. The commitment is also
       evidenced by a significant co-financing that the Recipient and the project beneficiaries were able to
       mobilize.


  l The package of strategic priorities and supporting policy instruments offered by the project to the
       government has been adopted and incorporated in the mid- and long-term national and regional
       development strategies, financing policies, and operational plans, including the Federal Targeted
       Program "Ecology and Natural Resources" (2002-2010). The performance of the national system
       of PAs steadily improves. Project investments demonstrate high technical and environmental
       viability which is already being transferred into considerable economic and social benefits. Public
       and stakeholder participation in the project has been particularly strong, and there are good
       incentives for participants to sustain the project results.

  l The project had a strong demonstration impact in the regions. Project's technical and institutional
       solutions are being replicated in non-project areas, funded with budgetary, communal and private
       resources.

  l The BCP has laid the ground and determined priorities, justifications, and operational instruments,
       for a number of follow-up Bank- and GEF-financed projects. They include: (i) ongoing
       IBRD-financed Russia Sustainable Forestry Pilot Project; (ii) GEF-financed Medium-Sized Project
       for the development the PA network in Khabarovsk Kray of Russia; (iii) GEF-financed fire



                                                      - 13 -

       management project to protect high biodiversity value forests in the Russian Far East (under
       preparation - appraisal scheduled for June 2004); and a number of follow-up GEF projects currently
       under preparation with the UNDP and UNEP.

   Therefore, the outcomes of the project are likely to be sustained in the long term.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

   Investments under the project have supported core functions of beneficiaries and addressed their critical
   priorities. The continuous involvement in implementation of the relevant technical departments of the
   MNR, and authorities of the project regions, have minimized the need for special transitional
   arrangements. Such arrangements were required mostly for extensive information resources and
   databases, developed under the project and maintained by the PIG. They have been all transferred to the
   MNR for regular operation, and are now properly managed.

   Impacts of the project will be reviewed by the government as part of its regular monitoring effort for the
   sector. Monitoring will primarily address: (i) state of critical habitats and trends in biodiversity in the
   selected priority eco-regions; (ii) progress with the implementation of the National Biodiversity
   Conservation Strategy and Action Plan; (iii) progress with the implementation of conservation strategies
   and action plans in the Lake Baikal, Nizhny Novgorod and Volgograd regions; (iii) operational
   effectiveness of the PA system; and (iv) progress with, and the longer-term effectiveness of, the
   established multi-stakeholder and participatory arrangements for biodiversity conservation in the Baikal
   Region. Transfer of the required knowledge and skills from the PIG to MNR for that purpose has been
   successful. Arrangements are likely to be made to maximize benefits from the available staff capacity
   and skills for the governmental follow-up and the appropriate replication and dissemination of the
   project experience.

   Follow-up Bank operations with a strong regional focus are highly desirable, as they would be able to
   further support critical sector improvements, and would utilize the momentum and commitment raised
   by the BCP in many regions of Russia.

   As the BCP was one of the earliest, largest, and complex GEF-financed Bank operations in ECA, OED
   impact evaluation is recommended. It could take place from 2009 - when the Federal Program
   "Environment and Natural Resources 2002-2010", which operationalizes and finances selected key
   elements of the National Biodiversity Conservation Strategy, would be nearing completion. Such
   evaluation should review project impacts on: (i) mainstreaming biodiversity conservation in national
   and regional development policies; (ii) effectiveness of the PA network; and (iii) participatory
   conservation in the Lake Baikal region.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

   The Bank performance in lending is rated overall satisfactory. The Bank provided adequate support to
   GOR and the sector ministry in identifying key project activities. It has also assisted the Recipient in
   project preparation and ensured a high degree of participation of key project governmental and
   non-governmental stakeholders in the appraisal. Objectives of the project were fully consistent with the
   governmental development priorities and the Bank's assistance strategy for the country. The project
   complied with Bank's applicable safeguard policies. The project's technical design was adequate.


                                                      - 14 -

   Components of the project were clearly defined in the Grant Agreement and the respective technical
   requirements in the GEF Project Document were laid out in appropriate detail. The Project's
   institutional design and the proposed implementation arrangements, including those for procurement and
   financial management, were adequate.

   However, as indicated in Section 3.5, there was a need for the Recipient to learn and adapt to Bank
   policies and requirements, and develop its own new operational procedures (covering project
   governance, technical supervision, procurement planning, financial management, etc.). For that reason,
   the project start-up was relatively slow and required extensive support from the Bank. The Bank has
   also underestimated the risks related to administratively associating the PIG with the CPPI ­ a large
   multi-project PIU, which, for both political and operational reasons, since November 2001 became
   subject to continuous re-organizations (also see Section 7.5 and 7.6).

7.2 Supervision:

   The project implementation progress was reviewed and reported, and the project performance ratings
   appropriately reflected the performance during the particular rating periods. Implementation problems
   were identified in a timely manner and were addressed adequately and proactively. Advice to the
   Recipient and the follow-up on agreed actions was adequate. The project performance was regularly
   reviewed as part of the CPPRs.

   The Bank maintained both DO and IP ratings for the project Satisfactory, as the progress with the key
   project elements always remained sound. However, the IP was rated as marginally Satisfactory from
   December 1997 to September 1998 and from March 2000 until September 2000, to account for delays
   with the implementation of the Baikal inter-regional and watershed management sub-components and
   reflect downgraded to U performance rating of these activities.

   As the project was demanding on the implementation capacity (more than 60 main activity tasks with a
   multitude of sub-tasks, spread geographically over the entire country), the Bank maintained close
   supervision and provided extensive support to the Recipient on implementation matters. Day-to-day
   supervision and regular support in financial management and disbursement - decentralized to the Russia
   Country Office promptly after the project start-up, and in procurement - decentralized following the
   project MTR in February 2000, was essential.

   The Bank was responsive to the Recipient's operational circumstances. Thus, following the 1998
   financial crisis and in view of the associated co-financing problems, it accommodated higher GEF
   disbursement percentages for the project management activities. It also made procurement procedures
   more flexible, to help the PIG streamline implementation of multiple small tasks.

   The quality and quantity of Bank staff and consultants, their time in the field, the timing of supervision
   missions, and the support of the Bank management to staff at critical points were adequate. In
   December 2001, in view of increased implementation risks related to operational problems with the
   CPPI (see Section 7.5), the project was reviewed by QAG for the quality of supervision. The review
   concluded, that the supervision was satisfactory (see Annex 8 ­ ICR Supporting Document No.6).

   For the purpose of the ICR, the Bank performance in supervision is rated satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:




                                                     - 15 -

   At all stages of the project cycle the support to the Recipient from the Bank was adequate. Bank's
   effort both at lending and supervision phases was intensive (see Annex 4) and the Bank has exercised
   maximum flexibility to address changing circumstances and priorities of the Recipient. Staffing of the
   Bank's team was adequate and the required skill mix and continuity was maintained. The Country
   Office provided full support to the task team at all stages. Project supervision in financial management,
   procurement and disbursement, decentralized to the Country Office, was effective. During supervision,
   the Bank's response to implementation risks was adequate. The project complied with the applicable
   Bank's policies and procedures. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

   At the preparation stage, GOR and MEPNR (since 1996 ­ SCEP) demonstrated a strong commitment to
   the project objectives. The provided technical, institutional, administrative and financial support was
   adequate. Project design was sound and participatory. Arrangements to involve, and cooperate with,
   the relevant local stakeholders were generally effective. Project preparation benefited from the best
   available technical expertise (academia, leading environmental NGOs). The performance of the
   Recipient during project preparation is rated satisfactory.

   However, as the BCP was one of the early GEF/IBRD projects in Russia, both preparation and initial
   implementation involved a lot of learning on the part of the Recipient. In particular, it took time for the
   Recipient to establish the implementation capacity and streamline arrangements for the implementation
   of the multiple project activities. This resulted in a relatively slow start-up of the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

   During implementation, SCEP, and since 2000, MNR, provided strong and continuous support to the
   project on all issues related to its technical substance. The Project Supervisory Board operated as
   required, and its input to performance monitoring and stakeholder coordination was essential. Project
   and Component Directors provided adequate guidance to the PIG and supported implementation of its
   operational decisions. In view of the complexity and the geographic scope of the project, the secured
   continuity of these functions was critical to achieve implementation progress, timely integrate multiple
   outcomes in relevant sector policies, and ensure transition of project elements to sustainable regular
   operation.

   In addition to providing strong implementation support on the substance, the government has also
   mobilized significant budgetary resources to address project objectives, expand project activities, and
   replicate them as components of national and regional conservation programs. It also facilitated
   mobilization of non-governmental co-financing (see Section 10.5). As a result, the scope of the project
   activities, their outcomes, and the development impact are significant and exceed appraisal projections.
   The implementation performance of the government is rated satisfactory.

   However, in 2002 the MNR, beset by repeated reorganizations and changes in staff, insisted on a
   transfer of the PIG from the CPPI first to CIP Ozone, and then to FCGS Ecologia ­ two other
   MNR-affiliated organizations. That transfer resulted in interruptions in contractual disbursements and
   blocked funding for PIG operating costs from August 2002 to February of 2003, which delayed
   implementation and posed significant risks to the successful project completion. The government also
   failed in 2002-2003 (after enactment of the new Budget Code) to adjust and launch relevant procedures



                                                      - 16 -

   for timely provision of co-financing of taxes and duties under the project. This caused ineligible
   expenses being regularly incurred and then - refunded by the MOF to the Bank. A proper direct
   co-financing arrangement was put in place only in mid-2003, a few months before project completion.

   * The Project Supervisory Board was comprised of the Project and Component Directors, authorized
   representatives of the Federal Forest Service, Russian Academy of Sciences, Environmental Research
   Institute of the MNR, three leading national environmental NGOs (WWF Russia, Socio-Ecological
   Union of Russia, and the Biodiversity Conservation Center), and the head of the Project Implementation
   Group.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

   Throughout the implementation, three organizations were subsequently authorized by the government to
   implement the project: the CPPI (November 27, 1996 - August 31, 2002), CIP "Ozone" (September 1,
   2002 ­ December 17, 2002) and FCGS "Ecologia" (December 18, 2002 ­ September 30, 2003). As
   these entities operated project accounts, managed GEF-financed contracts, and provided the required
   administrative support services to the PIG, they are considered project implementing agencies for ICR
   purposes.

   All three entities were reasonably effective and delivered results overall in accordance with agreed
   implementation plans. The internal technical, procurement, financial management, and administrative
   capacity was adequate. That was determined by a continuity of staffing and effective management
   within the PIG, which was simply transferred from one organization to another.

   In the meantime, at certain points, the ability of the PIG to implement the project was constrained by the
   overly complicated administrative procedures imposed by the MNR, and, particularly, by the two
   subsequent transfers, which each required changes in the legal title of about 750 project-administered
   contracts. However, the PIG has demonstrated strong commitment to the project: as indicated in Section
   5.2 despite the unavailability of financing to cover operating costs from August to December 1998, and
   from August 2002 to February of 2003, it continued to provide critical implementation services and
   maintained the required project management controls. This has helped the project avoid significant
   operational problems.

   The implementing agency performance is rated satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

   The Recipient maintained the commitment, capacity, and resources required to successfully complete the
   project, fully achieve its objectives, and maximize development benefits. The overall Recipient
   performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


   The key lessons learned from the Russia Biodiversity Conservation Project are summarized below.




                                                      - 17 -

Sector development issues

1.    Given the overall shortage of resources available for biodiversity conservation in Russia under the
current circumstances of economic transition, it is essential to identify and support high priority
conservation initiatives, which can be easily expanded and replicated. Activities, financed under the
project in model regions - development of Regional Conservation Strategies and Action Plans,
regional coordinating centers, small grants programs, and etc. ­ proved to be instrumental in
addressing conservation issues of the regional scope.

2.    Strong commitment on the part of the sub-national and local governments is in place to
undertake biodiversity conservation initiatives, as evidenced by the increased financial support to the
project from various regional budgets. For the model regions, local project co-financing has increased
2-3 times in Nizhny Novgorod oblast, and 5-6 times in Volgograd oblast throughout the project.

3.    High quality local technical expertise is available in Russia to support implementation of
conservation programs nation-wide and in the regions. However, the local institutional
"infrastructure" for providing respective consulting and advisory services is underdeveloped, and the
experience in bidding for, and performing the competitively awarded complex consulting assignments
in that sector is still insufficient. There is a need to facilitate respective institutional change by
further adapting procurement processes to the prevailing market conditions, especially outside
Moscow, which would eventually result in more cost-effective project solutions in future biodiversity
operations.

4.    The Project has been instrumental in strengthening the system of protected areas in Russia, which
involved strengthening their protection services, capacity to carry out comprehensive ecosystem and
species monitoring and undertake applied conservation research. The project has laid the ground for an
extensive environmental education effort to be built upon the experience, expertise and resources of
protected areas, and has helped protected areas to retain highly qualified staff critical to performance of
their core monitoring and research functions. The small grants program targeted at local
organizations including protected areas has been an effective vehicle to support these activities.

5.    Establishment of the regional Associations of Protected Areas and the regional
Administrations/Directorates of Protected Areas proved to be an effective mechanism to strengthen
cooperation between the protected areas and the respective sub-national and local authorities.
Associations provide for increased long-term institutional and financial sustainability of the participating
protected areas, since these protected areas benefit from their involvement in various regional
development programs. Priority should be assigned to (i) strengthening the role of protected areas in
addressing regional environmental issues and, where appropriate, (ii) more profound integration of
protected areas in the growth of local economy based on increased ecosystem services.

6.    Although there is a strong commitment on the part of the protected areas' management to employ
sound operational practices, the internal capacity to undertake adequate management planning in most
protected areas is currently insufficient. External advisory support to protected areas on that issue is
required (based mainly on nationally available expertise) and should continue to be budgeted as part
of the future project activities.

7.    Close interaction and coordination between the protected areas and the regional/local public
education authorities is required to maximize the effectiveness of the protected area-based education


                                                   - 18 -

programs. There is also a need to ensure adequate coordination with the federal education authorities
for the nation-wide programs.

8.   The project's main recommendations for the future priority actions in biodiversity conservation in
Russia include: (i) further expanded use of Russia's network of protected areas for environmental
education and awareness raising; (ii) accelerated development of interconnected networks of federal,
regional and local protected areas with relevant conservation regimes (econets) within globally
important ecoregions of Russia; and (iii) adaptation of emerging tools for agricultural land market
regulation to support restoration of econets in the most heavily degraded agrarian regions in
South-Central Russia.

Bank operational context

9.   Advance procurement and co-financing planning is essential for the implementation of complex
multi-regional conservation programs. Detailed planning should be carried out at the project
preparation phase to identify and address issues such as lack of procurement capacity in the remotely
located recipient and counterpart organizations, potential single-source, commercial-practice and/or
community-based contracting for small contracts, eligibility of various (profit and nonprofit) project
beneficiaries for tax refund procedures, etc.

10. Adequate monitoring and review of the implementation progress and project outcomes, as well as
of the performance of individual project activities is critical to ensure that the implementation issues are
identified and addressed in a timely manner. It is essential that the regular project reporting be
designed as a convenient tool to review implementation progress, both in terms of procedures and the
technical substance.

11. At a late stage in implementation, the ability of the Recipient to implement the project was
constrained by the change of implementing agencies, which delayed, and posed risks to, the completion
of critical project activities. Unless such changes are fully justified by operational reasons, the
Recipient should firmly adhere to the implementation arrangements agreed and confirmed at
negotiations. It is essential that at critical points in implementation these arrangements are stable, so
that the implementation team could concentrate entirely on the project deliverables.

12. The support provided to the project by the Project and Component Directors, who were on board
since the early days of project preparation, has ensured strong governmental leadership on the technical
side of the project throughout its implementation. Close supervision by the Bank in procurement,
financial management and disbursement, largely decentralized to the Country Office, was effective, and
assisted the Recipient to address timely and adequately diverse implementation circumstances. The
continuity of task management allowed the Bank team to maintain focus on development objectives in
the rapidly evolving institutional context and project operational environment. Therefore, the continuity
and the right mix of skills in the project teams, both on the Bank and Recipient sides, have
significantly contributed to the successful project completion.

13. The Project benefitted substantially from extensive and in-depth participation of civil society.
Active involvement of NGO community at all stages of the project cycle is essential to ensure
availability of critical professional expertise in specific subject areas, transparency of project
governance, and effective utilization of existing public information and dissemination mechanisms.

14. The Project's Mid-Term Review (MTR) proved to be an invaluable tool in adjusting the original


                                                   - 19 -

    project focus agreed at appraisal towards more up-to-date practical requirements on the basis of initial
    lessons from implementation on the ground. As the positive experience of this project demonstrated,
    direct and proactive involvement of Bank's sector management should be ensured and encouraged at
    the MTR stage for each operation.

    15. A portfolio-wide review of ongoing and proposed biodiversity projects in Russia, which was
    conducted by the Bank jointly with the other GEF Implementing Agencies (UNDP and UNEP) in
    conjunction with the MTR for this project, has been extremely instrumental in identifying cross-cutting
    issues and lessons and developing clear recommendations for development of follow-up operations in the
    Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). It is essential that a sector-wide review of project impacts, in
    correlation with other Bank and non-Bank implemented projects, be used to contribute in a
    meaningful and effective way to the elaboration of the CAS in the given sector.

 9. Partner Comments

 (a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Ministry of Natural Resources of the Russian Federation (the Recipient) has reviewed this
Implementation Completion Report in draft form and agreed with its main findings (see ICR Supporting
Document 4A - Comments from the Recipient on the draft Bank ICR).

 (b) Cofinanciers:
 The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), the cofinancing and implementation partner for the Protected
 Areas education and training activities under the Project, has also reviewed the draft version of this ICR (
 see ICR Supporting Document 4B - Comments from WWF on the draft Bank ICR). WWF agreed with the
 report's key conclusions and provided text-specific comments which have been addressed in the final
 version of this report.

 (c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
 See paragraph 9(b) above.

 10. Additional Information


    10.1 Summary description of the project activities

    A.    Strategic Overview (US$2,695,000 - hereinafter GEF cost at appraisal). The component would
    finance a range of activities to strengthen policy and institutional framework for the conservation of
    biodiversity at the federal level, and in the model regions. Activities were grouped in three
    sub-components:

    (i) Development of National and Regional Biodiversity Strategies (US$370,000) - support to the
    development of the national strategy for biodiversity conservation, methodologies and procedures for
    biodiversity conservation in the regions, and a model regional strategy for the Nizhny Novgorod region.
    The regional strategies would assess the extent, status and vulnerability of biodiversity; detail current
    normative instruments which affect biodiversity conservation; and propose an action plan defining
    remedial actions.

    (ii) Biodiversity Policy Support (US$1,390,000) - analytical and participatory actions to ensure
    mainstreaming of biodiversity values into policy formulation and implementation. Includes: (a) analysis
    of the economic linkages between biodiversity conservation and sound economic policy; (b) preparation
    of guidelines on regional biodiversity strategies development; (c) stakeholder coordination and



                                                      - 20 -

participation activities; (d) development of additional regional strategies; (e) analysis of economic
aspects of biodiversity conservation; and (f) assessment of potential conservation funding mechanisms.
Also includes the development of a wide range of training programs to disseminate this information.

(iii) Establishment of Biomonitoring Information System (US$935,000) - strengthening the capacity to
gather, manage, and analyze various data related to biodiversity conservation. Includes: (a) support to
the establishment and operation of the information center; and (b) development of the selected specific
biodiversity databases.

B.    Strengthening Protected Area System (US$9,257,000). The component was established to help
Russia maintain and strengthen the existing system of protected areas (PAs) in a context of deep
reorganization of the national institutions and mechanisms for nature protection. It aimed to assist in
increasing the efficiency of the federal management of PAs, while assuring that appropriate management
and financial functions are devolved to the regions within a modified institutional structure. In parallel
with this, the component would improve biodiversity conservation by focusing on seven ecologically
representative regions of high biodiversity value (Northwestern Russia, Center of European Russia,
Upper and Middle Volga, Northern Caucasus, Lake Baikal, Southern Siberia and the Far East). It
would also strengthen public support and establish long-term strategic partnerships among national,
regional, and local conservation stakeholders. The component was divided into five sub-components,
each with a subset of model projects:

(i) Institutional Support (US$832.000): (a) strengthening the capacity of federal authorities to
administer PAs ­ strict nature reserves and national parks; (b) establishment of Expert Council on PAs;
(c) establishment and strengthening of 2 model regional PA directorates; and (d) establishment and
strengthening of 5-6 regional associations of PAs.

(ii) Support to PAs Operations and Planning (US$1,875,000): (a) establishing a PA information net
and databases; (b) development of integrated management plans for 10-12 model PAs; (c) establishing
ecosystem monitoring stations in PAs; and (d) research grants for PAs.

(iii) Public Support and Education Programs (US$2,215,000): (a) strengthening coordination and
cooperation among PAs, development of coordination center for environmental education and public
support; (b) development of 8-10 model school projects in PAs; (c) development of field guides,
collections and exhibits in PAs; (d) development and TV broadcast of video materials on PAs; (f)
publication of a Newsletter and scientific-popular journal on applied conservation; (e) eco-tourism
development in 1-2 model PAs.

(iv) Ecosystem Protection (US$3,970,000): (a) strengthening the protection services for 10-15 model
PAs ­ development and implementation of protection service management plans; (b) protection of rare
species and endangered ecosystems, as well as biologically integrated landscapes (initially in watersheds
of the Dnieper, Don, Volga, and Amur rivers); (c) planning of new federal PAs; (d) creation of 3
regional systems of PAs in model regions.

(v) Training (US$365,000): (a) advance training courses for PA managers and practitioners; (b)
regional training workshops and development of a handbook for PA staff; (c) development of academic
courses on biodiversity conservation for the higher educational establishments.

C.    Lake Baikal Regional Program (US$6,340,000). The component would develop viable and
replicable mechanisms for implementation of biodiversity conservation priorities in the regional and


                                                  - 21 -

inter-regional economic development context in the Lake Baikal watershed area. It was divided into five
sub-components envisaged to: (i) develop and implement the first fully participatory inter-regional
biodiversity conservation strategy and action plan in Lake Baikal Region in support of the Federal Law
"On protection of Lake Baikal"; (ii)-(iv) introduce and implement watershed-based model biodiversity
conservation activities in each of the three participating regions (Buryatia Republic, Irkutsk Oblast and
Chita Oblast); and (v) solicit and support broad-based, bottom-up local initiatives in biodiversity
conservation and sustainable natural resources management in Lake Baikal region through a proactive
and participatory small grants program. The activities were structured as follows:

(i) Inter-regional Activities (US$950,000): (a) development of inter-regional biodiversity strategy and
action plan; (b) data and information flows; (c) environmental policy evaluation; (d) strengthening legal
and regulatory framework; (e) economic perspectives for biodiversity conservation.

(ii-iv) Goloustnaya, Tugnuy-Sukhara, and Khilok Model Watershed Programs (US$2,890,000): (a)
land use plan; (b) environmental monitoring; (c) sustainable forest management - forest restoration,
early forest fire detection and fire management, and training; (d) analysis of environment-economy
linkages; (e) assessment of watershed management capabilities, institutional strengthening, and
watershed management organization; (f) management of biodiversity conservation in regional and local
PAs - PA management plans, legal framework, optimal land and resource use patterns; (g) recreation
management plans; (h) environmental education programs and regional/local information centers; (j)
sustainable agriculture - grazing regimes, alternative crops and breeds, soil erosion control, etc.; (k)
protection of rare species and ecosystems.

(v) Local Biodiversity Conservation Initiatives (US$2,500,000). Small grants would be provided to
institutions, NGOs, local communities, businesses and individuals to encourage small scale or specific
conservation programs. This would include applied research, environmental monitoring, eco-tourism,
nursery development, traditional resource use practices, appropriate husbandry programs (horse, cattle
and other livestock breeding), management of PAs, publication of environmental literature and
development of local school programs. Participation of the native populations, representatives of remote
settlements, and women would be encouraged. Individual grants would range from US$1,000 to
US$50,000.

D.    Project Management and Coordination (US$1,806,000). Covers incremental costs of the Project
Implementation Group (PIG), activities for the project monitoring and evaluation, and the other related
costs.

10.2 Summary of project outputs and outcomes

Key project outputs and outcomes are summarized below. Details on the individual activities, their
costs and results are provided in the ICR supporting document 3 - Recipient's technical report on the
project outputs and outcomes; and the ICR supporting document 6 - Detailed supervision report on
the completion of project activities.

A.    Strategic Overview

1.    National Biodiversity Conservation Strategy and Action Plan for the Russian Federation were
developed, adopted by national authorities and fully endorsed by all stakeholders and the public.
Development of the Strategy and Action Plan involved extensive consultations, and promotion of a
Public Contract for Biodiversity Conservation was especially instrumental in securing stakeholder and


                                                  - 22 -

public commitment.

2.    Model regional strategies and action plans for biodiversity conservation were developed, tested,
and replicated. In the Nizhny Novgorod Oblast, the Strategy and Action Plan were developed and
adopted by the authorities together with the legal acts required for their implementation. A wide range
of supporting activities included detailed planning for the expansion of the regional PA network,
development of the regional Red Data Book, and etc. Similar program was completed in the Volgograd
Oblast. Significant progress was made in both regions in expanding PA systems: 30 new PAs were
established in Nizhny Novgorod Oblast and 4 - in Volgograd Oblast. These activities were also to
various extent replicated in 20 other regions of Russia. In Penza, Saratov, and Vologda Oblasts, as well
as Yakutia and Severnaya Osetya Republics, the developed strategies and action plans have laid the
ground for the establishment of the regional targeted programs on biodiversity conservation. In Nizhny
Novgorod, Volgograd, and Penza Oblasts the implementation of action plans was supported under the
project through a competitive small grants program.

3.    Extensive analysis of economic and financial mechanisms of biodiversity conservation was
undertaken to support strengthening of the national policy and regulatory framework. Relevant
studies were completed in more than 25 regional centers of Russia, supported by a series of
publications, seminars, and training events (in Yaroslavl, Volgograd, Moscow, Nizhny Novgorod, and
etc.). Outcomes of these studies are being incorporated in federal and regional legislation, regulations
and management guidelines. Thus, the proposed methodologies to evaluate the economic damage to
biodiversity were accounted for in the new Tax Code of the Russian Federation (2002). New
methodology to define economic value of the biodiversity was integrated into the State Methodology for
Cadaster Evaluation of Lands Designated for Nature Protection Purposes (2002). Innovative analysis
with respect to the economic value of "ecosystem services" from natural habitats has laid the ground for
the position of the Russian Federation at the World Summit on Sustainable Development in
Johannesburg (2002).

4.    A set of fourteen modern comprehensive textbooks for the graduate-level educational programs
were developed and approved for the use in higher educational establishments. They cover relevant
disciplines of biology, physical geography, cartography, environment and natural resource management,
economy, law, and social science.

5.    A package of 1500 investment proposals of various scope was developed in support of the
National Action Plan and proposed for financing through the existing arrangement of the federal
targeted programs. These proposals formed the key elements of the three sub-programs - related to: (i)
conservation of the endangered species; (ii) strengthening the PA system; and (iii) protection of the Lake
Baikal - of the Federal Targeted Program "Ecology and Natural Resources of Russia (2002-2010)".

6.    An Information and Analytical Center for Biodiversity Conservation was established to develop
and maintain an integrated database of available biodiversity-related information resources (including
those developed under the project) and provide information support to the government in implementing
the National Biodiversity Conservation Strategy and Action Plan. The Center has established relevant
information standards, developed and operates extensive nation-wide databases and information
systems. It manages Biodiversity Monitoring Information System established under the project, which
includes interconnected and structured Internet-based resources and a user network with various forms
of access to the data. The Center maintains Internet portal www.biodat.ru, which accumulates and
provides public access to the multiple information resources developed under the project, and serves as a
main tool to foster information partnerships for conservation in Russia. Throughout the project, more


                                                 - 23 -

than 200 analytical reports were prepared at the request of the MNR, Office of the Government, and the
State Council of the Russian Federation in support of critical governmental decisions. The Center
supports operation of the Russian National GEF Focal Point: it provided essential input to the
preparation of the First (1997) and the Second (2001) Russia's National Reports to the Secretariat of
the Convention on Biological Diversity and to the associated reporting on certain specific issues -
invasive species, forest biodiversity, genetic resources, protected areas, and the biodiversity of
mountains. The Center also operates as a Clearing-House Mechanism under the Convention.

B.   Strengthening the Protected Areas System

Institutional Support

7.   The capacity of federal authorities to administer and further develop the PA system has been
significantly strengthened. The Dept. of PAs of the SCEP and the Dept. of National Parks of the FFS
(both now merged under the MNR) were provided with thedata processing and communication
equipment required to ensure effective operational communication with more than 130 PAs under their
jurisdiction. Ten computerized management databases were established to provide easy access to the
information on individual PAs location, staffing, operating costs, needs in equipment and infrastructure,
and the related legal and economic issues. The established Expert Council on Protected Areas provided
essential input to the development of: (i) Guidelines for State Nature Reserves on Research Activities;
(ii) Guidelines for National Parks on Research Activities; (iii) Principles of Environmental Education for
the State Nature Reserves and National Parks; (iv) Principles of Ecological Tourism in the State Nature
Reserves and National Parks; (v) Main Concept for the Development and Operation of the State Nature
Reserves in Russia till the Year 2010; and (vi) Main Concept for the Development and Operation of the
National Parks in Russia till the Year 2010. Extensive analytical support was provided on issues,
related to: (i) strengthening protection services in PAs; (ii) developing public awareness and outreach
programs; and (iii) optimizing ecosystem and species monitoring in PAs. An enhanced PA inspection
effort included 84 field inspections, which allowed government officials and independent experts visit 48
individual PAs to review at site their facilities and operational programs. The nation-wide
improvements in performance and coordination within the PA system were facilitated through a wide
range of training programs for PA managers, regular all-Russia meetings of PA directors, and
support to the conservation press and publications (quarterly newsletter "State Nature Reserves and
National Parks", scientific journal "Biodiversity Conservation in Nature Reserves" and a monthly
newspaper "Zapovestnik").

8.   Innovative governance arrangements were put in place in the regions to foster cooperation
among individual PAs, and between PAs and the regional and sub-national authorities. Ten Regional
Associations of Protected Areas, which together include 112 federal PAs, were established and
strengthened. These Associations have completed 26 regional projects covering: (i) exchange and
dissemination of operational information; (ii) joint field inspections and cross-support to anti-poaching
enforcement operations; (iii) training for management and enforcement personnel; (iv) public awareness;
and (v) conservation research. More than 1000 conservation professionals have participated in 34
seminars in various regions. Outcomes of that work were reflected in numerous scientific publications,
methodological guidelines, and information materials, which were widely disseminated.

As a pilot program, two Regional Directorates for Protected Areas were established in Orlovskaya
Oblast and Taldomsky Rayon of the Moscow Oblast. The Directorate for Protected Areas in
Orlovskaya Oblast - under the Oblast Committee for Natural Resources - works to: (i) ensure close
cooperation between environmental authorities and PAs of the three Russian sub-national territories


                                                   - 24 -

(Bryanskaya, Kaluzhskaya, and Orlovskaya Oblasts); and (ii) secure the adequate involvement in and
support to biodiversity conservation activities on the part of the Administrations of the subject regions.
As a result of these efforts, the area under protection in the region increased by 6,568 ha, and a further
increase by 5,000 ha is expected. Formation of the regional eco-net is also in progress.

The Directorate for Protected Areas of the Taldomsky Rayon provided support and coordination to the
11 local PAs. It completed a range of activities to strengthen coordination between PAs and the
authorities of the Rayon and the adjacent administrative districts. It also provided support to PAs on
various issues of their operation and development planning, which include: (i) habitat and species
protection; (ii) anti-poaching enforcement; (iii) fire management; (iv) personnel training; (v)
infrastructure development; (vi) public awareness; (vii) design of the new PAs; and etc. As an outcome,
stakeholders coordination and support to conservation were strengthened significantly. The Directorate
has developed and now operates the regional program on sustainable land use until 2010.

Protected Areas Operations and Planning

9.    Integrated management plans were developed for 7 model PAs and the implementation of the
initial activities under those plans was completed. Five year management plans were developed for 5
National Parks - Kenozersky, Shushensky Bor, Russky Sever, Sebezhsky, and Plesheevo Ozero, and 2
State Nature Reserves - Kerzhensky and Kavkazsky, covering in all 8,378.91 sq. km. Management
plans were developed in a participatory manner and addressed PA territorial zoning, optimization of
protective regime, development of infrastructure, protection services, ecosystem and species monitoring,
public awareness programs, and etc. Training was provided to the PA personnel. Detailed one year
operational plans were implemented. Selected activities were replicated in Ugra and Smolenskoye
Poozerye National Parks with non-GEF funding.

10. Protection services were strengthened in 38 PAs. Thirty five State Nature Reserves and 3
National Parks developed and implemented 3-5 year management plans to strengthen their protection
services. Ten of these PAs have status of the UNESCO biosphere reserves, and 7 PAs - support
conservation of the 3 World Heritage Sites. Participating PAs were provided with the required facilities,
vehicles, boats, spare parts, radio stations, field equipment and ammunition, office equipment, and etc.
New opportunities greatly improved the performance of protection services and enabled inspection teams
to significantly increase their field presence and protection coverage. The use of video and photo
equipment allowed to increase the percentage of detected violations. The improved protection covers a
total area of 140,000 sq.km. The decreased habitat disturbance has already resulted in the notable
increase in the depleted local populations of background and rare species. These activities have also
triggered governmental effort to optimize administrative and regulatory framework for anti-poaching
and enforcement in PAs.

11. Capacity for information management by PAs, and information exchange among PAs and
between PAs and MNR was improved. The established Federal Information System "State Nature
Reserves" is based on the regular reporting of PAs, and for every individual PA covers: (i) sources and
use of funds; (ii) status of protection services; (iii) progress in conservation research; and (iv)
environmental awareness and eco-tourism activities. It is complemented with a computerized database
on PA research staff and experts, and a database on PA publications made over the last 15 years. The
new database on the biodiversity of PAs, accumulates the field data and information on the status and
distribution of thousands of plant and animal species observed and studied within PAs. To facilitate the
required information exchange and communication, 37 PAs were provided with the communication
equipment and 35 PAs were connected to Internet and E-mail.


                                                    - 25 -

12. Improved communication and outreach has allowed PAs successfully market their expertise to
the regional authorities, in particular, for the purposes of environmental monitoring. Thus, one
environmental monitoring program, launched jointly by 9 PAs, includes regular assessments of
dynamics in populations of the selected indicator species. The program is coordinated by the established
Regional Monitoring Center in the Voronezh State Biosphere Reserve. Other State Nature Reserves -
Mordovsky, Kostomukshsky, and Privolzhskaya Lesostep - now also take the lead in environmental
monitoring in their respective regions. A Station for the Integrated Ecosystem Monitoring was
established in Kerzhensky State Nature Reserve in Nizhny Novgorod Oblast under agreements with the
regional Directorate on Hidrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring and with the Administration of
the Oblast. All these activities demonstrate the significant public value of the PA expertise and, as they
help PAs generate additional funds, contribute to the PAs financial sustainability.

13. Conservation studies in 50 PAs were supported through a program of competitive research
grants. Grants, ranging from 5 to 25 thousand dollars, were allocated to 41 State Nature Reserves and
9 National Parks to support 62 research programs. Such programs included: (i) assessments of the
current dynamics in natural complexes; (ii) biodiversity inventories; (iii) analysis of historical
biodiversity records; (iv) studies of rare species; (v) development of the local biodiversity databases; and
(vi) development of GIS for individual PAs. These activities were essential to properly take stock of key
studies undertaken by PAs for decades, and more than 500 scientific articles and 30 monographs were
published to make the results of these studies available to the conservation community. These grants
were critical to help PAs retain and attract highly qualified research staff and maintain capacity for
comprehensive ecosystem and species monitoring.

Public awareness and environmental education

14. Increasing support to PAs and their work is being raised from stakeholders and general public in
the regions. Nation-wide annual awareness campaign "March for Parks" has generated massive
positive response from the local authorities, NGOs, and the public. This campaign, undertaken by 15
PAs and coordinated by an NGO, included a set of public events attracting attention to PA work and the
pressing local conservation issues. From 1996 to 2000, a number of participants has increased from
100,000 people to 1 million; a number of supporting local NGOs - from 30 to 60. From 80 to 600 has
increased a number of voluntary inspection teams operating in PAs on the days of the event. Over 300
information agencies provided media coverage, which annually included around 600 publications in
local press, and broadcasts on 3 national TV channels. Public financial support to the event has
increased from US$ 100,000 in 1996 to US$ 200,000 in 2000. During that period, PAs were able to
raise an additional US$ 850,000 from NGOs and local authorities. Although that activity under the
project was completed in 2000, in view of its significant positive impact, decisions were taken by
authorities in many regions to continue with the campaign, which since 2001 is financed entirely from
the governmental sources and by NGOs.

15. The role and capacities of PAs in building public awareness and environmental education have
increased significantly. In was supported through a set of model school projects completed in 18 PAs
(13 State Nature Reserves and 5 National Parks). Ten PAs have introduced long-term planning of
awareness and education activities. The infrastructure for such activities was strengthened: 15 PAs
have built and equipped 22 visitor centers (already attended by over 78 thousand visitors); 16 PAs have
established 30 various information points - field stations, museums, etc. (more than 30 thousand
visitors); 13 PAs have established in all about 487 km of ecological trails and paths (used by over 47
thousand tourists). More than 156 thousand schoolchildren participated in the developed environmental


                                                   - 26 -

education programs, which included extracurricular training courses, lectures, excursions, educational
camps, expeditions, and etc. Seminars for secondary school teachers were also part of these programs.

To support these activities, comprehensive training in development of public awareness programs was
provided to 150 professionals from 13 PAs (included study tours to the selected PAs in Germany,
Finland, Norway, and the USA). The coverage of model school projects in mass media was extensive
­ 388 articles in press, 99 TV and 45 radio broadcasts. Long-term partnership arrangements and
cooperation were established by the participating PAs with schools, universities, local public education
authorities, NGOs, and other education stakeholders.

As a separate effort, video programs covering various conservation issues and PAs work were
developed and broadcasted by national and regional TV channels. Thus, 90 video materials from 40
PAs were broadcasted by 7 all-Russia TV channels. Arrangements are in place with 10 regional TV
channels to present in their regions (total audience of 27 mln people) the prepared 26 full-size films on
individual PAs and 3 other documentaries.

A video production center was established in the Bryansky Les State Nature Reserve. It now takes the
lead in developing education video programs, and provides training and other support to such initiatives
of the other PAs. The center has also established and maintains a centralized archive of video records
on PAs and biodiversity conservation in Russia to ensure availability of all these records for education
purposes.

An Education and Scientific Information Center was built and equipped in Teberdinsky State Nature
Reserve to serve as a basis for environmental education and awareness activities in the region.

An Education Center "Zapovedniki" was established to provide centralized support to PAs on various
issues related to building public awareness. The Center provided critical input to the development of
methodologies and guidelines on public education activities in PAs. It was licensed to provide respective
formal training to PA staff, and already delivered such training to more than 200 specialists from 127
Russian PAs, as well as to PA staff from Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, and Uzbekistan. Training
seminars and specialized events were also attended by over 500 professionals from the regional
authorities and the other stakeholder organizations. The Center also operates 40 branches (partner
NGOs) in the regions of Russia and supports public education and awareness work in PAs. The
establishment and initial operation of the Center was financed by a grant from the Government of
Switzerland administered by the WWF Russia.

Ecosystem Protection

16. Progress has been made in many regions of Russia towards the development of eco-nets ­
networks of areas under protection, which would complement, integrate and interconnect the existing
PAs and, therefore, increase the territorial scope of protection for critical habitats and wildlife
migratory routs. The core and connecting elements of eco-nets would consist of new PAs to be
established mostly by the sub-national and local authorities. These regional PAs of different scope and
regime would complement state nature reserves and national parks managed by the federal government
and would include nature parks, ecological corridors, landscape nature monuments, game management
reserves, protected functional forests, and etc. The development of eco-nets is initiated in 4 model
regions where anthropogenic transformation and fragmentation of habitats poses significant risks to
biodiversity: Altai Mountains, South-West Russia (Central Black Soil region), Central Russian Plains,
and Volga-Urals region. The results of the completed programs include:


                                                  - 27 -

Altai Mountains (Altai Republic) - key elements of the eco-net determined; areas of historical and
cultural value identified; biodiversity inventory undertaken; existing PAs mapped; normative and
program documentation for the establishment of the eco-net developed.

South-West Russia (Central Black Soil region ­ Belgorod, Voronezh, Kursk, Lipetsk, and Tambov
Oblasts) - current PAs reviewed for adequacy and efficiency; legal base strengthened; arrangements to
increase public support established; guidelines developed and field studies completed to establish
ecological corridors in several Rayons of Voronezh Oblast.

Central Russian Plains (Vladimir, Kaluga, Moscow, Ryazan, Smolensk, Tver, Tula, and Yaroslavl
Oblasts) - a structure of the eco-net determined, including transitional and buffer zones; 89 key
territorial elements of the eco-net identified; justifications and proposal packages to establish 109 new
PAs of differed categories developed; protective measures for key elements of the eco-net determined;
establishment of 26 new PAs agreed with authorities; 2 new PAs established in Vladimir Oblast.

Volga-Urals region (Bashkortostan and Tatarstan Republics, and Samara Oblast) - the structure of the
eco-net determined and 942 eco-net elements identified; 44 transitional territories identified, in 10 of
which current protective regime reviewed for adequacy; justifications and proposal packages for 6 new
large PAs developed. From the analysis of bird migratory routs over 700 Important Bird Areas were
identified, of which for 114 areas detailed descriptions were developed. Nine such areas qualify as
Wetlands of International Importance, and 12 ­ as important sites for the waterfowl regular monitoring.
Computerized database on Important Bird Areas was established.

17. Good results on the ground and demonstration impacts were achieved in restoration of the
critically endangered natural habitats and wildlife populations. Restoration of the natural black-soil
steppe habitats has started in the Centralno-Cheronzemniy State Nature Reserve. Work to strengthen
protection of natural steppe was initiated in Kursk, Orel, and Belgorod Oblasts. Wild populations of
aurochs (Bison bonasus) are being re-established in Orlovskoye Polesye National Park and Bryanskiy
Les State Nature Reserve; decline in aurochs population was reversed in Kavkazsky State Nature
Reserve. Populations of the Japanese and Dahurian cranes (Grus japonensis, Grus vipio) have also
increased, with support from the Rare Bird Breeding Station in the Khingansky State Nature Reserve.
Other results include increase in populations and strengthened protection of: (i) melliferous bee Apis
mellifera (Shulgan Tazh State Nature Reserve); (ii) Ussuri triton Onychodactylus fischeri, Yankovskiy
carabus Carabus Jankowskii, narrow-chest carabus Carabus constricticollis, Maksimovich calosoma
Ñalosoma maximowiczi, (Ussuriysky State Nature Reserve); diver Gavia adamsii, black stork Ciconia
nigra, marmot Marmota camtschatica, Myotis Myotis ikonnikovi, Deschampsia Deschampsia
turczaninowii, Calypso Calypso bulbosa (Bargusinsky State Nature Reserve). The activities on the
ground, completed under the project by various PAs, have directly strengthened conservation of 568 rare
and endangered species.

C.    Lake Baikal Regional Program

18. The first participatory Biodiversity Conservation Strategy and Action Plan for the Baikal
Ecoregion are adopted by the sub-national authorities, endorsed by the federal government, and
under implementation. The Baikal Declaration, and the Public Agreement on the Conservation of the
Baikal Lake were effective instruments to bring together all stakeholder groups and insure broad public
participation and support. Extensive consultations and awareness campaign have raised significant
public interest in conservation, and triggered a large number of environmental initiatives from regional


                                                    - 28 -

governments and the locally based industry. Now the Strategy is integrated into the long-term
development programs for the region, including the Federal Targeted Program "Ecology and Natural
Resources of Russia 2002-2010". The Baikal Economic Forum of 2002 has supported the Strategy and
suggested to establish on its grounds a sustainable economic development program for the region.

19. The practical instruments, mechanisms and approaches required to implement the Baikal
Strategy on Biodiversity Conservation were established.

Legal and regulatory framework for biodiversity conservation in the region was strengthened.
Improvements included development of regulations in support of the Federal Law On Lake Baikal - to
address delineation of responsibilities for the protection of Baikal between the concerned sub-national
authorities and the federal government; establishment of an inter-regions coordination authority; and
development of regulations on recreational activities and etc.; as well as filling the other identified gaps
in the regional environmental legislation. All new recommendations to legislation were reviewed by
authorities and dozens of the proposed regional legal acts were adopted. Good results were achieved in
harmonizing sub-national environmental standards and their application procedures, professional
development of local layers in environmental law, and increasing the public understanding and
transparency of the legal and regulatory controls.

Economic mechanisms for biodiversity conservation were developed and implemented on the ground.
This included: (i) transfer to environmentally sound technologies in agriculture and forest management;
(ii) development and implementation in decision making of methodologies to define real economic values
of biological resources; (iii) establishment of a compensatory arrangements to address regional
disparities in potential development patterns; (iv) transfer of the industry to more environmentally
friendly processes; (v) establishment of investment and insurance vehicles to promote conservation; (vi)
development of eco-tourism and recreational use of land; and (vii) strengthening public environmental
management and governance.

Capacity to access and disseminate information for conservation purposes within the region has
increased significantly. A wide range of environmental information resources was established to
improve data exchange and communication. They include a web-based biodiversity conservation
meta-database, sectoral databases (Baikal Atlas, PAs, rare species, environmental experts, research
organizations, publications, tourism, socio-economic, etc.), other Internet resources, and numerous
publications. An inter-regional analytical center was also established.

Environmental and biodiversity conservation issues are becoming factored into the decision-making at
all levels of authority - sub-national, regional, municipal, etc. This is largely a result of extensive public
awareness and environmental education program completed under the project. Overall, more than
80,000 individuals participated in various project activities. Much training in biodiversity conservation
and natural resource management was developed and delivered to stakeholders. In particular: (i) dozens
of environmental education programs were introduced in secondary schools; (ii) environmental
information centers were established in 11 settlements and mobile centers operated in other areas as
well; (iii) 7 public environmental libraries were established; (iv) over 160 educational books and
materials, and 148 video films were developed and widely disseminated. Broad involvement and
participation of local people was supported by 300 articles in local press, 100 TV and 600 radio
programs. Over 3,000 school children attended 30 outdoor training camps and summer schools; 134
exhibitions were visited by 23,000 people; 20,000 people participated in over 60 public environmental
events; 12,000 people attended 303 thematic lectures; 2,000 - 130 excursions and expeditions; 2,500 -
50 other educational events. More than 70 environmental NGOs were established.


                                                  - 29 -

Based on the project experience, an innovative multi-stakeholder interregional governance structure
(Baikal Council) was proposed to ensure the long-term sustainability of the conservation effort in the
Baikal eco-region.

20. Model watershed-based biodiversity conservation programs were completed in each of the three
sub-national administrative regions. A set of replicable model projects were implemented in
Goloustnaya, Khilok, and Tugnuy-Sukhara watershed areas (Irkutsk and Chita Oblasts, and Buryatia
Republic respectively), resulting in improved natural resource management and mainstreaming of
biodiversity conservation in local economic activities and decision-making. The specific outcomes of
these programs are as follows:

Goloustnaya Watershed: Forest management was improved: (i) a nursery for closed root seedlings was
established and a reforestation was undertaken in selected areas; (ii) fire management and control
capacity was increased; (iii) shift was made towards more sustainable forestry operations through
economic analyses and increased environmental awareness; (iv) personnel was trained in
environmentally friendly forestry practices and management. Comprehensive environmental monitoring
was established with multiple partners. A Watershed Management Plan was developed and
implemented. Planning of recreational activities and impacts was improved. Biodiversity and
environmental awareness was raised among all stakeholders though the work with schools and
publications ­ environmental education is included in school curricula, developed education programs
are being replicated in other areas. Numerous conservation initiatives on the ground were implemented
(spawning bed restoration, preparation of the Red Book of herbaceous plants, establishment of the local
PAs, shore clean up, and others).

Khilok Watershed: Land use plan was prepared - planning was undertaken for the entire basin and
implemented in model sections; the whole watershed is now zoned. Biodiversity monitoring program
was developed, implemented in a PA (Ivano-Arakhleysky zakaznik), and a basin-wide monitoring effort
in underway. Improvements in forest management included: (i) forest restoration in burned areas; (ii)
strengthening fire detection and management capacity, as evidenced by decrease in areas burned ­ the
new system is being replicated in other parts of Chita Oblast; (iv) training of forestry personnel in
biodiversity conservation and fire management. Environmental education center was established in
Petrovsk-Zabaikalsky; numerous education programs for secondary schools, resource managers and
decision makers were developed and implemented. Watershed management capacity was greatly
strengthened through the improved information base, use of GIS, and the developed new structures for
integrated management of the basin.

Tugnuy-Sukhara Watershed: Land use plan was established and zoning undertaken accordingly.
Biodiversity monitoring program was developed and data management capacity was strengthened.
Agriculture practices were improved: (i) alternative/traditional breeds of horse and sheep were
introduced that cause less damage to grass cover and soils; (ii) environmentally friendly methods of
agricultural production were demonstrated and introduced; and (iii) methods to stabilize soils and
prevent erosion were developed and demonstrated on model territories. Forest Management was
strengthened, to include: (i) seedling propagation and afforestation of degraded lands, protection of
certain trees by developing a register, establishment of a GIS of forest resources; (ii) greatly improved
fire control capacity as demonstrated by much lower frequency of fire in basin compared to surrounding
territories, prescribed burns also undertaken and demonstrated; (iii) sustainable forest management
programs developed focusing on biodiversity friendly forest use; (iv) training delivered to forestry
personnel. Biodiversity conservation and resource management in local PAs (Altacheisky and


                                                 - 30 -

Tugnuysky zakazniks) was improved to include: (i) management plans prepared, protection capacity
increased, biodiversity inventories and analyses conducted, databases developed that are linked to work
plans; (ii) revisions to local PA legislation developed and introduced; (iii) environmentally appropriate
methods of land and resource use developed and implemented. Environmental and biodiversity
awareness was raised among all stakeholders from decision makers to resource users and local residents
- through numerous publications, education programs, work with local and regional media, and the
establishment of a regional environmental center. Watershed management capacity was strengthened
through (i) the development of a GIS, improvement in data quality, centralized data management, and
creation of a LAN; (ii) training of staff and managers; and (iii) establishment of innovative management
structure - the Committee for Natural Resource Management ­ which now serves as a model for
improving management in other regions.

21. Good results on the ground in biodiversity conservation and sustainable natural resources
management were achieved through the implementation of the Small Grant Program, which supported
364 various community-based conservation initiatives from over the entire Baikal eco-region. This
program was extremely successful in engaging multiple local stakeholders in direct actions in support of
biodiversity conservation and sustainable natural resource management. Activities undertaken include
numerous publications, education programs, clean up of spawning beds, creation of new PAs,
institutional strengthening by the preparation of new legislative proposals, reintroduction of species, and
many others. In particular, 8 new PAs were established with a total area of 21.7 thousand ha; selected
elements of the eco-net were identified and mapped; proposal packages were developed for 16 new PAs;
in a number of PAs management plans were introduced; 11 plantations of medicinal plants were
established; more than 30 lakes and small rivers were cleaned and rehabilitated; polluted grounds were
cleaned from more than 200 tons of heavy oil; re-forestation was made on 47.2 ha in the upper zone of
Khilok river; more than 150 thousand trees were planted to rehabilitate the degraded Lake Baikal coastal
area. The demonstrated effectiveness of the program and the experience gained has resulted in the
adoption of its procedures by the authorities of Irkutsk Oblast, municipal organizations and regional
donors as a vehicle to finance their own environmental initiatives.




                                                   - 31 -

10.3 Overview of project activities' locations




                                              - 32 -

10.4 Budget of the project activities (GEF proceeds, in US$ thousand)

              COMPONENT / Subcomponent / Activity                    Actually   Goods   Services  Small  Works
                                                                    Disbursed                     Grants

A.     STRATEGIC OVERVIEW                                              2,406.96   163.57 1,993.85  249.54   0.00
A.1.   National and Regional BD Strategies                             1,000.27     8.51   742.22  249.54   0.00

A.1.1  National BD Strategy                                              644.94     8.51   636.43    0.00   0.00
A. 1.2 Regional BD Strategies                                            355.33     0.00   105.79  249.54   0.00
A.2.   Biodiversity Policy Support                                       477.18     0.00   477.18    0.00   0.00
A.2.1  Stakeholder Work Groups                                            54.88     0.00    54.88    0.00   0.00
A.2.2  Analysis of Economic Linkages                                     280.54     0.00   280.54    0.00   0.00
A.2.3  Conservation Finance Mechanisms                                   141.76     0.00   141.76    0.00   0.00
A.3.   Biomonitoring Information System                                  929.51   155.06   774.45    0.00   0.00
A.3.1  Establishment of Information-Analytical Center                    557.95   155.06   402.89    0.00   0.00
A.3.2  Information System Projects                                       297.67     0.00   297.67    0.00   0.00
A.3.3  Biodiversity Atlas of Nothern Eurasia                              63.09     0.00    63.09    0.00   0.00
A.3.5  Info. management training and consultations                        10.80     0.00    10.80    0.00   0.00
B.     PROTECTED AREAS                                                 8,547.89 3,095.33 4,880.42    0.00 572.14
B.1.   Institutional Support                                             827.31   188.94   634.88    0.00   3.50
B.1.1  Strengthening of SCEP Department of PA                            267.35    75.14   192.21    0.00   0.00
B.1.2  Strengthening of FFS Department of Nat. Parks                     121.92    59.05    62.87    0.00   0.00
B.1.3  Creation of Joint Expert Council on PA                             71.28     0.00    71.28    0.00   0.00
B.1.4  Strengthening of Regional Associations of PA                      299.56    37.55   262.01    0.00   0.00
B.1.5  Strengthening of model Regional Zapo. Directorates                 67.20    17.20    46.51    0.00   3.50
B.2.   Operations and Planning                                         4,427.06 2,261.36 1,959.67    0.00 206.03
B.2.1  Development of Management Plans                                   704.38   149.66   440.62    0.00 114.10
B.2.2  Strengthening the Protection Services                           2,966.50 1,926.84   947.80    0.00  91.86
B.2.3  Establishing an Information Net                                   210.76    38.10   172.66    0.00   0.00
B.2.4  Establishing Ecosystem Monitoring Stations in PA                   22.50    12.68     9.76    0.00   0.06
B.2.5  Scientific Research Grants in PA                                  522.91   134.08   388.83    0.00   0.00
B.3.   Public Support and Education Programs                           2,468.03   488.30 1,619.81    0.00 359.92
B.3.1  System of model school projects of env. enlightment             1,323.68   393.94   756.30    0.00 173.43
B.3.2  PA public awareness campaign "March for Parks"                     64.40     3.81    60.59    0.00   0.00
B.3.3  Creation of field guides and exhibits in PA                        32.17     3.00    29.17    0.00   0.00
B.3.4  Creation of video materials on PA, for television                 192.02    41.90   150.12    0.00   0.00
B.3.5  Publication of Newsletter & Sci.-Pop. Journal of Conservation     107.99     1.41   106.58    0.00   0.00


B.3.6  Regional Env. Education Ctr. in Teberdinsky Zapo.                 392.87    44.23   162.15    0.00 186.49
B.3.7  Workshop of PA Directors                                          354.90            354.90    0.00   0.00
B.4.   Ecosystem Protection                                              655.67   147.22   505.76    0.00   2.69
B.4.1  Protection of Rare Species and Integrated Ecosystems              424.76   147.22   274.85    0.00   2.69
B.4.3  Creation of regional systems of PA                                230.91     0.00   230.91    0.00   0.00
B.5.   Training                                                          169.82     9.52   160.30    0.00   0.00
B.5.1  Work groups and workshops, dev-t of handbooks                      83.00     0.00    83.00    0.00   0.00
B.5.2  Writing of conservation academic courses for students and          86.82     9.52    77.30    0.00   0.00
       other forms of education




                                                            - 33 -

              COMPONENT / Subcomponent / Activity              Actually    Goods   Services  Small   Works
                                                               Disbursed                    Grants

C.     LAKE BAIKAL REGIONAL PROGRAM                               5,087.96    73.10 1,224.43 3,790.43   0.00
C.1.   Inter-regional Activities                                    719.28   64.37   339.58    315.33  0.00
C.1.1  Data and Information Flow                                    313.87    49.79   192.78    71.30   0.00
C.1.2  Policy Evaluation                                            123.73    14.58    16.06    93.09   0.00
C.1.3  Strengthening Legal/Regulatory Base                           96.41     0.00    18.79    77.62   0.00
C.1.4  Economic Perspectives                                         97.83     0.00    24.51    73.32   0.00
C.1.5  Regional BD Strategy and Action Plan                          87.44     0.00    87.44     0.00   0.00
C.2.   Goloustnaya Model Watershed                                  572.52    0.00   223.57    348.95  0.00
C.2.3  Environment-Economy Linkages                                 292.88     0.00    84.73   208.15   0.00
C.2.6  Environmental Education Program and Info. Ctr.                86.44     0.00    80.06     6.38   0.00
C.2.7  Grazing and Biodiversity Conservation                        193.20     0.00    58.78   134.42   0.00
C.3.   Tugnuy-Sukhara Model Watershed                               780.12    0.00   155.91    624.21  0.00
C.3.1  Land Use Plan                                                 98.63     0.00    28.25    70.38   0.00
C.3.2  Monitoring Program                                            88.26     0.00     9.50    78.76   0.00
C.3.3  Agriculture                                                  198.10     0.00    24.34   173.76   0.00
C.3.4  Sustainable Forest Management                                154.62     0.00    23.41   131.21   0.00
C.3.5  Managing for Biodiv. Conservation and Use in a PA             96.75     0.00    17.85    78.90   0.00
C.3.6  Env. Education and Extension Consulting Service               69.60     0.00    28.52    41.08   0.00
C.3.7  Watershed Management                                          74.16     0.00    24.04    50.12   0.00
C.4.   Khilok Model Watershed                                       626.16    8.73   419.02    198.41  0.00
C.5.   Local Biodiversity Initiatives                             2,389.88    0.00    86.35  2,303.53  0.00
C.5.1  Small Grants Administration                                  331.61     0.00    80.35   251.26   0.00
C.5.2  Small Grants Annual Programs                               2,058.27     0.00     6.00 2,052.27   0.00
D      PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                         1,908.03    85.49 1,822.54     0.00   0.00
Total amount USD (thousand):                                     17,950.84 3,417.49 9,921.24 4,039.97 572.14




                                                        - 34 -

10.5     Summary of Recipient contribution and counterpart financing (US$ thousand equivalent)

          Sources of Funds            Years     Amount                     Description
Component A. Strategic Overview
Federal Targeted Program (FTP)        2002         95      Research to support the implementation
"Ecology and Natural Resources",                           of the selected tasks under the National
subprogram "Conservation of rare                           Biodiversity Conservation Action Plan.
and endangered species of animals
and plants in Russia"
Federal Science and Technology      1997-2000     840
Program "Research and
development in priority areas of
science and technology for the
civil sector", subprogram
"Biological diversity"
FTP "Research and development in      2002         150
priority areas of science and
technology for 2002-2006"
FTP "Conservation of the Amur       1997-2000     170      11 anti-poaching teams and two Tiger
Tiger"                                                     special reserves established and
                                      2001         60      operational, Tiger population
                                                           monitored.
Regional and local budgets and      1997-2002      350    Implementation of the regional
non-budgetary sources.                                    biodiversity conservation action plans
                                                          (establishment of regional PAs,
                                                          publication of Red Data Books,
                                                          environmental education, etc.)
Federal and regional budgets and    1997-2001      100     Co-financing conferences, seminars,
non-budgetary sources                                      and public forums (includes the lease of
                                                           premises, traveling expenses of
                                                           participants, publication of materials,
                                                           etc.)
Federal budget                      1997-2003      72     Financing taxes under the GEF-funded
                                                          contracts for the Component A.
Sub-total A:                          1,837

Component B. Strengthening
Protected Area System
FTP "Governmental support to the    1997-2000    2,200     Establishment of 15 new PAs covering
state nature reserves and national                         more than 2.5 mln ha; support to the
parks"                              2001-2002    1,600     implementation of the GEF-funded
                                                           activities in 82 nature reserves and 19
                                                           national parks.
FTP "Ecology and Natural              2002         115    Research in support of biodiversity
Resources", subprogram "Support to                        conservation: 5 projects to expand and
the protected areas of Russia"                            replicate activities financed by the GEF
                                                          grant.
Funds raised by the federal PAs     1997-2002    1,300    Expansion and replication of
from various regional sources                             GEF-financed activities in strengthening
                                                          PA protection services, conservation
                                                          research, and environmental education.
Financing provided to the PAs by    1998-2002     170      Strengthening protection services and



                                                 - 35 -

the Russian donors                                    public environmental education.
Federal budget                     1997-2003    736  Financing taxes under the GEF-funded
                                                     contracts for the Component B.
Sub-total B:                         6,121

Component C. Lake Baikal
Regional Program
FTP "Protection of Lake Baikal     1997-2000   620    Biodiversity assessments in the Baikal
and Sustainable Use of Natural                        eco-region, planning of new PAs,
Resources in its Basin"                               evaluation of potential for the
                                   2001-2002    155   development of tourism, etc.
Co-financing raised from the local 2001-2002 11,500   Development of the regional PA
budgetary and non-budgetary                           network (10 new PAs designated),
sources by the small grants                           biodiversity assessments, development
program in the Baikal region                          of eco-tourism, and public
                                                      environmental education.
Federal budget                     1997-2003    179  Financing taxes under the GEF-funded
                                                     contracts for the Component C.
Sub-total C:                        12,454

Component D. Project Management
and Coordination
Federal budget                     1997-2003    155   Financing taxes under the GEF- funded
                                                      contracts for the Component D.
Sub-total D:                         155

Total                                        20,567




                                              - 36 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                 Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Reduced rate of decline of important species, Strengthen protection in substantial part of    Protection services strengthened in 35
habitats and communities within and outside federal PAs. Develop and test legal and           federal nature reserves and 3 national parks.
Protected Areas through intensified and          institutional base for regional PAs and      New management plans completed in 2
expanded conservation activities.                prepare development plans for econets.       reserves and 5 NPs. Total area covered by
                                                                                              improved protection is 14 million hectares
                                                                                              (40% of Russia's total federal PA system).




Note: see Section 10.2 for details on achievement of outcome and output indicators.
Output Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                 Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Reforms to the legal and policy framework at Achieve multi-stakeholder acceptance of the Key elements of the National Strategy and
different levels (regional, national and local): National and Regional Strategis and Action   Action Plan incorporated in the National
(i) production of ten sector studies, (ii)       Plans; mainstream mechanisms for their       Environmental Doctrine and in the Federal
completion of legal gap analysis and ten         implementation.                              Targeted Program "Ecology and Natural
legislative amendments, (iii) # of public                                                     Resources (2002-2010)". Regional APs
agreements effective.                                                                         approved by authorities in Nizhny Novgorod,
                                                                                              Penza, Saratov, Vologda.
Increased funding for the national biodiversity Sustained increase in federal funding for     FY2004 budget allocation for PAs and other
conservation system: annual budget               biodiversity conservation and ecosystem      environmental protection activities, including
allocations to protected areas.                  protection; accelerated increase of          Lake Baikal, to be increased by 12.5% from
                                                 non-budgetary funding.                       2003. Small grant activities in Baikal and
                                                                                              other regions yielded a 1-to-4.8 leverage with
                                                                                              attracted counterpart funding.
Delivery of a comprehensive suite of             To complete Project-supported training and   Total trained personnel: 1200. Textbooks
professional development and education           establish self-sustaining university and     published: 238. Certified courses for PA
activities: (i) # of personnel trained under the vocational training capacity in Russia.      managers established and operational in
project, (ii) # of text books produced.                                                       Educational Center Zapovedniki and at
                                                                                              Moscow State Univ.
Increased level of public participation by       To involve at least 50000 persons, including Total direct involvement in Project activities -
beneficiaries in all stages of project           specialists, in PA management and            110000 people, incl. local communites,
management and in conservation activities:       conservation activities.                     NGOs, businesses, academia. (14000 - in
(i) # of publications produced by the project,                                                Comp.A, 18000 - in Comp.B, and 80000 - in
(ii) # participants in project activities.                                                    Comp.C).
Establishment of a functional national           Establish and maintain national mechanism    Web portal www.biodat.ru fully functional,
biodiversity information center: # of users.     for collection, exchange and analysis of     with open two-way access to information and
                                                 biodiversity information.                    functionalities for interactive database
                                                                                              expansion. O&M responsibilities to be
                                                                                              transfered to Ministry of Natural Resources
                                                                                              (Dept. of PAs).
Development and achievement of ecosystem Maintain protection services in at least 30          Protection services substantially improved
management plan targets and objectives: (i) # PAs; develop management plans in at least       over 40% of federal PA areas. Management
of plans prepared; (ii) effectiveness of guard   10 PAs.                                      plans already completed and being
service (increase in the number of revealed                                                   implemented in 7 PAs.
poaches and illegal activities).
Local, national and regional coordination for    Support 10 regional PA associations.         13 regional associations supported.
protection of critical ecosystems: # of
regional PA associations established.
Effective implementation of selected Regional Develop 2 regional model Biodiversity           Regional strategies and action plans adopted
Biodiversity Strategies: (i) # of adopted        Conservation Strategies and Action Plans.    and being implemented in 5 regions. 20
regional strategies and # of regional                                                         more regions initiated preparation of action
regulations revised; (ii) # of public                                                         plans using own funds.
agreements and amounts of local
implementation funding secured.




                                                                     - 37 -

Development of an effective regional        Establish and launch regional mechanism for 42 exiting and new information resources on
biodiversity monitoring and information     collection, analysis and dissemination of   Lake Baikal Region systematized and
system for Lake Baikal Region: (i) # of     biodiversity information on Lake Baikal     cross-linked for open use under a web
parameters and data sources accessible; (ii)Region.                                     metadatabase www.baikalregion.ru
# of users of regional information system.
Development and implementation of model     Model watershed projects implemented in     Model watershed projects completed in
Watershed Management Plans in Lake          three administrative jurisdictions of Lake  Goloustnaya (Irkutsk), Sukhara-Tugnuy
Baikal Region: (i) area covered by the      Baikal Region.                              (Buryatia) and Khilok (Chita).
watershed management measures
implemented under the project; (ii) amount
and # of small grants awarded for local
initiatives.

1End of project




                                                               - 38 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
A. Strategic Overview                                        3.40            4.20            1.24
B. Strengthening Protected Area System                      13.80          15.90             1.15
C. Lake Baikal Regional Program                              6.30          17.60             2.79
D. Project Management and Coordination                       2.50            2.10            0.84

Total Baseline Cost                                         26.00          39.80
                         Total Project Costs                26.00          39.80
                  Total Financing Required                  26.00          39.80


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                           0.40             0.00         2.50         1.80          4.70
                                  (0.40)           (0.00)      (2.50)         (0.00)       (2.90)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00        13.30         2.90         16.20
Consultant Services,              (0.00)           (0.00)      (13.30)        (0.00)      (13.30)
Training and Study Tours
4. Community Investment            0.00             0.00         2.50         0.00          2.50
Grants
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.50)         (0.00)       (2.50)
5. Incremental Operating           0.00             0.00         1.40         1.20          2.60
Expenses                          (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.40)         (0.00)       (1.40)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           0.40             0.00        19.70         5.90         26.00
                                  (0.40)           (0.00)      (19.70)        (0.00)      (20.10)




                                                - 39 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                  1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB                NCB                   2           N.B.F.          Total Cost
                                                                              Other
   1. Works                                0.00               0.00             0.60              0.80               1.40
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.60)            (0.00)             (0.60)
   2. Goods                                0.00               0.00             3.40              2.20               5.60
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (3.40)            (0.00)             (3.40)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00             8.70              6.90              15.60
   Consultant Services,                   (0.00)             (0.00)           (8.70)            (0.00)             (8.70)
   Training and Study Tours
   4. Community Investment                 0.00               0.00             4.00              11.70             15.70
   Grants
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (4.00)            (0.00)             (4.00)
   5. Incremental Operating                0.00               0.00             1.30              0.20               1.50
   Expenses                               (0.00)             (0.00)           (1.30)            (0.00)             (1.30)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00               0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)
       Total                               0.00               0.00            18.00              21.80             39.80
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)          (18.00)            (0.00)            (18.00)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes: (i) goods procured through international and national shopping, and direct contracting; (ii) consulting services
       procured through Quality-Cost Based, Fixed Budget, Least Cost, and Single Source Selections; and (iii) small grants
       awarded on a competitive basis.

       N.B.F. (Not Bank Financed) - co-financing from the Recipient's domestic sources (see Section 10.5), and from the
       Government of Switzerland.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank       Govt.        CoF.        Bank         Govt.       CoF.       Bank      Govt.     CoF.
A. Strategic Overview           2.70        0.70                    2.40         1.80                    88.9     257.1
B. Strengthening Protected      9.30        3.40         1.10       8.60         6.10         1.20       92.5     179.4    109.1
Area System
C. Lake Baikal Regional         6.30                                5.10         12.50                   81.0
Program
D. Project Management           1.80        0.70                    1.90         0.20                   105.6     28.6
and Coordination
Total                          20.10        4.80         1.10       18.00        20.60        1.20       89.6     429.2    109.1

       Notes:
       1. "Govt. Financing" includes program co-financing from the Recipient's domestic sources (detailed in Section
       10.5). (For Component C - this includes leveraged counterpart funding from small grant recipients.)
       2. "Cofinancing" includes financing provided by the Government of Switzerland through WWF Russia for
       public environmental education and training of Protected Areas staff.




                                                          - 40 -

3. "Total Actual" Bank (GEF) financing is lower than "Appraisal Estimate" due to USD/SDR depreciation. The
GEF grant was practically fully disbursed in SDR terms.




                                                  - 41 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 42 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/1992                    2    Environmental Specialists

              02/1993                    3    Senior Biodiversity Specialist (C,
                                              TM)
                                              Forestry/Biodiversity Specialists
                                              (C)

              06/1993                    6    Senior Biodiversity Specialist (C,
                                              TM)
                                              Principal Resource Economist
                                              Environmental Specialists
                                              Forestry/Biodiversity Specialists
                                              (C)

              07-08/1993                 7    Senior Biodiversity Specialist (C,
                                              TM)
                                              Principal Resource Economist
                                              Environmental Specialists

              09-10/1993                 5    Senior Biodiversity Specialist (C,
              (pre-appraisal)                 TM)
                                              Principal Resource Economist
                                              Biodiversity Specialists (C)
                                              Environmental Specialist

              01/1994                    4    Senior Biodiversity Specialist (C,
                                              TM)
                                              Principal Resource Economist
                                              Principal Sociologist
                                              Biodiversity Specialist (C)

              06/1994                    1    Biodiversity Specialist (C)

              07/1995                    2    Senior Biodiversity Specialist (C,
              (pre-appraisal)                 TM)
                                              Country Counsel


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/1995                    3    Senior Biodiversity
              (appraisal)                     Specialist (C, TM)
                                              Biodiversity Specialist (C)
                                              Environmental Specialist (C)

              11/1995                    2    Senior Biodiversity Specialist (C,
                                              TM)


                                               - 43 -

                               Biodiversity Specialist (C)

           04/1996           6 Senior Biodiversity Specialist (C,
           (negotiations)      TM)
                               Environmental Specialist*
                               Environmental Specialist (C)
                               Biodiversity Specialist (C)
                               Country Counsel
                               Procurement Specialist*


Supervision
           11/07/1997        3 Senior Biodiversity                  S    S
                               Specialist (C, TM)
                               Environmental Specialist (C)
                               Country Counsel

           04/29/1998        2 Senior Biodiversity Specialist (C,   S    S
                               TM)
                               Environmental Specialist*

           09/16/1998        3 Senior Biodiversity Specialist (C,   S    S
                               TM)
                               Senior Forestry Specialist
                               Watershed Management
                               Specialist (C)

           05/02/1999        4 Senior Forestry Specialist (TTL)     S    S
                               Senior Biodiversity Specialist
                               Ecosystem Management
                               Specialist (C)
                               Project Management Specialist
                               (C)

           08/20/1999        6 Senior Forestry Specialist (TTL)     S    S
                               Protected Areas Specialist
                               Project Management Specialist
                               (C)
                               Watershed Management
                               Specialist (C)
                               Biodiversity Specialist* (C)
                               Head of the Resident Mission*
                               (portfolio management)
           02/2000           9 Senior Forestry Specialist (TTL)     S    S
                               Lead Natural Resource
                               Economist
                               Senior Biodiversity Specialist
                               Ecosystem Management
                               Specialist (C)
                               Environmental Specialist* (C)
                               Senior Procurement Specialist*
                               Procurement Specialist*
                               Disbursement Specialist*
                               Financial Management



                               - 44 -

                                               Specialist*

              07/15/2000                     2 Senior Forestry Specialist (TTL)     S    S
                                               Environmental Specialist* (C)

              10/09/2000                     6 Senior Forestry Specialist (TTL)     S    S
                                               Lead Natural Resource
                                               Economist
                                               Senior Procurement Specialist*
                                               Senior Biodiversity Specialist
                                               Environmental Specialist* (C)
                                               Watershed Management
                                               Specialist (C)

              04/27/2001                     3 Senior Forestry Specialist (TTL)     S    S
                                               Biodiversity Specialist* (C)
                                               Procurement Specialist*

              11/10/2001                     4 Senior Forestry Specialist (TTL)     S    S
                                               Senior Biodiversity Specialist (C)
                                               Biodiversity Specialist* (C)
                                               Procurement Specialist*

              06/17/2002                     3 Senior Forestry Specialist (TTL)     S    S
                                               Biodiversity Specialist*(C)
                                               Procurement Specialist*

              01/2003                        3 Senior Forestry Specialist (TTL)     S    S
                                               Biodiversity Specialist* (C)
                                               Procurement Specialist*

              06/2003                        6 Senior Forestry Specialist (TTL)     S    S
                                               Biodiversity Specialist* (C)
                                               Financial Management
                                               Specialist*
                                               Procurement Specialist*
                                               Institutional Development
                                               Specialist* (C)
                                               Watershed Management
                                               Specialist (C)


ICR


Notes: Staff marked (*) was based in Moscow.
Staff marked (C) are consultants.




                                               - 45 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           133.4                         409.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 35.1                           68.7
  Supervision                          166.4                         601.0
  ICR                                     4.0                          19.8
  Total                                338.8                        1098.7




                                            - 46 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 47 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 48 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1. GEF Project Document - Report No.15064-RU of May 1996

 2. GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement TF028315 dated September 29, 1996 for the Russia Biodiversity
       Conservation Project

 3. Technical report of the Recipient on the project outputs and outcomes (full version and illustrated
 summary ­ available in English and Russian languages)

 4. (A) Comments from the Recipient on the draft Bank ICR (original)
    (B) Comments from WWF on the draft Bank ICR (original)

 5. Assessment of the QAG on the quality of the project supervision, dated December 18, 2001

 6. Detailed supervision report on the completion of Project activities

 7. Project Maps:

     (i) IBRD 27085 - Vegetation Types and Protected Areas of Russia
     (ii) IBRD 27267 ­ Representativeness of Protected Areas of Russia
     (iii) IBRD 27290 - Lake Baikal Regional Component: Major Ecosystems and Protected Areas
     (iv) IBRD 27268 - Lake Baikal Regional Component: Land Use and Model Watersheds
     (v) IBRD 27289 - Lake Baikal Regional Component: Industrial Impact and Population




                                                 - 49 -

Additional Annex 8. Project Completion Report Prepared by the Recipient

      "Main Results of GEF-Financed Biodiversity Conservation Project in the Russian
                                        Federation (1997-2003)"

 Report submitted to the World Bank by the Ministry of Natural Resources of the Russian Federation
                                             on October 6, 2003

The GEF Grant Agreement between the Bank and the Russian Federation was signed on September 29,
1996 and became effective on November 27, 1996 through No.1130 Resolution of the Government of the
Russian Federation dated September 23, 1996. The Resolution made Russia's State Committee for
Environmental Protection responsible for controlling the proper use of the Grant proceeds. Prepared and
implemented by the Russian Federation with the support of GEF (through the World Bank) and the
Government of Switzerland (through Russia's WWF Program Office) in 1992-2003, the Biodiversity
Conservation Project is viewed by us as one of the largest and most successful wildlife conservation project
in Europe. The project included four components.

A.       The Strategy Review Component (13% of the budget) was to develop a biodiversity conservation
strategy and economic, financial, legislative, and information mechanisms to implement it.

B.       Protected Areas Component (53% of the budget) intended to support and strengthen the state
network of the Protected Areas while improving the territorial aspect of biodiversity conservation.

C.       The Baikal Regional Component (25% of the budget) wanted to establish the framework for
inter-sectoral and inter-regional coordination to enable incorporation of biodiversity conservation into the
policy of sustainable socioeconomic development of the Baikal Region.

D.       Project Management and Coordination (9% of the budget).

At the implementation stage, the Project was administered by the Center for Project Preparation and
Implementation (CPPI), and at the completion stage this responsibility was delegated to the FCGS
"Ecologia". The Project supervision was the responsibility of the Steering Committee comprising heads of
departments of Russia's State Committee for Environmental Protection (currently, it is Russia's Ministry
of Natural Resources ­ MNR), the relevant Project Components, representatives of Russia's Academy of
Sciences, and nongovernmental organizations. The Baikal Steering Committee was established to supervise
the Baikal Component.

The Biodiversity Conservation Project is a major investment wildlife conservation project in Russia
financed by the Global Ecological Fund. Under direct coordination and control of Russia's MNR, the
Project financed in 1997-2003 some 750 major, mid-sized and minor biodiversity activities, supported
82 reserves and 19 national parks, prepared and launched the Biodiversity Conservation Strategy and
National Plan of Action, Regional Biodiversity Conservation Strategies, and established the
institutional framework to improve ecosystem conservation in the Baikal Region.

Because of the Project, this country has witnessed cardinal changes in understanding the biodiversity
conservation issues. Currently, these are part of the documents governing the national environmental policy
including the Environmental Doctrine of the RF (2002) and the Ecology and Natural Resources Earmarked
Federal Program (2002-2010). The Project outputs were presented at the Johannesburg World Summit



                                                     - 50 -

(2002), the Bratislava and Hague Conference of the Parties to the Biological Diversity Convention (1998,
2002). Its results were approved at the GEF Kishinev Session for Eastern Europe (2003), with a
presentation prepared for the Durban World Congress of Parks (September, 2003).

The Project initiated new financial and economic mechanisms of nature conservation, published handbooks,
textbooks and popular science materials on various aspects of wildlife conservation, launched
www.biodat.ru, which has become a major biodiversity conservation gateway in Russia. In the world,
Russia is now viewed as a major "environmental donor". Throughout its implementation, the Project
provided information support to the federal environmental authorities.

The Project implementation stage coincided with the dramatic political and socioeconomic reforms in
Russia including several stages of transformations in the system of environmental protection. Nonetheless,
the Project attained all the main goals in maintaining and strengthening the basic elements of nature
conservation and in developing modern mechanisms of biodiversity conservation in this country, which
constitutes one eighth of the Earth territory. The Project is unique in that it involved over 110,000
individuals to practice conservation and rehabilitation of biodiversity, brought together all the main sectors
of the society including the available scientific and technical capacity.

The Project pioneered the collection, processing and accumulation of extensive biodiversity information in
Russia, which can be accessed by all users through www.biodat.ru The Project is unique in terms of the
scope of activities aimed at building public environmental awareness and advocating nature conservation
through mass media. It developed, tested and recommended for replication innovative approaches, tools and
mechanisms of biodiversity conservation.

1.       Support to State Network of Protected Areas (PA). The overall Goal of the Project was to
assist the Russian Federation in biodiversity conservation, which is consistent with the principles of
sustainable development while supporting the state network of protected areas pursuant to the obligations
of the Government of the Russian Federation under the Convention of Biological Diversity.

The adequacy of the Project priorities, goals and design is highlighted by its major outcome. Despite the
economic difficulties, this country counts now more protected areas with a larger acreage than at the start
of the Project. In 1996, there were 93 reserves with an overall area of 30.1 mln. ha and 30 national parks of
6.6 mln. ha, while in 2002, Russia had 100 reserves with an area of 33.712 mln. ha and 35 national parks
with an area of 7 mln. ha correspondingly.

The Project activities, focused on strengthening the institutional capacity of the government, contributed to
the establishment of an improved legal and regulatory framework for the PAs, with the ensuing stronger
administrative liability for violations of the reserve regime. It expanded the rights of the protected area
services, allowed an independent use of penalties, and restructured the reserve services from the
departmental forest services into a specialized state inspectorate.

To strengthen the PA Services, the Project implemented 39 model projects with budgets ranging from
$US 40,000 to 100,000 in 35 nature reserves and 3 national parks with an overall area of some 14 mln. ha.

The successful forms of governance support included meetings of heads of the federal-level PAs. In 2000,
the Krasny Poliana PA Meeting (Krasnodar Krai) agreed and adopted "The Main Directives for
Development and Organization of State Nature Reserves in the Russian Federation till 2010".

The Project supported regular comprehensive inspections of nature reserves and national parks.


                                                      - 51 -

Leading specialists of the MNR (former Russia's State Committee for Environmental Protection) and
contracted experts (researchers of the RAS, representatives of nongovernmental organizations) participated
in 84 field inspections in 38 nature reserves and 10 national parks.

The Project established 8 new National Park and Nature Reserve Associations, which conducted 34
regional workshops to coordinate research, improve environmental awareness, and strengthen the PA
Ranger Services. The workshops involved over 1,000 participants.

Most of the Component B proceeds (over 88%) were invested in the procurement of goods to ensure the PA
conservation-related activities. As a result, the PA renewed their fleets of auto-, motor-, and water vehicles,
procured fuel, spares, uniforms, overalls, field outfits, communications facilities, modern computer
hardware, and office equipment. This contributed to a considerable improvement of the PA Ranger
Services during the Project implementation.

Two reserves and 5 national parks adopted five-year management plans, which were developed by the
administration and specialists of the PA involved, with the extensive support of professional consultants
and specialists of other PA. New management plans were developed for the Caucasus and Kerzhen
Reserves, Kenozero National Park and some other national parks.

The Project supported research activities in 41 reserves and 9 national parks (totaling 62 projects). It
summarized and analyzed the research data accumulated by some reserves throughout the entire period of
their operation. The Project-supported research grants improved the physical infrastructure of the PA
research divisions, procured office facilities and equipment, published over 30 research monographs,
prepared over 500 publications in the national and foreign editions. It increased the number of contracted
researchers totaling more than 1,500 in 2001.

In 1997-2001, the Project supported PA-based environmental education of school students (the so-called
Model School Projects). The activities such as environmental summer camps, public lecture centers,
circles, ecological expeditions and excursions involved 156,990 school students (1997 ­ students; 2001 ­
73, 431). The Project initiated a visit center network and other PA-based information and education
points. The physical capital expenditure accounted for some US$ 750,000 or 75% of the Model School
Projects budget. At present, 15 PAs operate 22 visit centers, which have been visited by more than 80,000
people since 1997. The Project designed and developed ecological paths (footpaths, waterpaths, and
horsepaths in the Baikal, Voronezh, Katun, Kostomuksha, Pinezh, Sayano-Shushensky, and other reserves,
as well as in some national parks such as Vodlozersky, Kenozersky, Meshchera National Parks. In 2001,
they were visited by more than 47,000 tourists, almost 40 times more than in 1997. The Project also
equipped the Comprehensive Research Center of Environmental Education and Awareness in the
Teberda Reserve.

The Project-supported environmental awareness activity of the PA had extensive mass media coverage
including over 390 articles, 100 TV shows, and 45 radio broadcasts. The Project supported the publication
of 60 editions of the Nature Reserve News Newspaper, 10 numbers of the Nature Reserve Management
and Studies Journal, 18 numbers of the Nature Reserves and National Parks Information Bulletin, dozens
of books, methodological guidelines, and compendiums of research studies and monographs of the nature
reserves. At the Bryansky Les Reserve, the Project established a TV team, who shot the Wildlife Sequel
televised by 10 regional channels.

Establishment and successful operation of the Nature Reserve Environmental Awareness Center was
an important contribution to the Project implementation. The Center operation was financed by the US$ 1.2


                                                     - 52 -

million grant of the Government of Switzerland, channeled through Russia's Program Office of WWF. The
Center (i) developed the Concept of Public Environmental Awareness in State Nature Reserves and
National Parks of the Russian Federation, approved by the Rosleskhoz and Russia's State Committee
for Environmental Protection in 1998; (ii) published over 50 textbooks and methodological guidelines,
brochures, and booklets; and (iii) trained and continues training environmental educators for the PA. Its
development courses trained over 200 specialists from 127 nature reserves and national parks of Russia,
Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, and Uzbekistan. The training programs of the Center covered over
500 PA specialists from various walks of life, including representatives of the regional environmental
authorities, teachers, etc. The Center established a network of 40 nongovernmental organization-branches.
For the last 6 years, it has published the Reserve Islands Monthly Newspaper (circulation of 3000 copies).
The Center also supports the WildNet Server (www.wildnet.ru) and has been implementing a Volunteer
Program for nature reserves and national parks.

The Nature Reserve Center carries on, supporting the PA through its ongoing activity. Its development is
financed by the Moscow Government, Institute of Sustainable Communities, USAID, Embassy of the
Netherlands, USA Wildlife Service, UNDP, etc.

The Project supported a number of activities to improve territorial-based biodiversity conservation. The
Grant supported the development of the Environmental Frame of Russia's Central Plain Project, which
created 26 new PA, and the Environmental Frame of the Volga-Urals Region. The Project (i) initiated
environmental restoration of the steppe ecosystems at the new sections of the Central Chernozem Reserve;
(ii) developed a draft national strategy for the conservation of Bison in Russia, having created a 60 strong
Bison group at the Orlovsky Polesie National Park; (iii) financed the activities for the breeding of the Far
Eastern Crane, Black Stork, Whooper Swan in the Khingan Reserve and for the conservation of the Wild
Honey Bee population in the Shulgan-Tash Reserve (the population of the bee families in 1999-2000 was
the highest as compared with all the years of conservation).

The PA-oriented activities of the Project demonstrated effectiveness of the GEF Grant recipient, important
achievements in raising funds to cofinance the Project in cooperation with the Bank and other counterparts.



2.       Development of the National and Regional Strategies and Implementation Mechanisms.
Substantiation of the National Policy Priorities and development of the National Strategy of Biological
Diversity is one of the major outcomes of the Project. The Strategy Development involved (i) analytical
studies, among which of specific importance is the analysis of the attitude of various communities and
groups towards biodiversity conservation; (ii) identification of the relevant socioeconomic problems (such
as poverty alleviation, resource-based economy, development of domestic business, inadequate taxation
policies, etc.), which have an impact on biodiversity conservation; (iii) analysis of the positive experience
of biological diversity conservation in various sectors, etc.

In the course of the Strategy and Plan of Action development, the Project contributed to the establishment
of the system for inter-agency coordination and interaction between the government bodies and other
organizations concerned with the wildlife conservation. At the initial stage, the Inter-agency Committee for
Biodiversity Conservation became a leading government authority to coordinate this activity. Discussion of
the draft Strategy documents was organized by way of their dissemination, with the ensuing collection of
comments and proposals from the widest possible nongovernmental community concerned. The draft
documents of the Strategy were also repeatedly made available to the various agencies, nongovernmental
organizations, major corporations, and academic organizations. The State Duma conducted two discussions
of the Draft Strategy ­ at the High Ecological Council and at the Round Table of the Environmental


                                                     - 53 -

Committee. The Project organized an on-line e-conference and discussion of the subject.

The National Strategy and Directives of the Plan of Action for Biological Diversity were adopted by the
National Forum for Wildlife Conservation, which took place in June 2001. The Forum involved over
230 participants from different walks of life ­ academics, legislators and government officials of various
levels, entrepreneurs and army officers, nongovernmental organizations and funds, artistic community, and
mass media. The Strategy is viewed as a set of wildlife conservation priorities (identified by experts) for the
governmental, commercial, research and nongovernmental organizations. This is a framework document
covering all the sectors of Russia's economy. It was formally submitted to the Government of the Russian
Federation, the ministries and agencies, heads of Regional Administrations, relevant committees of the
State Duma, territorial environmental authorities, major corporations and nongovernmental organizations.

The Strategy served as a foundation for the National Plan of Action for Biological Diversity comprising
some 1,500 activities. The Plan of Action portfolio is used by the Government of the Russian Federation,
various agencies and regions to prepare the corresponding programs such as the Ecology and Nature
Resources Federal Earmarked Program for 2002-2010. The Strategy and Plan of Action were published
in the Russian and English languages in 2001, with the texts of both documents available at www.biodat.ru
and www.biodiver.org.

Given the interest of the various groups of the society in the development and implementation of the
National Strategy, the Project approach to its implementation focused on the concept of ecological
partnership in the form of the Social Contract for Conservation of Wildlife in Russia. This agreement is
open to all the parties concerned. The first stage of the campaign included some 30 public signings of the
Protocol for joining the Social Contract at different administrative and sectoral levels involving such levels
as governors and administrations of the constituent entities of the Russian Federation (Pskov and
Volgograd Oblasts, etc.), territorial environmental authorities, major corporations (Siberian Aluminum,
East Siberian Railway, Irkutskenergo, etc.), academic institutions, political parties, etc. The Social
Contract was furthered in the Baikal Region (The Baikal Declaration), in Murmansk and Volgograd
Oblasts, etc.

Under the Strategy Component, the Project also prepared and implemented a regional biodiversity
conservation strategy. Nizhniy Novgorod Oblast was selected as a pilot region. In 1998-2000, the Project
developed the Oblast Biodiversity Conservation Strategy and a detailed Plan of Action of Wildlife
Conservation, approved by the Oblast Administration. The Oblast prepared new legislative acts, plans for
the development of the PA regional network, prepared for publication the Nizhniy Novgorod Red Data
Book, and proposed new forms of intersectoral biodiversity cooperation.

Supported by the Project, the Nizhniy Novgorod models were adapted and replicated in other oblasts and
regions of Russia. For example, Volgograd Oblast adopted (through the Oblast Parliament) the Strategy
and Plan of Action of Biological Diversity, prepared draft oblast laws, initiated the establishment of new
protected areas, and implemented major activities for environmental education and awareness.

As a result of the Project support, some 20 regions started the preparation of the Regional Plans of Action
of Biological Diversity as the first stage of the National Plan of Action. As part of the approved regional
plans of action, some projects were competitively selected by the Project to be financed under the Small
Grant Program. Their positive outcomes, public response and the socioeconomic effect became a vital
foundation for promoting project-based activities in Russia and methods of the governmental support to
wildlife conservation.




                                                      - 54 -

The Project involvement in the development and implementation of the National Biodiversity Strategy
proved to be highly effective. It demonstrated a high degree of the attainment of the Grant goals,
cofinancing mobilization capacity, involvement of the public and representatives of various sectors of the
society in wildlife conservation, the quality focus of the Beneficiary, its learning capacity, and effectiveness
of cooperation with the Bank, other potential donors and information partners.

3.        Promoting Biodiversity Conservation in Baikal Region. The goal of the Baikal Component was
to develop a wildlife conservation policy for the three administrative units of the Baikal Nature Territory
(BNT) and agreed implementation action plan. The Component developed a package of strategic
documents, including (i) the Baikal Declaration; (ii) the Baikal Lake Ecosystem Conservation Strategy;
(iii) the Plan of Action for Lake Baikal Biodiversity Conservation; and (iv) the Social Contract for
Lake Baikal Nature Conservation. These documents were approved by the Government of the Republic
of Buryatia, Administrations of Irkutsk and Chita Oblasts, and the MNR of RF. Throughout 1999-2002,
they were published in the Russian and English languages (see also www.biodat.ru) and used to develop the
Subprogram "Conservation of Lake Baikal and Baikal Nature Territory" by the Federal Center "Ecology
and Natural Resources of Russia" for 2002-2010. The plan of action served as the basis for a number of
programs of the socioeconomic development at enterprises and territories of the Baikal Region.

By its scope and scale of public involvement, the process of the development of the Baikal Strategy and
Plan of Action of Biological Diversity has been the first national experience of such kind. The Component
activities resulted in over 70 Protocols for Joining the Social Contract and Baikal Declaration, as well
as a number of independent biodiversity programs adopted for implementation at some companies in the
Baikal Region. Under the Project, the biodiversity conservation principles were implemented by each BNT
administrative unit in model territories, such as the Goloustnaya River Basin in Irkutsk Oblast, the
Tugnuy-Sukhara River Basin in the Republic of Buryatia, and the Khilok River Basin in Chita Oblast.
Here, the Project assessed the state of biodiversity, identified mid-term and long-term priorities of nature
conservation, and implemented business planning process. For the Khilok River Basin, the Project
developed a land use strategy, including the forest use planning environmental audit of the territory, and
issued recommendations for nature use improvements. For the Tugnuy-Sukhara Basin, the Component
activity included planning for the development of agriculture and PA network. For the Goloustnaya River
Basin, the Component developed the Plan of Environmentally Sound Socioeconomic Development,
approved for implementation by the Irkutsk Oblast Administration. Another important output of the
Component activities in the model territories was the initiative for a market of "ecosystem services" in
the Baikal Region. The Component pioneered assessment of the nature resources value on the basis of their
contribution to the formation of the environment and climate, deposition of carbon, recreation potential of
the territories, etc.

Another effective element of biodiversity conservation management in the BNT was the Project-supported
Local Initiatives Program (LI) comprising some 300 projects, which were competitively selected out of
more than 1,500 applications. The Program pursued two main objectives of the Baikal component: (i)
attracting as many participants as possible to the conservation of the Baikal nature and (ii) building the
civil society attitude towards the priorities of the Baikal nature conservation. The Program featured
comprehensive and diversified innovative approaches and tools, making its results suitable for
implementation and replications not only in the BNT, but elsewhere in Russia and the world. For example,
the Project financed the establishment of artificial nesting grounds for rare bird species, a run of young
sturgeon at the Selenga Fish Farm, 11 plantations of medicinal herbs and cultural resources, 8 new PAs.
The Component established groundwork for the regional environmental network, supported PA volunteers,
carried out environmental rehabilitation, recultivation and cleaning of some sections of the Lake Baikal
Shore, carried out reforestation of 47.2 ha in the upper reaches of Khilok River.


                                                      - 55 -

One should specifically note the Project activities in BNT with respect to environmental education and
awareness building. Here, the Component organized 30 ecological camps, established information and
advisory points in the cities of Ulan-Ude, Chita, Petrovsk-Zabaikalsky, Severobaikalsk, Baikalsk, in the
Baikal-Lensk and Baikal Nature Reserves, developed several dozens local environmental educational
programs for children. In Mukhorshibirsky District alone, continuous environmental training programs
have been introduced in 21 schools and 14 kindergartens. The Project supported the shooting of 36 video
films and 112 video pieces, and financed 134 environmental exhibitions and expositions.

4.       Expanding Social and Economic Base of Wildlife Conservation. Another important outcome of
the Project is a change in the public perception of wildlife conservation issues through intensified
participatory approach. In 1997-2001, the Project-supported Park Marches brought together some
700,000­800,000 participants and practically all the reserves and national parks of Russia. The Social
Contract for Wildlife Conservation covered some 100,000 people, with more than 20,000 people
participating in the Baikal Day, Baikal Ecological Festivals and Marathons. In 1997-2003, directly
involved in the implementation of 750 projects and tasks were over 100,000 people (80,000 participants
were in the Baikal Component, 14,000 people participated in the Strategic Component, and 18,000 people
were involved in the Protected Areas Component) including representatives of nongovernmental
organizations, academic institutions and sectoral research institutes, etc.

Environmental education and public awareness building were priority areas in all the three Project
components, but the biggest coverage was in the Baikal Component, which implemented over 200
educational projects. These built the so-called "Baikal ideology" in the region. The Project addressed the
problems of wildlife conservation in the Baikal Region in more than 300 articles, 100 TV and 600 radio
broadcasts. The total circulation of the periodicals concerned is over 1,000,000 copies. The region enjoys
now 103 educational programs, methodological and training manuals, a system of continuous
environmental education in Irkutsk Oblast, the curriculum "Baikal Course", and the Regional Ecology
Standard in Chita Oblast. The Baikal Component supported the establishment of 73 nongovernmental
ecological organizations, including the Ecological Initiative NGO in Petrovsk-Zabaikalsk, Baikal Friends
Association in Buryatia, Baikal Center for Public Ecological Expert Review, Irkutsk Ecological Scientific
Youth Society, Baikal Ecological Center, etc.

The Project supported the publication of a unique series of manuals "Biodiversity Conservation" (15
manuals in 4 volumes) prepared on a competitive basis by the Moscow University Ecological Center.

The Project improved current and established new economic and financial mechanisms of biodiversity
conservation. It contributed to establishing in Russia new approaches and methods of the economy of
biodiversity conservation. Along with the implementation of positive international experience, such as
"green accounts", environmental and economic assessment of "ecosystem services", "debts for nature",
etc., the Project was proactive in the implementation of such domestic improvements as taxation regulation,
ecological insurance, establishment of funds (in the Baikal Region and Novgorod Oblast), compensation
payments for biosphere functions, etc. These studies were summarized in publications, which proved to be
in great demand among the specialists. The competition for dissemination of information on new economic
mechanisms involved over 40 organizations from some 20 regions. The Project implemented 19
subprojects for the implementation of new methods of economic assessment of wildlife, assessment of
ecosystem services for management planning including environmentally-oriented business, etc. The Project
summarized domestic and foreign experience in utilizing economic mechanisms for wildlife conservation
ex-situ.




                                                     - 56 -

The Project prepared a series of handbooks covering such themes as (i) regulatory and legal acts for
biodiversity conservation; (ii) approaches and methods for economic assessment of damage; (iii) economic
mechanisms of wildlife conservation, etc. Important outcome of the Project was methodological support to
the development of "State Methodology for Cadastre Assessment of Environmentally Important
Lands" (Roszemcadaster, 2002). This methodology incorporated criteria for economic differentiation of
land value depending on ecosystem services and biological diversification. This methodology has already
been used when assessing the value of land in some regions.

Proposals for the development of international financial cooperation to compensate for "ecosystem
services" are another innovation of the GEF-financed Project. For Russia, it is a number one priority, as
this country has 65 percent of the territory covered by undisturbed ecosystems, including those of
international importance, and bears all the ensuing cost, which is not small by any count. The
Project-supported proposals were used by the Government of the Russian Federation at the World Summit
for Sustainable Development in Johannesburg (September 2002). Detailed proposals were summarized in
various publications and published in www.biodat.ru.

The Project made a great contribution to information support of wildlife conservation in Russia. The
Project established and equipped the Information and Analytical Center for Biodiversity (IAC), which
serves as a mechanism of information exchange, research and technical cooperation - Clearing-House
Mechanism under the Convention of Biological Diversity. It features modern hardware, software, IT
systems and is staffed with qualified personnel. Following the Project completion, IAC will be transferred
to one of the organization of the MNR to ensure consistency of information support to biodiversity
conservation activities. Among its achievements are the preparation of the National Biodiversity Reports
(1997 and 2001) and 6 thematic reports summarizing the compliance of Russia with specific articles of
the Convention such as (i) alien species; (ii) biodiversity conservation in protected areas; (iii) biodiversity
conservation in mountain areas. The first National Report was published in the Russian and English
languages. The documents are available in www.biodat.ru. In accordance with the request of federal
authorities, IAC prepared over 200 information documents including those for sessions of the Government
of the Russian Federation, collegiums of Russia's State Committee for Environmental Protection and
MNR, State Council of the Russian Federation, etc. The Project-supported www.biodat.ru is an
information system of free access. Following the Project completion, it will become the main tool of IAC
and a platform for the intersectoral and interagency information exchange regarding wildlife conservation
in Russia. The www.biodat.ru contains the information collected under the GEF Project such as
contractors' reports, databases, methodologies, textbooks, handbooks, maps, references, etc.

The same approach was used to establish the biodiversity information system for the Baikal Region. The
Project developed a data metabase to ensure free access to the information on the current state of wildlife
and nature resources of the Baikal Region (www.baikalregion.ru) through a free access Web-server,
which also manages many other specialized sites reflecting the outputs of specific projects under the
GEF-supported Biodiversity Conservation Project in the Baikal Region.

Let us summarize the main achievements and innovations of the GEF Project. It preserved and strengthened
to a considerable extent the 80-year old PA network, which is one of the best in the world occupying some
2 percent of Russia's territory and constitutes an important element of the global PA network of
international importance. It developed and implemented modern mechanisms of biodiversity conservation
that meet the new socioeconomic realities of Russia. The Project identified wildlife conservation priorities
in the short-term perspective, established innovative approaches, tools and mechanisms of development to
further improve the national environmental policy for biodiversity conservation.




                                                     - 57 -

As for the improvements, these include (i) the National Strategy, built on partnership between the state,
business and various sectors of the society; (ii) the Small Grants Program as the in-situ system of
implementing biodiversity conservation challenges, tuned to specific conditions of Russia; (iii) the proactive
information partnership through www.biodat.ru; (iv) the methodology for the state cadastre assessment of
land value, based on the assessment of "ecosystem services"; (v) incorporation of environmental indicators
of land into the land statistics; (vi) management plans for the PA; (vii) establishment of regional PA
associations, etc. In addition to that, the Project made a great contribution to building environmental
awareness in the BNT. For example, the Project-sponsored Concept for Development of Lake Baikal
Conservation Legislation gained support of the State Duma of the Russian Federation. It served as the
basis for the development of 10 draft acts required to implement the FL "On Lake Baikal Protection".
Organization of the Baikal Council (a coordinating body, operating in accordance with the same principles
as the system of the Baikal Component Management under the GEF-financed Project) and of the Baikal
Interregional Territorial Body of Russia's MNR are under way.

5.       Financial Aspects of the Project. The total Project cost is assessed at US$ 39.7 million. An
important contribution of the Project is the promotion of new financial resources for wildlife conservation
in Russia. The GEF Grant proceeds in an amount of US$ 18.1 million (equivalent to SDR 13.8 million)
will be spent by the Project completion date, which is September 30, 2003. The main changes in the Project
budget were associated with the reduction of expenditures for some Project activities due to the
denomination of the Grant in SDR. The two year extension of the Project duration resulted in the increased
administration cost under Component D. In addition to this, the Project team reallocated the Grant proceeds
among specific tasks under the Components as agreed with the steering bodies (MNR and World Bank).
The financial contribution of the Russian Federation is about US$ 20.4 million consisting of (i) the
state budget allocations for federal earmarked programs (equivalent to US$ 6.0 million); (ii) the state
budget allocations for the payment and compensation of taxes and fees to the state budget under the Project
activities (over US$ 970,000); (iii) cofinancing of regional strategies and plans of actions, small grants
programs, and funds, attracted by the PA in 1997-2002 from various sources (US$ 13.42 million).

The Project contributed to the initiation of several major investment projects valued at more than US$110.0
million including the World Bank loans worth US$ 87.0 million. The Project initiated a number of new
GEF applications from Russia. It was the Project PIU, who prepared the Project "Implementation of a
Comprehensive Approach to Ecosystem Management in Model Territories for Biodiversity Conservation
and Reduction of Habitat Fragmentation in Russia's Part of the Arctic" (GEF/UNEP, 2001), supported by
the Russian Government and GEF. A number of follow up projects are under consideration in the MNR
including the project "Development of Territorial Approach to Biodiversity Conservation through
Ecology-oriented Land Use in Traditional Agricultural Regions of Russia in the Context of Land
Market Development". In 1997-2003, the Project results were used for the preparation of a number of
GEF/UNDP projects. The focus of all the project applications is to identify priorities in biodiversity
conservation and make the best use of learnings. One should specifically note that Russia has generated
national expertise in the management of international environmental projects, with good knowledge of the
international ecological money market and capacity to manage projects in accordance with the Bank
guidelines and Russia's legislation.

In conclusion, it should be noted that the Project implementation is overall successfully completed, the GEF
grant proceeds and the counterpart funds were used in a targeted fashion and with a high social, economic
and environmental effect. We consider it necessary to recommend dissemination of the positive experience
accumulated during implementation of this Project to the new GEF projects.

We wish to express sincere gratitude to the World Bank and first of all its Moscow staff, whose


                                                      - 58 -

businesslike and constructive cooperation allowed to implement the Project at a truly high level. The
detailed description of the Project results is presented in the full report (see ICR Supporting Document 3).




                                                      - 59 -

- 60 -

