                                     Documentof
                                  The World Bank




                                                        ReportNo.: 43497




                  PROJECTPERFORMANCE ASSESSMENTREPORT

                               RUSSIANFEDRATION


                      BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
                                 (TF-28315;TF-28647)



                                      May 9,2008




Sector Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)

Currency Unit = Ruble

2004                    US$l.OO                 28.489 Rubles



AbbreviationsandAcronyms


CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CBD             Convention on Biological Diversity
CPPI            Center for the Preparation and Implementation of InternationalProjects
                  of Technical Assistance
EFP             Environmental Framework Program
FFS             Federal Forest Service of Russia
GEF             Global Environment Facility
GOR             Government of Russia
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
IEG             IndependentEvaluation Group
ICR             Implementation CompletionReport
MNR             MinistryofNatural Resourcesofthe RussianFederation
MEPNR           Ministryofthe Environmental ProtectionandNaturalResourcesofthe Russian
                  Federation
NGO             NongovernmentalOrganization
PA              Protected Area
PIG             Project Implementation Group
PPAR            Project Performance Assessment Report
SCEP            State Committee of the Russian Federation on Environmental Protection
WWF             World Wide Fundfor Nature


FiscalYear

Government:             January 1-December 31




Director-General,IndependentEvaluation                  : Mr.Vinod Thomas
Director, IndependentEvaluationGroup (World Bank)       : Ms.CherylGray
Manager, Sector EvaluationDivision                      : Ms.Monika Huppi
Task Manager                                            : Mr.JohnRedwood

 IEGWBMission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthroughexcellenceand independencein evaluation.


About this Report
       The IndependentEvaluationGroup assessesthe programsand activitiesof theWorld Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank'sself-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bankswork is producingthe
expectedresults, and second, to help developimproveddirections,policies,and proceduresthroughthe
disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience.As partof this work, IEGWBannuallyassessesabout 25 percentof
the Banks lendingoperationsthrough field work. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment,preferenceis givento those
that are innovative,large,or complex; those that are relevantto upcoming studies or countryevaluations;those for
which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave requestedassessments;and those that are likelyto generate
importantlessons.
       To preparea Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR),IEGWBstaff examine project files and other
documents, interviewoperationalstaff, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operationwith the government,
and other in-country stakeholders,and interviewBank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquartersand
in local offices as appropriate.
       Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWB peer review, Panel review, and managementapproval. Once cleared
internally,the responsibleBank departmentcomments the PPAR on. IEGWB incorporatesthe comments as
relevant.The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrowerfor review;the borrowers'comments are attached to
the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of ExecutiveDirectors.After an assessmentreport has been sent to
the Board, it is disclosedto the public.

About the IEGWB RatingSystem
       IEGWB'suse of multipleevaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibilityto adapt to
lending instrument,project design, or sectoral approach. IEGWBevaluators all apply the same basic methodto
arrive at their project ratings. Followingis the definitionand rating scale used for each evaluation criterion
(additionalinformationis availableon the IEGWBwebsite: http:/hivorldbank.org/ieg).
       Outcome: The extent to which the operation'smajor relevantobjectiveswere achieved, or are expectedto
be achieved, efficiently.The rating has three dimensions:relevance,efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevanceof design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectivesare consistentwith the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressedin Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies,Sector Strategy Papers, OperationalPolicies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project's design is consistentwith the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives
were achieved, or are expectedto be achieved, taking into account their relative importance.Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved,or is expected to achieve,a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefitsat least cost comparedto alternatives.The efficiency dimensiongenerally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory,Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that developmentoutcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained(or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome:High
Significant, Moderate,Negligibleto Low, Not Evaluable.
       Bank Performance: The extent to which services providedby the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementationthrough appropriatesupervision (including ensuringadequate
transition arrangementsfor regular operation of supportedactivities after loanlcredit closing,toward the
achievement of developmentoutcomes. The rating has two dimensions:quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possibleratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory,Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower(includingthe government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparationand implementation,and compliedwith covenantsand
agreements,toward the achievementof developmentoutcomes. The rating has two dimensions:government
performanceand implementingagency (ies) performance.Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory,ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly
Unsatisfactory.


                                                                      iii


Contents

PRINCIPAL RATINGS              ...................................................................................................                      V

KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE                       .........................................................................................                   V

PREFACE     ....................................................................................................................                       vi1

SUMMARY      ....................................................................................................................                      IX

1.      BACKGROUND               ..................................................................................................                     1

2.      PROJECT DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION                                                  ...................................................          2

        Objectives    ..........................................................................................................................         2
        ProjectComponentsand Financing Plan                                  ......................................................................      2
        Project Design       ...................................................................................................................         3
        ProjectImplementation                ....................................................................................................       4

3.      EVALUATION FINDINGS                        ...................................................................................                  6

        Relevanceof Objectives                 ..................................................................................................        6
        Efficacy  ..............................................................................................................................         6
        Efficiency   .........................................................................................................................         10
        Risk to Developmentand Outcomes                              ............................................................................      10
        Monitoringand Evaluation: Design, Implementationand Utilization                                                       ........................ 12
        Safeguardsand Fiduciary Matters                         ................................................................................       14
        Bank Performance            ..........................................................................................................         14
        Borrower'sPerformance                  ................................................................................................        15

4.      LESSONS LEARNED                     .......................................................................................                    17

ANNEX A BASIC DATA SHEET
           .                                       .................................................................................                   19




This reportwas preparedby Colin Rees. an IEGConsultant. who assessedthe projectinNovember. 2006                                                         .
Soon-WonPak Drovidedadministratives u ~ ~ o. r t


                                                     V



PrincipalRatings
                                   /CR*                       /CR Review*                 PPAR

Outcome                          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                Satisfactory
Institutional                    Substantial                Substantial
Development
Impact**
Risk to                                                                                 Moderate
Development
Outcome
Sustainability***                   Likely                 Non-evaluable
Bank                             Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory               Satisfactory
Performance
Borrower                         Satisfactory               Satisfactory          ModeratelySatisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department.The
ICR Review is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.
**As of July 1, 2006, Institutional Development Impact is assessed as part of the Outcome rating.
***As of July 1, 2006, Sustainability has been replaced by Risk to Development Outcome. As the scales are
different, the ratings are not directly comparable.

Key Staff Responsible
Project              Task Manager/Leader               Division Chief/               Country Director
                                                       Sector Director
Appraisal                Andrew H. Bond              Jonathan C. Brown                 Yukon Huang
Completion               Andrey V. Kushlin         Marjory-Anne Bromhead           Julian F. Schweitzer


                                           vii


Preface

        This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Russian
Federation Biodiversity Conservation Project estimatedto cost atotal o f US$26.0
million. The project was approved inMay 1996for the Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund (TF 028315) Grant inthe amount of US$20.9 million equivalent (13.8
million SDR) with contributions from the Federation (US$4.8 million) and the
Government of Switzerland (US$ 1.1million). Final costs were $39.8, substantially
exceedingthe original cost estimate of $26.1;the additional amount came from Russian
sources. Counterpart contributions are estimatedat $20.4 million, compared to the
originalprojection of $4.8 million. The GEF Grant actually dispersedwas US$17.95
million; US$0.24 millionwas cancelled inJuly 2005. The difference inthe amount
approved and account total is due to exchange rate fluctuations: the US$ value was
reducedto US$18.1 because of the SDR devaluation. The grant was closed on 30th of
June 2003, some 15 months behindschedule.

        The findings ofthis assessment are basedon an IndependentEvaluation Group
(IEG)missionto Russia inOctober/November of 2006 and review ofproject documents.
Key documentary sources consulted include: World Bank and other project files, the
GEF Project Document andthe ICR; project-related reporting and evaluation; and, and
conservation studies and evaluation reports generatedinRussia. The mission met in
Moscowwith staff from the RussianFederation, NGOs and other donor agency staff. Site
visits were paidto Ulan Ude, Nizhney Novgorodand St Petersburgto meet with regional
government staff, localNGOs and villagers. This report draws heavily uponthe technical
reports and inputsof team membersinWashington DC and inMoscow and government
staff, the donor community andNGOs inRussia.

        The IEGteam gratefully acknowledgesall those who made time for interviews
andprovided documents andinformation.

        Following standard IEGprocedures, copies of the draft PPAR was sent to the
Government for comments, but none were received.


                                              ix


Summary

       The RussianFederationBiodiversityConservation Project was a core component
of the Environment Framework Program also supported by a (separate and broader)
Environmental ManagementLoan from the World Bank (US$llO.O million approved in
February, 1995). The overall objective ofthe project was to assist the RussianFederation
maintain optimum levels of biodiversity inaccordancewith the principles of economic
and environmentally sound sustainable development. Specific objectives included: i)
supporting the development of federal andregional biodiversity strategies; ii)developing
andimplementing mechanisms and approachesto mainstreaming biodiversity
conservation and environmental protection into the policy makingprocess; iii)assessing
the protected area institutional framework and strengthening its effectiveness; iv)
enabling the participation of all interested stakeholders, including aboriginal peoples and
local communities, inbiodiversity conservation; and, v) developing an inter-regional
demonstration of inter-sectoral biodiversity conservation and environmentally sustainable
natural resource management.Management of the project was the overall responsibility
of the Ministry ofNaturalResources (MNR). A Project Implementation Group (PIG) was
establishedto administer project activities, including procurement, financial management
andtechnical supervision.

        The relevance ofthe project objectives rated substantial. The project was fully
consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) andthe Federation's
development priorities. The global objective of conserving biodiversity incritical
ProtectedAreas (PAS)inamega-diversity country is incompliance with the Convention
on BiologicalDiversity (CBD) and GEF Council deliberations. However, the project
design proved overly ambitious involving some 60 major tasks andnumerous sub-tasks
involving numerous organizations and individuals at national, regional and local levels of
government, academia andNGOs. This subsequently requiredsupportive action during
implementation by boththe Borrower and the Bank and suggests that fewer tasks and
simpler design arrangementswould have beenappropriate inmeetingthe project's
objectives.

        Theproject's outcome is rated satisfactory overall. The project benefits proved
durable inthe face o f ministerial reorganization and PIG disruptions (eg, leading to
problems with contractual disbursements in2002/03) andthe many demands upon newly
establishedinstitutions and inexperiencedindividualsat all levels of government.

       Risk to development outcome is rated moderate. This is determinedon the basis
of a wavering financial commitment to federal andregional conservation strategies and
support to updatedaction plansby the regions and to enhancing the performance ofthe
national system of PAS).Less indoubt is the adoption of policy instrumentsinfavor of
biodiversity conservation and the continence of technical and organizational and
managerial innovations inthe regions and their replication inareas not covered by the
project.

                                              X



         The dissolution ofthe Ministryof Environment in2000 andthe merger of its
activities with MNRimpairedthe momentumfor addressingenvironmental and
conservation issues built up inthe late 1990's. Regional offices of the existing MNR
struggle to maintain allocations for conservation activities and implement stipulated
measures.More encouraging has beenthe diligent attention to monitoring and evaluating
performance following completion ofthe project by government agencies andNGOs. A
significant contribution to sustainability has involvedthe buildingof public awareness
andenvironmental education bythe ProtectedAreas. Traininginpublic awarenesswas
provided to 150professionals from 13 PASand model school projects were completed in
18 PAS.However, the most significant long-term contribution likely centered on the
development of networks of areas under protection ("econets") to interconnect existing
andnewPASandthereby step upthe protection of criticalhabitats andwildlife migratory
routes by sub-national and local authorities.

         Despite difficulties inmaintaining allocations for conservation, there is good
evidencethat the continuous and deep commitment of technical and administrative staff
of the MNR and regional authorities, NGOs and academiaduringproject preparationand
implementation produced a very positive institutional development impact. The capacity
of federal authorities to administer and enhance the PA system has been significantly
improved through more effective operational communication betweenthe MNRandthe
130PASunder itsjurisdiction; equally, gains have beenmade with the establishment and
use of management.

         Overall, the Bank's performance i s rated satisfactory for preparation and
implementation though inthe latter case, only following the project's mid-termreview.
The Bank dedicatedconsiderabletime and effort to the project, recognizing that the
institutional and legal arrangements were intransition andthat a partnershipwith
counterpartsand other stakeholders was critical to gaining ownership and commitment.

         TheBorrower'sperformance is ratedmoderately satisfactory at the central level,
particularly inthe later stages of implementation when there were major problems over
central administration, including disbursementissues, tax arrangements and major
organizational changes, including the elimination of the Ministryof Environment.

         The experienceof preparing and implementing the project provides useful lessons
for future biodiversity conservation efforts inthe Federation andneighboring countries.
These include:

        Securing budgetsfor conservation at the regional level as soon aspossible. As
         with many conservation projects supportedby the Bank/GEF, a commitment by
        the government to allocating resources for the longer term needs to be secured
         and arrangementsfor a stable funding mechanism(and possible co-financing by
        bilaterals andNGOs) stipulated and agreedduring project preparation. While the
        budget for environmentlconservation of the model regions has seen increases,
         overall allocations for conservation have beenreduced.

                                     xi


Facilitating participation of NGOs and academiato supplementgovernment
financial and human resources. Duringpreparation and start-upof the project,
international NGOs were critical inprovidingtechnical expertise indefining
priorities and structuring of components and organizational requirementsand in
partnering national and localNGOs with government agencies; suchNGOs
proved instrumental during implementation insustaining the commitment of
federal and regional authorities and inproviding the "glue" for effective
partnershipsbetweengovernment agencies and local communities throughout the
project. This endures following project completion.

Usingaprogrammatic approachfor complex and challenging conservation
projects. A programmatic approachor another phasing instrument may be more
appropriate inobtaining tractability inthe short-term and sustainability inthe
long-term. This would have been especially appropriate giventhe 60 major tasks
and numerous sub-tasks spreadacross Russia, involving national, regional and
local governments and staff from NGOs, academia and the generalpublic.

 Integrating conservation with regional/local planning commensuratewith
projected needs to conserve biodiversityat ecosystem,species and genetic levels.
For future projects, priority should be givento better integration of PAs with the
growth of local economies basedupon enhancedecosystem services andto
adapting emerging tools (eg, for agricultural landmarketregulation and
management) to support restorationof ecological units, especially for application
inthe most heavily degradedagrarianregions.




                                                          Vinod Thomas
                                                         Director-General
                                                            Evaluation


                                             1


1. Background

1.1     The RussianFederation contains animpressive biologicaldiversity spreadover
eight broad natural zones (polar desert, tundra, forest-tundra, boreal coniferous and
broad-leaved forest, steppe, semi-desert and desert) containing diverse habitats and
species of exceptional uniqueness and endemism.Though much o f Russia's biodiversity
falls outside the ProtectedAreas system, inthe early 1990sthe systemwas the largest and
one of most important and best maintained inthe world.

1.2      Thetransition ofthe Russianeconomy inthe 1990sbrought major institutional
changes to all sectors andthe transformation of governance structures andthe capacity of
the Government to assure biodiversity conservation and natural resourcesmanagement
was severely compromised. Agricultural and forest resourceuse sufferedfrom constantly
changing and inconsistent administrative andregulatory procedures, frequently
exacerbatedby uncertainties over landreform andprivatization. Many of the
responsibilities for policy implementation resultedinloss of coordination and
commitment. Inparticular, the ProtectedArea administration suffered from a fragmented
institutional structureproducing lapses indirection, efficiency and financial support.

1.3      The BiodiversityConservation Project was preparedduring the early 1990sas an
initial phase of support to the RussianFederation. Ithadthe overall objective of ensuring
the conservation ofglobally significant biodiversity withinand outside protected areas
andwas to be implementedinconformance with the Government's obligations underthe
Convention on BiologicalDiversity andthe principles of economic and environmentally
sound sustainabledevelopment. The project was a key element of the Environmental
Framework Program (EFP) preparedby the Government andthe Bank in 1994 and was
associatedwiththe Bank-funded Environmental ManagementProject (EMP) designedto
provide financing for the Program. Although financially distinct from the EMP, the
Biodiversity Conservation Project consistedof the core biodiversity component of the
EFP and was implementedunderthe same organizational arrangements. Thus, the then
Ministry of Environmental Protection andNatural Resources (MEPNR), with the
participation of the Federal Forest Service (FFS), had overall responsibility for execution
of the project delegating some administrative functions to the Center for Project
Preparationand Implementation (CPPI) establishedunder the EMP.

1.4      Giventhis background, the project benefitedsubstantially from a Project
PreparationAdvance by developing a methodology and identifying organizational issues
as well as deriving lessons learned from bilateral and NGO-fundedprojects being
implementedat the time ofpreparation andimplementation.

                                             2


2. ProjectDesignandImplementation

Objectives
2.1     The overall objective ofthe project was to assistthe RussianFederation maintain
optimum levels of biodiversity inaccordance with the principles of economic and
environmentally sound sustainabledevelopment. Specific objectives included: i)
developing federal and regional biodiversity strategies; ii)developing and implementing
mechanisms and approachesto mainstreambiodiversity Conservationand environmental
protection into the policy makingprocess; iii)assessingthe Protected Area institutional
framework and strengthening its effectiveness; iv) enabling the participation of all
interested stakeholders, includingaboriginal peoples and local communities, in
biodiversity conservation; and, v) developing an inter-regional demonstration of inter-
sectoralbiodiversity conservation and environmentally sustainable natural resource
management.


Project Componentsand FinancingPlan
        The project consistedofthe following components:

        Strategic Overview (estimated costs $3.4 m; actual $4.2m): i)development of
        national andregional biodiversity strategies; ii)biodiversitypolicy support; and,
        iii)establishmentofabiomonitoringinformationsystem(BIOTA);

        Strengthening Protected Area Systems (estimated costs $13.8m; actual $15.9m:
        i)institutionalsupport,includinginteragencycoordination;ii)supportto
        ProtectedArea (PA) operations andplanning; iii)support for public participation
        and education programs; iv) ecosystemprotection; and, (v) training of PA staff;

        Lake BaikalRegional Program (estimated costs $6.3m, actual $17.6m): i)inter-
        regional biodiversity conservation strategy and action plan, includinganalysis of
        linkages betweeneconomics and environmental protection; ii-iv) model
        conservation activities inthree participating regions; and, v) small grants program
        for local initiatives; and

        Project Management and Coordination (estimated costs $2.5, actual $2.1):
        establish and maintain the Project Implementation Group (PIG) inthe Ministry of
        Natural Resources (MNR) for project implementation and coordination with other
        conservation activities withinthe Federation.


        Final costs were $39.8, substantially exceeding the original cost estimate of $26.1;
the additional amount came from Russiansources. Co-unterps contributions are
estimated at $20.4 million, comparedto the original projectiono f $4.8 million   -- largely
for regional government and private counterpart financing o f the regional conservation
strategies and action plans, small grantsprograms and federal budget allocations for

targetedprograms inbiodiversity conservation; funds were also raised by PA authorities
from various sources. The MTR mission of February2000 noted delays in
implementation, especially of the Lake BaikalRegional Program (component). However,
a formal restructuring or reallocation of disbursementwas not considerednecessary and
steps were adoptedto accelerate implementation and resolve managementissues.

2.4     Since the signing of the grant agreementfor the project in 1996, the U S dollar
value of the SDR denominatedgrant fell from ~ ~ $ 2 0million equivalent to US$ 18.1
                                                           . 1
million equivalent. However, the balancewas compensatedby significantly increased
counterpart program co-financing and allowed all plannedactivities to be completed.


Project Design
2.5     The project was one ofthe earliest inthe pilot phase ofthe GEF and its
preparation presentedchallenges to the Bank and the Federation. The latter's
unfamiliarity with Bank operational requirements, proceduresand practices meant
extensive discussions and building of ownership and understanding at all levels of
government. Inparallel, the Federation hadto establish newnation-wide operational
policies, especially those channeling grant financing to ProtectedAreas and other
regional beneficiaries. Consequently, preparation was prolonged (28 months) and
requiredextensive dialogue betweenthe parties to ensure confidence andcommitment to
project objectives.

2.6     Project preparation drew on internationally acquired lessons learnedfrom on-
going biodiversity initiatives and studies by funding agencies and international NGOs.
Principal among these were the needto: establish a national strategic framework for
biodiversity policy; involve local people andregional administrations inproject design
andimplementation; build infinancial sustainability andlong-term commitment bythe
Government; use macroeconomic and sector policies inestablishing incentives for
resource conservation; and, expandthe ProtectedArea system inthe context of regional
strategic needs. The project's objectives and components were largely coincident with
lessons learned and capitalized uponthe experience of other countries inmainstreaming
biodiversity conservation.

2.7     The Project Document recognized the challenges facing the Federation duringthe
transition period andprovided atractable approachinstrengthening institutions at the
national andregional levels and incommitting all parties (including the public) to a clear
set of detailed objectives and deliverables. Criteria for selection of the sevenregionshites
(Northwestern Russia, Center of European Russia, Upper and Middle Volga, Northern
Caucasus, Lake Baikal, Southern Siberia and the Far East) included ecologically
representativeregions of highbiodiversity value, the needto safeguardrare and
endangeredspecies and level of threat and quality of management.Lake Baikal was
singled out to provide apractical regional demonstration of inter-sectoral and
administration coordination necessary for the incorporation of biodiversity conservation
into a development policy inclusive of sustainable economic and social welfare targets.

2.8     Some 60 major tasks and numerous sub-tasks were spread across the entire
Federation covering national, regional and local levels of government and involving

                                             4


manystafffrom NGOs and academiaand membersofthe public.This subsequently
requiredsupportive action during implementation by boththe Borrower andthe Bankand
suggests that fewer tasks and simpler design arrangementswould have beenappropriate
inmeetingtheproject's objectives.

2.9     Key stakeholdersparticipated inappraisalandthe project benefitedfrom major
inputs from at federal, regional andlocaladministrations, localcommunities and national
and international NGOs.


ProjectImplementation
2.10    Managemento fthe project was the overall responsibility of the Ministryof
NaturalResources(MNR), previously the Ministry of Environmental Protection and
Natural Resources (MEPNR). A Project ImplementationGroup (PIG), withinthe Centre
for the Preparation and Implementationof International Projects of Technical Assistance
(CPPI), was establishedto administer project activities, includingprocurement, financial
managementand technical supervision. The CPPI was re-organized in2002 and PIG staff
and resources were transferredto the Center for Investment Projects Ozone" (CIO
                                                                     "
"Ozone") andthen soon after the Federal Center for Geo-ecological Systems Ecologia"
                                                                                "
(FCGS Ecologia) -both affiliates of MNR. Under MNR, the Project Supervisory Board,
representingkey governmental andNGO stakeholders, evaluatedproject performance
and supportedthe coordination ofnational level activities. Duringthe project's early
implementation, the Government Commission on Environmental Protection for Lake
Baikalandthe Inter-Ministerial Commission on Environmental Protection andthe Use of
Natural Resources supplementedinter-agency coordination. Both of these commissions
ceased to exist following government reorganization in2000 when all major functions
were amalgamatedunder MNR.

2.11    All parties acceptedthat the project wouldplace extraordinary demandsupon
implementation capacity, especially inatime of transition and inmeeting the often-
complex procedural requirementso fthe Federation, the Bank and the GEF. Equally,
challenging was the tracking of over 60 major tasks and numerous sub-tasks referredto
above. Consequently, the Federation andthe Bank dedicatedincreasedresourcesto
supervision of performance during implementation. Nonetheless, a number o fproblems
emergedincluding: interruptions following the transfer of the PIG to different
implementing agencies in2002 and 2003 (without divestiture of responsibilities); the
inflexibility of procurement procedures (eg, requiring changes to the legal title of about
750 project-administered contracts); disruptions infunding of PIG'Soperating costs, and,
inadequateprocedures for the implementation of small tasks and co-financing
arrangements.

2.12    Inter-agency coordination was also disruptedwhen the Ministryo f Environment,
the Inter-ministerial Commission on Environmental Protection andthe Use ofNatural
Resourcesand Governmental Commission for the Protection of Lake Baikal were
scrappedunder the 2000 reorganization. All key functions of these agencies were later
mergedwithinthe MinistryofNatural Resources(MNR).Nonetheless, MNRprovided
technical support; the Project Supervisory Board gave advice onperformance monitoring
and stakeholder participation and Project and Component Directors supported PIG

                                             5


operational decisions. Inaddition, the Federation mobilized further budget support to
expandproject activities as part of national and regional conservation programs and
helpedsecureNGO co-financing.

2.13    The Banktook the step of decentralizing its management of the project from
Washington DC to the Moscow office following the MTR exercise inearly 2000. The
MTR (delayed from 1998)rated progress as satisfactory, but noted administrative,
financial andprocurement difficulties stemming inpart from inadequatemonitorable
"outcome and output linked" project indicators. The Russianauthorities did not
appreciate the value and importance of project monitoring and there was areluctance to
restructure and realign responsibilities betweencomponentsto improve coordination and
achieve overall project objectives.

2.14 MTRrecommendations included introduction of a revisedproject reporting system
with agreed indicators and a revised procurement plan(Bankresponsibilities for
procurement being delegatedto the Bank's Moscow office and simplified procedures
entered into the Operational Manual). Reports were to be updated quarterly andtraining
of CPPI staff inthe revisedprocurement guidelines was to beginimmediately. On
substantivematters, project funding for new PASwas to discontinue, the number of
regional biodiversity strategiesto be reducedthe eight Protected Area managementplans
to sevenwith a focus on strengtheningtheir implementation. The Conservation
Monitoring Center was taskedwith coordinating the informationmanagement activities
of all componentsandthe Baikal Regional Program was to focus on supporting public
commitment to the inter-regional strategy and establish regulatory tools for
implementation of the Federal Law on Protecting Lake Baikal. Small grants and model
watershed sub-componentswere to speed up actions to improve local biodiversity
conservation by the sector agencies.

2.15    The MTRalso notedthat little progresswas being made on developing alternative
approachesto financing biodiversity conservation. An associatedAide Memoire provided
detailed review of progress and agreedtime bound actions covering indicators and project
monitoring, procurement and component specific actions. Day-to-day supervision and
regular support for financial management and disbursementand procurement was
accordingly decentralized to the Russia Country Office. Inaddition, the Bank maintained
close supervision andprovidedextensive support to the implementation ofthe 60 main
tasks and sub-tasks spread over the entire country.

2.16    The transfer ofthe PIGfrom the CPPI first to CIP Ozone andthento FCGS
Ecologia resultedininterruptions incontractual disbursementsand blocked funding for
PIG operating costs from August 2002 to February 2003 causing delays in
implementation and posing significant risks to project completion. Following enactment
of the new Budget Code during the same period, the government failed to adjust and
launch relevant procedures for provisionof co-financing of taxes and duties under the
project. This causedineligible expenses to be incurred -- later refundedby the MOF to
the Bank. Though given constant support by the Bank, anacceptable co-financing
arrangement was establishedonly inmid-2003, a few months prior to project completion.

                                             6


2.17   Key stakeholdersparticipated inappraisalandthroughout implementation andthe
project benefitedfrom constant inputs from regional administrations and local
communities. Mechanisms were deployed to involve local people inthe managementof
ProtectedAreas and have proven valuable inimprovingthe financial sustainability of
ProtectedAreas. Increasingly, biodiversity conservation issues have played amajor role
innational policy-makingand strategic planning andpublic dialogue. Underthe Lake
Baikal Regional Program component, a sub-component       -- LocalBiodiversityActivities -
provided small grants to institutions, NGOs, local communities, businesses and
individuals to encourage small-scaleprograms and the participation of native
populations, remote settlements and women.

2.18   The project closed inSeptember2003 havingbeenextendedtwice from the
original closing date of May 2002 at the request of the government. This was to permit
completion o f summer fieldwork inPASand Baikal model watersheds disruptedbecause
of delays incontractual disbursements

3. EvaluationFindings

Relevanceof Objectives
3.1    Project relevanceis rated substantial. Project was fully consistentwith the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), the Federation's development priorities, andthe
global objective of conserving biodiversity incritical protected areas inamega-diversity
country is in compliance with the Convention on BiologicalDiversity (CBD) and GEF
Council deliberations. It should be noted that international and national and localNGOs
continue to support and builduponthe project's objectives. The preparatory work in
agreeing specific objectives proved very relevant inmoldingthe Bank's Natural
ResourceManagement Strategy (2000) and the Environment Strategy for the World Bank
(2001)' the CAS of 2002 and, following completion o fthe project, the Biodiversity
Strategy for the ECA Region (2003).


Efficacy
3.2    Efficacy is rated substantial. The project objectives proved durable inthe face of
ministerial reorganization and PIG disruptions (eg, leading to problems with contractual
disbursementsin02/03) andthe manydemandsuponnewly formed institutions and
inexperienced individuals at all levels of government. The basis for this rating is
elaboratedbelow.

Objective1: Thedevelopmentof federal and regional biodiversitystrategies
3.3    This objective was achievedthrough the provision of aNational Biodiversity
Conservation Strategy andAction Plan andtwo model regional strategies (Nizhny
Novgorad and Volgograd Oblasts). The Strategy involvedextensive consultations and
proved essentialinstakeholderandpublic endorsement of conservation efforts and
helpedlaunch new economic, financial, legislative and informationmechanismsto
promote their implementation. Specifically, the Strategy and Action Plan was developed

                                              7


by national agenciesinparallel withthe model regional strategiesand action plans, the
latter beingtested and widely replicated inmore than22 regions. Action plansare being
or have beenupdatedinmany Oblasts with atime horizonof 2010.

3.4     A packageof some 1,500 investment proposals, developed insupport ofthe
NationalAction Plan, was proposedfor financing through the federal targeted program
"Ecology andNatural Resources(2002/10)". The project pioneeredthe systematic
collection andprocessingof biodiversity information. An Informationand Analytical
Center for BiodiversityConservation was createdandthere is good evidence that it has
establisheddurable nation-wide databases to helpthe Federation continue the
implementation ofthe Strategy andAction Plan andprovides public access to
informationas well as promoting informationpartnershipsfor conservation. The Center
also serves as a Clearing House Mechanismunder the Convention on Biological
Diversity.

Objective2: Mainstream biodiversity conservationand environmentalprotection into
thepolicy makingprocess
3.5     Strengtheningof the national policy and regulatory framework and strategic
planning for biodiversity conservation was baseduponcomprehensive studies of
economic and financial mechanisms.Recommendations from studies inmore than25
regional centers supportedby publications, seminars andtraining were mainstreamed in
federal and regional legislation, regulations and management guidelines. A methodology
to evaluate the economic damage to biodiversity was incorporatedinthe new Tax Code
of the RussianFederation (2002) and a methodto define the economic value o f
biodiversity was integrated into the state Methodology for Cadastre Evaluation of Lands
Designatedfor Nature Protection Purposes (2002) and the Environmental Doctrine of the
RussianFederation (2002).

Objective3: Strengtheningthe institutionalframework of theprotected area system
and subsequently enhancing its effectiveness
3.6     Direct assistance was provided to 82 of Russia's 100nature reserves during
implementation of the project along with 19 of 35 National Parks covering a total area of
some 14 million hectares. Some 15 new Protected Areas covering 2.5 million hectares
were established. The capacity of federal authorities to administer and enhancethe PA
system was assistedthrough an improvedlegal andregulatory framework expanding the
rights of PA services, allowing independentuse of penalties and restructuring reserve
services for a specialized state inspectorate; communications and managementdatabases
and awide range of training programs for PA managers and directors were also
completed. An Expert Council on Protected Areas was established to support the
development of planning and operational guidelines for PASand analytical capabilities
were strengthenedthrough attention to PA services, developing public awarenessand
outreach. An enhancedinspection operation (involving 84 field inspections) enabled
government officials and independentexperts to visit 48 PASto review facilities and
operational programs and innovative governancearrangementswere created to promote
cooperation betweenPASandregional and sub-national authorities. The use o f video and
other acquired equipment helpedfield teams increasethe detection of violations and
reducethe level of corruption.

                                             8


3.7     TenRegional Associations of ProtectedAreas (covering 112federal PAS)were
established or strengthenedto foster cooperation among individualPASand betweenPAS
andregional and sub-national authorities. The Associations completed 26 projects
involvingjoint field inspections and cross-support to controllingpoaching, training of
managementand enforcement staff, public awareness and conservation research.

3.8     Integrated management planswere developed for seven model PASand stipulated
activities completed. Protection services were strengthenedin35 state Nature Reserves
andthree NationalParks. Suchimproved protection covers anarea of 140,000 sq. km.
andreports conclude that there is evidenceof decreasedhabitat disturbance andincreases
inpopulations ofbackgroundandendangeredandrare species. Restorationofnatural
black soil steppe habitats andprotection of natural steppe was initiatedand continues to
this day. Activities onthe ground have strengthenedthe conservation of some 568 rare
and endangeredspecies, includingaurochs andJapanese andDahurianCranes.

3.9     Ecosystemprotection was extendedbeyond PASthrough the adoption of
integrated approachesto biological landscapes, concentrating on selected watersheds as a
unit of management.Ecosystemprotection was also mediatedthrough the development
of networks of areas under protection-Econets-to interconnect and integrate existing
andnewly created PASand thereby increasethe protection of critical habitats and
migration routes. Reports suggest that good on-the-ground results and demonstration
impacts have been achieved inrestoring critically endangerednatural habitats and
wildlife populations. The model regions choseninclude: the Altai Mountains, South West
Russia, Central RussianPlains andthe Volga -Urals region. The challenge will come in
ensuring resourcesdedicated for conservation are sustainedby regional governments

3.10    A significant contribution to sustainability has involvedthe buildingof public
awareness and environmental education by the PAS.Training inpublic awarenesswas
provided to 150professionals from 13 PASand currently 15 PASmanage 22 visitor
centers -visited by more than 80,000 people since 1997. School student education
programs were conducted in 18 PAS,with some 156,990 students participating insummer
camps, lectures and ecological expeditions and excursions.

Objective4: Enable theparticipation of all interestedstakeholders,including
aboriginalpeoples and local communitiesinto biodiversity conservation
3.11    A nationwide annual awareness campaign ("March ofParks") undertakenby 15
PASand coordinated by anNGO highlighted the importance o f PAs andpressing local
conservation issues. From 1996to 2000, participants inthe campaign increasedfrom
100,000 to one million andthe number of localNGOs from 30 to 60; voluntary
inspectionteams inPASincreasedfrom 80 to 600 and over 300 information agencies
provided media coverage. Financial support for the campaign by the public increased
from $100,000 in 1996to $200,000 in2000 and PASwere able to raise an additional
$850,000 from NGOs and local authorities during the same period.

3.12    PA-based environmental education was supportedthrough model school projects
in 18PASandawarenessandeducation activities were strengthenedinthe form ofvisitor
centers, informationpoints (field stations, museums, etc) and trails andpaths. Nearly,
160,000 schoolchildren participated inenvironmental education programs.

                                                9


3.13    Though these activities were critical ingarnering public support inthe wider
sense, there i s evidence o f insufficient stakeholderparticipation in some aspects of
project implementation. For example, a small grants program was made available during
implementation to enable consultations for the Lake Baikal component butthe extent to
which it involved civil society per se is unclear. Equally unclear is the degree to which
"innovative participatory approachesfor environmental policy formulation and decision-
making were tested and introduced at all levels of public authority".

Objective5: Developingan inter-regional demonstrationof inter-sectoral biodiversity
conservationand environmentallysustainable natural resource management
3.14    This objective was aimed at helping mainstream biodiversity conservation inthe
socio-development of the Lake Baikal WatershedRegion, andi s widely regardedas one
of the most successful outcomes ofthe project. Efforts with regional governments and
stakeholder groups resultedinmany interventions infavor of conservation at regional and
local levels. The Federal Law on Lake Baikal (the Declaration) provided a legal and
regulatory framework defining protection responsibilities betweensub-national
authorities andthe federal government, establishing an inter-regional coordinating
authority (The Baikal Council), and regulations for recreational activities and other
development activities. The Public Agreement on the Conservation of the Baikal Lake
ensuredbroadpublic participation and support for legal andregulatory controls. A
participatory Biodiversity Conservation Strategy andAction Plan for the Baikal Region
was adoptedby sub-national authorities and endorsedby the federal government and
methods to implementthe Strategy were developed, tested andreplicated. This ledto
improved regulation and helpedinintegrating biodiversity conservation into decision-
making at all levels, includingcommunal.

3.15    Economic mechanismswere also developed to: buildenvironmentally-sound
technologies inagriculture and forest management, develop methodologies introducing
economic values of biologicalresources indecision-making; establish compensatory
arrangementsto address regional disparitiesindevelopment patterns; and, strengthen
public environmental managementandgovernance. Modelwatershed-based biodiversity
conservation programs were completed ineach of the three sub-national administrative
regions. The Local Initiative (Small Grants) Program of $2.4 millionproved crucial to
generatingthe support o f civil society for biodiversity conservation inthe Lake Baikal
region attracting over 80,000 participants who contributed an additional $11.5 million for
the development and implementation of some 364 local projects, including 11plantations
for medical herbs, establishmentof eight newPASand establishmentof artificial
breeding grounds for rare birdspecies and a sturgeon hatchery. The project also
supported environmental cleanup andrehabilitation of sections of the Lake Baikal Shore
andreforestation ofthe upperreachesof the Khilok River watershed.

3.16    During a visit to UlanUdenear Lake Baikal, the IEGmission saw evidence of
local initiatives being sustained(eg, functioning of a breeding facility for the re-
introduction of rare species of cattle and camels, continued support to the Lake Baikal
Training Institute) and to the Strategy and Action Plan. It was also evident that the
agriculture and forestry departments of government have adoptednew approaches and
are maintaining close links with the Baikal Institute o fNatural Management.

                                                10


Studies on the Project

3.17    A numberof studieshavebeenconductedonthe project, including: Russian
Federation GEF BiodiversityConservation Project: BriefReport on Outcomes and
Prospects(2003), BiodiversityConservation inRussia: Outcome and Prospects (2003);
NationalAction Plan for Biodiversity Conservation inRussia: Priority Activities (2001);
and, Bank evaluations: ICR (March, 2004) and OEDICR (June, 2004). These have been
useful intaking stock and deriving lessons learned for application to future conservation
activities. They havebeencritical insustaining focus on the value of conservation and
committingexternal resources, especially inthe face of increasing marginalization of the
environmental agenda by the federal government. International and national
conservationNGOs continue to support the objectives of the project and refine
interventions inkeeping with local conditions


Efficiency
3.18    This could not berated for financial analysisbecauseofthe nature of
interventions (biodiversity conservation, improving the enabling environment, etc.) and
the difficulty of quantifying economic rates of return. Nonetheless, attainment is
substantial given major leveraging of non-GEF resourcesand explicability of the
project's components.

3.19. Baseduponthe evidence of substantial relevance and efficacy, the project's
outcome is rated as satisfactory. Table 1 shows ratings ofthe project objectives (largely
coincident with the project components).


Riskto Development and Outcomes
3.19.    Sustainability, the resilience to risks of net benefits flows over time, i s rated as
moderate. This is determinedon the basis of a wavering financial commitment to federal
and regional conservation strategiesand support to updatedaction plans by the regions
andto enhancingthe performance ofthe national systemofPAS. Less indoubt is the
adoption of policy instrumentsinfavor of biodiversity conservation andthe continence of
technical and organizational andmanagerial innovations inthe regions and their
replication inareas not covered by the project. The latter prospect i s enhancedby the
continued substantive involvement of international andregional NGOs at national and
local levels and resources available to sustaintheir work (partly through follow up GEF-
financed projects executedby UNDP). The on-going Bank-financed Russia Sustainable
Forestry Pilot Project has also supportedthe mainstreaming of biodiversity conservation
inforest planning andmanagement.With the recentdevolution ofmanagement
responsibilities for forests and for severaltypes o f ProtectedAreas to regional
governmentsthere is enhancedimplementation of biodiversity conservation through
control of budgets and associatedco-financing intheir respective territories and
awareness and commitment of the private sector to biodiversity conservation through the
adoption of corporate environmental performance ratings -now beingmainstreamed
underthe Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) agendainthe forest sector.

                                             11




Table 1:Ratingsof the Attainmentof ProjectObjectives
             Objectives              Relevance      Efficacy     Outcomes

Developmentof federal and            Substantial  Substantial     Substantial
Regional biodiversitystrategies.
Mainstreambiodiversity               Substantial  Substantial     Substantial
conservationand environmental
protection into the policy making
process.
Assess the protectedarea             Substantial  Substantial     Substantial
institutionalframework and
strengthen its effectiveness.
Enablethe participationof all        Substantial  Modest           Modest
interestedstakeholders, including
aboriginal peoples and local
communities into biodiversity
conservation.
Developan inter-regional             Substantial  Substantial    Substantial
demonstrationof inter-sectoral
biodiversityconservation
and environmentallysustainable
natural resource management.


                      Overall       Substantial Substantial      Satisfactory

3.20. The dissolution of the Ministryof Environment in2000 impaired the momentum
for addressing environmental and conservation issues built up inthe late 1990's and
during the IEGmission it was observedthat regional offices of the existing MNRwere
struggling to maintain allocations for conservation activities and implement stipulated
measures. There were also instances of national park boundaries beingthreatened in
favor of development (eg, creation of ski slopes) though, to date, the intervention of
NGOs has helpedcontrol this possibility.

3.21. Nevertheless, there has been sustained, diligent attention to monitoring and
evaluating performance following completion of the project by government agencies and
NGOs. This concerns reporting on: trends inbiodiversity inselectedpriority ecoregions;
implementation of the National Biodiversity Conservation Strategy and Action Plan; the
operational effectiveness of the PA system; implementation of conservation strategies
andaction plansinthe Lake Baikal, NizhneyNovgorad and Volgograd regions; and,
multi-stakeholder and participatory arrangementsfor biodiversity conservation inthe
Lake Baikal region. Suchreporting has been subject to review at national and
international conferences and overall progresshas been described as satisfactory by
national and international NGOs. The IEGmission sustainsthis view having found
continuous involvement of the relevant departments of the MNRandproject region
authorities during implementation despite the difficulties of transition. One indicator of
the sustainedinterest by all parties was the extensive use of informationresourcesand
databases developed under the project and their constant management by MNR. The IEG

                                             12


mission noted the continuing utility of the databases by government institutions and
NGOs during its visits to NizhneyNovgorod and UlanUde.

3.22. There is good evidence that the continuous and deep commitment oftechnical and
administrative staff ofthe MNRand regional authorities, NGOs and academiaduring
project preparation and implementation produced a very positive institutional
development impact which is thus rated substantial. The capacity of federal authorities to
administer and enhance the PA systemhas beensignificantly improved through more
effective operational communication betweenthe MNRand the 130PASunder its
jurisdiction; equally, gains have beenmade with the establishment anduse of
managementdatabases on PAS,enhanced staffing, and support of operational costs
(including infrastructure andequipment) and tackling related legal and economic issues.
A wide range oftraining programs for PA managers, regular all-Russia meetingsof PA
directors and support for many publications helpedupgrade performance and
coordination withinthe PA system. Inparallel, during implementation, innovative
governance arrangementswere createdinthe regions to promote cooperation among PAS
andbetweenPASandthe regional and sub-regional authorities. Ten Regional
Associations of ProtectedAreas (covering 112 federal PAS)were establishedand
developed along with two Regional Directorates for ProtectedAreas inOrlovskaya
Oblast and Taldomsky Rayon ofthe Moscow Oblast under apilot program. Efforts by the
former increasedthe area underprotection by 6,568 hectaresand an additional increaseof
5,000 hectaresi s anticipated. The Directorate of the Taldomsky Rayonofthe Moscow
Oblast helpeddesign newPASand develop and operate the regional program on
sustainable landuse. Stakeholder coordination and support for conservation were
strengthened(also observedinLake Baikal). A most useful contribution to institutional
development (provided during implementation) was support for a grant program of
conservation studies in50 PAS.This involved studies on the dynamics of natural systems,
biodiversity inventories of rare species and development of local databases on
biodiversity and geographic informationsystems for individual PAS.The program i s
widely considered instrumental inhelping PASretain and attract highly qualified research
staff and building capability for comprehensive ecosystem and species management,
includingmonitoring and evaluation.

3.23. Inthe Lake Baikalregion, capacity to assist implementation of the Strategy on
Biodiversity Conservation was enhancedby incorporating biodiversity conservation
issues indecision-making at sub-national, regional and municipal levels andpilot
watershed-basedconservation programs were undertakeninthree sub-national
administration regions to improve natural resource managementand helpintegrate
biodiversity conservation inlocal economic activities and decision-making. This was
very evident during the IEGmission's visit to the Baikal Region where local
communities are taking the lead inapplying sustainable development and conservation
managementpractices.


Monitoringand Evaluation: Design, Implementation and Utilization
3.24. This activity i s rated satisfactory. Key performance monitoring and evaluation
criteriawere stipulated inthe GEF Project Document. However, as it was not a

                                                 13


requirement at the time o f appraisal, output-oriented indicators (linked to implementation
targets andprocurement plans) were not developed and such criteria were only
established following the MTR.Thereafter, outputs were reviewed with the government
(inkeepingwith its obligations) andmonitoring efforts were concentrated uponassessing
progress with: reforms to the legal andpolicy framework; increased funding for the
national conservation system; delivery o f professional and education activities; increased
levels o f public participation by beneficiaries; development and achievement o f
ecosystem management plantargets and objectives; national, regional and local
coordination for protection o f critical ecosystems; effective implementation o f selected
Regional Biodiversity Strategies; development o f an effective regional biodiversity
monitoring and information systemfor the Lake Baikal Region; andthe development and
implementation o f model Watershed Management Plans for the Lake Baikal Region.
Subsequent PSRs and Aides Memoire were used effectively to evaluate the application o f
these output indicators and to specify actions to be taken. This was especially true inthe
face o f lapses ininstitutional and administrative arrangements following re-organization
o f the MNR.

3.25.    For the development objective the matrix o f key performance outcomehmpact
indicators included reduction inthe rate o f decline o f important species, habitats and
communities withinand outside PASthrough intensified and expanded conservation
activities; for project output objective, key performance indicators included reforms to
the legal and policy framework, increasing funding for the national biodiversity
conservation system, professional development and education activities, increased public
participation by beneficiaries, establishment o f a national biodiversity information center,
development and achievement o f ecosystem management plantargets and objectives,
local, national and regional coordination for the protection o f critical ecosystems and
effective implementation o f selected Regional Biodiversity Strategies. Baselines were
also established andtargets set. Such performance indicators appear to have been utilized
for the remainder o f implementation.

3.26. Most o f the targets were attained established inthe matrix. Information is lacking
on the performance indicator for the development objective save to state that the total
                                                                                     "
area coveredby improved protection is 14 million hectares (about 40% o f Russia's
federal PA system), there beingno analysis o f gains for habitats or species, including the
relatively rare. This would have beendifficult to assess accurately duringthe life o f the
project but it does set an indicator on which to judge progress some 10 years or so from
2000. Budget allocations for PASand environmental activities are claimed to have
increased by 12.5%; however, inmany instances, only modest proportions went to PAS.
This latter situation continues as the IEGmission learned duringits visit to Nizhney
Novgorod. The indicator for increased public participation by beneficiaries relies upon
the number o fpublication produced and number o f participants inproject activities. The
final PSR andthe ICR that many people andNGOs were involved inproject activities but
does not signify the degree to which the views o f local communities were incorporated in
the designand implementation o f the project. The exception was inLake Baikal where
the small grants program was introduced to undertake extensive consultations; however,
there i s little mention o f civil society's involvement.

                                               14


Safeguards and Fiduciary Matters
3.27.   The IEGmission finds the project to be incompliance with environmental and
social safeguards throughout preparationand implementation Civil works activities did
not involve earthmoving operations or disturbance o fthe natural environment being
largely confined to the rehabilitation o f existing structures. N o indigenous peoples were
present inthe project area andthere was no resettlement involved inany project
activities.


BankPerformance
3.28    Overall, the Bank's performance i s rated satisfactory for preparation and
implementationthough supervision up to MTRis best described as moderately
satisfactory having been insufficiently pro active incommitting the Borrower to
addressing substantive issues. Nonetheless, the Bank dedicated considerable time and
effort to the project, recognizing that the institutional and legal arrangements were in
transition and that a partnership with counterparts and other stakeholders was critical to
gaining ownership and commitment, including that for the longer term. Inthe face o f
inexperience with the Bank's consultation requirements, a substantive level o f
participation was assured with key governmental and non-governmental stakeholders
throughout processing and implementation o fthe project. Bank biodiversity specialists
provided technical and managerial input throughout and worked closely with
stakeholders at all levels. Their professionalism was evident inremarks made by
Government andNGO staff to the IEGmission inMoscow and elsewhere.

3-29    Bankand GEFpolicies andprocedures were entirely new to the Federationand
necessitated extensive coaching by Bank staff for development and use by counterpart
agencies. Nonetheless, the time and effort requiredwas underestimated and the project
got off to a slow start. Equally, demands o f handlingover 60 major tasks by the Project
Implementation Group and especially the implementing agencies (with numerous sub-
tasks spread over the entire country) were not fully gauged at preparation and generated
problems during implementation. This was exacerbated by several governmental
reorganizations and ledto delays inimplementation. Thus, duringpreparation, the Bank
mighthave opted for a phased, incremental approach to allow institutional and legal
arrangements to better mature and capacity to develop.

3.30    Clearly, the Bank adopted a progressive approach to addressing problems
emergingduringsupervision, including those o f reorganization and changes infunding
flows. On two occasions (December 1997 to September 1998 and Match2000 to
September 2000), "U" ratings inPSRs reflected concern over delays inthe
implementation o f the Baikal inter-regional and watershed management components and
the project was accorded "moderately satisfactory" IP ratings overall. The MTR
(conducted jointly with other GEF implementing agencies -UNDP and UNEP-and
completed inApril 2000) was used to apply lessons learned from the field and to review
crosscutting issues. Following the MTR inearly 2000, to help rectify problems, the Bank
decentralized its environmental services to the Russia Country Office. An Aide Memoire
and a letter to the State Committee o fthe RussianFederationfor Environmental
Protectionprovidedreviewed progress and agreed time bound actions covering needed

                                             15


improvements to performance indicators andproject monitoring, financial management,
procurement and disbursementand component specific actions. Day-to-day supervision
andregular support for financial managementanddisbursementandprocurement was
accordingly decentralizedto the RussiaCountry Office. Inaddition, the Bank maintained
close supervision and provided extensive support to the implementation of the 60 main
tasks and sub-tasks spreadover the entire country. This provided valuable assistance to
the government and appears to have solved the major problemsthough reorganization
brought challenges and the need for interventions by the Bank.


Borrower's Performance
3.3 1   The Borrower's performance is rated moderately satisfactory, particularly inthe
later stages o f implementation when there were major problems relatedto administration.

GovernmentImplementationPerformance

3.32    At the macro level, the Federation andregional governments supportedlegislation
andreforms critical to the project's implementation, Outcomes of analyses of economic
and financial mechanismsof biodiversity conservation were incorporated into federal and
regional legislation, regulations and guidelines. Methodologies to evaluate the economic
damage to biodiversity were incorporated into the Tax Code for the Federation (2002)
and a methodology to define economic value of biodiversity was integrated into the State
Methodology for Cadaster Evaluation of LandsDesignated for Nature Protection
Purposes(2002). Inseveral oblasts legal acts were adoptedto implementthe National
Biodiversity Conservation Strategy andAction Plan.

3.33    Since the signing of the grant agreementfor the project in 1996, the US dollar
value of the SDR denominated grant fell from us$ 20.1 million equivalent to US$ 18.1
million equivalent. However, the balance was compensatedby significantly increased
counterpart program co-financing and allowed all plannedactivities to be completed.

ImplementingAgencies

3.34    Government agenciesprovided considerable support and commitment during
preparation, as did technical specialistsfrom international and localNGOs and academia.
Giventhe unique challenges of preparingthe project during the transition period with the
demanding needs of Bank and GEF policies and procedures, the client neededto establish
capacity and special arrangementsfor implementation to be effective. This was further
complicated by multipleproject activities andthe need to work across many sectoral
boundariesand levels of government. Consequently, there was aprotracted start to
implementation of the project.

3.35    As experience andconfidence was gained, substantivetechnical support was
provided by the State Committee of the RussianFederation on Environmental Protection
(SCEP) and, after 2000, by MNR.The Project Supervisory Boardmet regularly and
offered timely guidance to the Project Implementation Group (PIG) along with support to
the effective implementation of its operational decisions. As IEGwas informedduring
interviews with Federation staff andNGOs, such support was especially critical to

                                              16


sustaining integrated outcomes inthe context of the many sector policies applicable at
national and regional levels.

3.36     A numberof difficulties emergedduring implementation. Inlate August 2002, the
MNRtransferred the PIGfrom the CPPIto MNR-affiliatedimplementing agencies,
firstly to CIP Ozone (September, 2002 to December2002) andthento FCGS Ecologia
(December 2002 to September 2003). Consequently, the PIG'Sability to implementthe
project (already constrainedby the impositionof complex administration procedures
imposed by MNR) sufferedfurther becauseof requiredchanges to the legal titles of some
750 project-administered contracts and interruptions to contractual disbursementsand
blocked funding of PIG-operating costs (from August 2002 to February 2003). In
2002/03, following enactment of the New Budget Code, the client also failed to adjust
andimplementproceduresfor co-financing of taxes and dutiesincurred by the project.
The Ministryof Financerefundedthe taxes and dutiesbut, onlyjust priorto project
completion inmid-2003,was anappropriate co-financing arrangement established

3.37     Despite these deficiencies, the PIGproved resilient inits commitment to the
project its staff remained intact andprovidedeffective management.Though financing to
cover operating costs ceased between August and December 1998 and from August 2002
to February 2003, the PIG maintained essentialimplementation services and project
managementcontrols.

3.38     A particularly successful outcome was the development of an inter-regional
demonstration of inter-sectoral biodiversity conservation and environmentally sustainable
natural resource management inthe Lake Baikal WatershedRegion. The Federal Law on
Lake Baikal (the Declaration) provided a legal and regulatory framework defining
protection responsibilities betweensub-national authorities andthe federal government,
establishing an inter-regional coordinating authority (The Baikal Council), and
regulations for recreational activities and other development activities. A shortcoming
has beenthe lack of an analysis of the degree to which tourist revenuehas support
conservation efforts.

3.39     As noted inparagraphs 3.37 and 3.38, satisfactory indicators were not applied
untilafter MTR.Nevertheless, the capacity for informationmanagementby PASand
betweenPASand MNRwas improved. A Federal InformationSystemfor StateNature
Reserves was established and a database on the biodiversity of PAs accumulates field
data on the status and distributionof the plant and animal species withinPAS.Regional
monitoringcenters have also beenestablishedinnine PAS.It should be noted that WWF
has beenworking with the government to institutea systemof corporate environmental
performance ratings under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) agenda inthe
Russianforest sector.

3.40     Capacity improved at all levels and was instrumental inenhancing technical rigor,
collaboration betweengovernment andNGOs and civil society. However, sustaining such
capacity may prove vulnerable inlight o f subsequent pressures on budget allocations.

                                             17


4. Lessons Learned

4.1     Clearly, though the Biodiversity Conservation Project was prepared during a
period of transition, it proved conducive to acceptanceand mainstreaming environmental
protection and conservation (1993 to1996). The Government, NGOs and academia seized
the exceptional opportunity to develop a strategy strengtheningpolicy and institutional
arrangementsfor biodiversity conservation at the Federal and regional levels inparallel
with strengtheningthe ProtectedAreas system. Their energy anddedication was
instrumental ingaining ownership and inimparting a vision that has provenboth
pragmatic and durable. The dissolution of the Ministry of Environment in2000 and
subsequentcomprehensivedowngrading of actions for environmental protection blunted
wider reform inrural landscapesandbuildinguponinnovation during implementation of
the project (1996 to 2003). Thoughthis situation continues, the resilient spirit ofthe
conservation movement inRussia and evidence of progress by institutions and
individuals at the regional/local levels have done muchto maintain core gains and sustain
the commitment of civil society.

4.2     Inlight ofthe above, the challengeis to apply lessonslearned suchthat they
provide tractable guidance infurther promotingconservation insuch an uncertain
climate. Such lessons concern:

       Secure budgetsfor conservationat the regional level as soon aspossible.
        Conservation Action Plans (and their work programs) are entering a second 5-
        year phase but earmarked resource allocations (human and financial) are being
        reducedor are under threat. The central government needs to ensure that such
        committed funds are allocated appropriately. Some regions were effective in
        influencingexpandingthe support and allocation of funds by regional
        governments, especially inthe face of increasing central control. Their experience
        needs to be documented and shared with other regions. However, as with many
        conservation projects supportedby the Bank/GEF, a commitment by the
        government to allocating resources for the longer term needs to be secured and
        arrangementsfor a stable funding mechanism (and possible co-financing by
        bilaterals andNGOs) stipulated and agreedduring project preparation. While the
        budget for environmentkonservation of the model regions has seen increases,
        allocations for conservation have been reduced.

        Facilitate participation of NGOs and academia to supplementgovernment
       financial and human resources. This applied particularly giving advisory support
        to helping: implement conservation policies and regulations; monitor
        development activities"inand around ProtectedAreas, forested areas andwild
        landscapes and intervene with proportionate protective actions; and demonstrate
        the feasibility andvalue ofbiodiversity conservation and influencingpolicy and
        decision-making. During preparation and start-up of the project, international
       NGOs proved critical inproviding technical expertise indefiningpriorities and
        structuring of components and organizational requirementsand inpartnering
        national and localNGOs with government agencies; suchNGOs proved

                                     18


instrumental during implementation insustaining the commitment of federal and
regional authorities and inprovidingthe "glue" for effective partnerships
betweengovernment agenciesand local communities. This enduresfollowing
project completion.

Use aprogrammatic approachfor complex and challenging conservation
projects. These projects are multi-sectoral and addressmany of the root causes of
environmental degradation ina bidto sustainecological goods and services,
includingbiodiversity; they also require extensive nurturing of government
agencies, sustainedpartnering and collaboration and a longer timeframe.
Consequently, aprogrammatic approachor another phasing instrumentmay be
more appropriate inobtaining tractability inthe short-term and sustainability in
the long-term. This would have beenespecially appropriate given the 60 major
tasks and numerous sub-tasks spread across Russia, involving national, regional
and local governments and staff from NGOs, academia and the general public.

Integrate conservation with regional /local planning commensurate with
projected needs to conservebiodiversity at ecosystem,species and genetic levels.
Impressive progress was made inobtaining ownership of conservation initiatives
at the local level. Some regions inthe Federation were successful inusing these as
building blocks (eg, regional PA associations and "econets") to introduce
conservation activities inforestedareas and other productive landscapes.
However, for futureprojects, priority should be givento better integration of PAS
with the growthof local economies baseduponenhanced ecosystemservices and
to adapting emerging tools (eg, for agricultural landmarketregulation and
management) to support restoration of "econets", especially for application inthe
most heavily degradedagrarian regions.

                                           19                                      Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

RUSSIANFEDERATION            BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATIONPROJECT

Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                        Appraisal           Actual or      Actual as % of
                                         estimate        current estimate appraisal estimate
                                            ~~    ~

Total project costs                        21.2               18.7
Loan amount                                20.1               17.9               89
Cofinancing                                1.1                 0.8                73
Cancellation                                  0                0.3


CumulativeEstimated and Actual Disbursements
                  FY97    FY98     FY99  FYOO       FYOl     FY02     FY03   FY04     FY05
Appraisal         0.2      4.0      9.4  14.5        17.9     19.6    20.0    20.0     20.0
estimate
(US$M)
Actual              0      0.6      2.2  4.5          7.9     13.0    17.0    18.1     17.9
(US$M)
Actual as %         0       15      23    31          44      66        85    90        89
of appraisal
Date of final disbursement: 4/14/2005


ProjectDates
                                                   Original                 Actual
Project concept paper                                                      8/13/1993
Appraisal                                                                  1011511995
Boardapproval                                                              05/30/1996
Effectiveness                                  11/17/1996                  11/27/1996
Mid-term review                                07101/ I998                 02/04/2000
Closing date                                   0613012002                  09/30/2003

Annex A                                           20


StaffInputs(staff weeks)
                                                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No staff weeks                               US$ (`000)
Identification/preparation                133.4                                   409.2
AppraisaVnegotiation                      35.1                                    68.7
Supervision                               166.4                                   601.O
ICR                                        3.0                                     19.8
Total                                    338.8                                    1098.7

MissionData
                              No. of
     Date (month/year)
                   . .        persons    Specializations represented         Implementation Development
                                                                               progress      objective
IdentificationlPreparation
              1011992             2   EnvironmentalSpecialists

              0211993             3   Senior BiodiversitySpecialist (C, TM);
                                      Forestry/BiodiversitySpecialists (C)

              0611993             6   Senior BiodiversitySpecialist (C, TM)
                                      Principal ResourceEconomist
                                      EnvironmentalSpecialists
                                      Forestry/BiodiversitySpecialists (C)

              07-0811993          7   Senior BiodiversitySpecialist(C, TM)
                                      PrincipalResourceEconomist
                                      EnvironmentalSpecialists

              09-1011993          5   Senior BiodiversitySpecialist (C, TM)
              (pre-appraisal)         PrincipalResourceEconomist
                                      BiodiversitySpecialists(C)
                                      EnvironmentalSpecialist

              01I1994             4   Senior BiodiversitySpecialist (C, TM)
                                      Principal ResourceEconomist
                                      PrincipalSociologist
                                      BiodiversitySpecialist(C)

              0611994             1   BiodiversitySpecialist (C)

              0711995 (pre-       2   Senior BiodiversitySpecialist (C, TM)
              appraisal)              Country Counsel

AppraisallNegotiation
              1011995             3   Senior BiodiversitySpecialist (C,
              (appraisal)             TM)
                                      BiodiversitySpecialist(C)
                                      EnvironmentalSpecialist(C)

              1111995             2   Senior BiodiversitySpecialist (C, TM)
                                      BiodiversitySpecialist (C)

              0411996             6   Senior BiodiversitySpecialist (C, TM)
              (negotiations)          EnvironmentalSpecialist*
                                      EnvironmentalSpecialist(C)
                                      BiodiversitySpecialist(C)
                                      Country Counsel
                                      ProcurementSpecialist*

                                           21                                        Annex A



                       No. of
   Date (monthlyear)   persons   Specializationsrepresented           Implementation Development
                                                                        progress      objective
Supervision                 3  Senior BiodiversitySpecialist (C,           S              S
           11/07/1997          TM); EnvironmentalSpecialist (C)
                               Country Counsel

           04/29/1998       2  Senior BiodiversitySpecialist (C, TM)       S              S
                               EnvironmentalSpecialist*

           0911611998       3  Senior BiodiversitySpecialist (C, TM)       S              S
                               Senior Forestry Specialist
                               Watershed ManagementSpecialist (C)

           05/02/1999       4  Senior ForestrySpecialist (TTL)             S              S
                               Senior BiodiversitySpecialist
                               EcosystemManagementSpecialist (C)
                               Project ManagementSpecialist (C)

           08/20/1999       6  Senior ForestrySpecialist (TTL)             S              S
                               ProtectedAreas Specialist
                               Project ManagementSpecialist (C)
                               Watershed ManagementSpecialist (C)
                               BiodiversitySpecialist' (C)
                               Head of the ResidentMission" (portfolio
                               management)
           02/2000          9  Senior Forestry Specialist (TTL)            S              S
                               Lead Natural Resource Economist
                               Senior BiodiversitySpecialist
                               EcosystemManagementSpecialist (C)
                               EnvironmentalSpecialist" (C)
                               Senior ProcurementSpecialist'
                               ProcurementSpecialist"
                               DisbursementSpecialist"
                               Financial ManagementSpecialist"

           0711512000       2  Senior Forestry Specialist (TTL)            S              S
                               EnvironmentalSpecialist' (C)

           10/09/2000       6  Senior ForestrySpecialist (TTL)             S              S
                               Lead Natural Resource Economist
                               Senior ProcurementSpecialist'
                               Senior BiodiversitySpecialist
                               EnvironmentalSpecialist' (C)
                               Watershed ManagementSpecialist (C)

           04/27/2001       3  Senior ForestrySpecialist (TTL)             S
                               BiodiversitySpecialist+(C)
                               ProcurementSpecialist*

           11/1012001       4  Senior Forestry Specialist (TTL)            S
                               Senior BiodiversitySpecialist (C)
                               BiodiversitySpecialist* (C)
                               ProcurementSpecialist*

           0611712002       3  Senior ForestrySpecialist (TTL)             S
                               BiodiversitySpecialist'(C)
                               ProcurementSpecialist'

           0112003          3  Senior ForestrySpecialist (TTL)             S
                               BiodiversitySpecialist* (C)
                               ProcurementSpecialist*

Annex A                                                22



                                  No. of
      Date (monthlyear)          persons    Specializations represented          Implementation Development
                                                                                    progress     objective
               0612003                6   Senior Forestry Specialist (lTL)             S             S
                                          BiodiversitySpecialist* (C)
                                          Financial ManagementSpecialist*
                                          ProcurementSpecialist*
                                          InstitutionalDevelopmentSpecialist* (C)
                                          Watershed ManagementSpecialist(C)

ICR

Notes:Staff marked(") was basedin Moscow.
Staff marked (C) are consultants.



Other ProjectData
Borrower/Executing Agency:

FOLLOW-ON     OPERATIONS
                       Operation                        Credit no.          Amount          Board date
                                                                          (US$ million)
None



