Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18850
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MEXICO
PROGRAM OF ESSENTIAL SOCIAL SERVICES (PROSSE)
(LOAN 3912-ME)
January 22, 1999
Mexico Department
Human and Social Capital Development Group
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = New Peso (N$)
US$1.00   =  9.9 New Pesos (December, 1998)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS & ACRONYMS
CAPFCE          Federal School Construction Committee (Comite Administrativo del Programa
Federal de Construcci6n de Escuelas)
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CGOCE          Infrastructure Division of the SSA (Coordinaci6n General de Obra,
Conservaci6n y Equipamiento)
CONAFE          National Council for Educational Development (Consejo Nacional de Fomento
Educativo)
CONALITEG           National Textbook Commission (Comisi6n Nacional de los Libros de Texto
Gratuitos)
COTEIP         Technical Committee for Budget Integration (ComiteTecnico de Integraci6n
Presupuestal)
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDB        Inter American Development Bank
IMF        International Monetary Fund
IMSS        Mexican Institute of Social Security (Instituto Mexicano de Seguridad Social)
NAFIN         National Financing Company (Nacional Financiera S.N.C)
PESE        Special Employment Program (Programa Especial de Empleo)
PIARE         Integrated Primary Education Project(Programa Integral para Abatir el Rezago
Educativo)
PILEOT         Project of Local Initiatives for Employment and Temporary Jobs (Proyecto de
Iniciativas Locales de Empleoy Ocupaci6n Temporal)
PROBECAT           Labor Retraining Program (Programa de Becas de Capacitaci6n para
Trabajadores)
PROGRESA           Education, Health and Nutrition Program (Programa de Educacion, Salud y
Alimentaci6n)
PROSSE         Program of Essential Social Services (Programa de Servicios Sociales
Esenciales)
SED        System of Performance Evaluation (Sistema de Evaluaci6n del Desempeflo)
SEDESOL          Secretariat of Social Development (Secretaria de Desarrollo Social)
SEP        Public Education Secretariat (Secretaria de Educaci6n Puiblica)
SHCP         Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaria de Hacienday Credito
Putblico)
SIE       Management Operating System (Sistema de Informaci6n Ejecutiva)
SOEs        Statements of Expenditures
SSA        Secretariat of Health (Secretaria de Salud)
STPS        Secretariat of Labor and Social Welfare (Secretaria de Trabajo y Previsi6n
Social)
Vice President           Shavid Javed Burki
Director                 Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager           Xavier Coll.
Staff Member             Anna Sant'Anna



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
PROGRAM OF ESSENTIAL SOCIAL SERVICES
(LOAN 3912-ME)
Table of Contents
PREFACE ...............................................III
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...............................................V
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ......................................1
PROJECT BACKGROUND ...............................................                                                  I
PROGRAM  OBJECTIVES AND  DESCRIPTION ...............................................                                I
Original Objectives ...............................................I
Original Project Design and Organization ....................                        ..........................2
Amendments ...............................................4
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD ...............................................4
Basic Education Services ...............................................5
Basic Health Services .......6.......................................6
Retraining and Employment Generation ...............................................6
Food And Nutrition ...............................................7
Monitoring And Evaluation Of Social Sector Programs ............................................8
Procurement of Goods and Services and Disbursements ............. ..........9.......... ...9
ACHIEVEMENT  OF ORIGINAL  OBJECTIVES ...............................................                                9
MAJOR  FACTORS AFFECTING  THE  PROJECT ..............................................   10
Factors not subject to Government control.                      ..............................................  0
Factors subject to Government control .                       .............................................. 0
Factors subject to implementing agency control ..............................................     10
PROJECT  SUSTAINABILITY ..............................................                                             10
BANK PERFORMANCE ...............................................11
BORROWER  PERFORMANCE .............................................. 11
ASSESSMENT  OF OUTCOME ...............................................11
LESSONS LEARNED ...............................................11
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ..............................................                                           13
Appendixes: A.    Mission's Aide Memoire
B.    Government's Contribution to the ICR
C.   Government's Comments on the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not, otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



I



iii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
PROGRAM OF ESSENTIAL SOCIAL SERVICES
(LOAN 3912-ME)
PREFACE
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) presents an assessment of the
implementation and results of the Program of Essential Social Services (PROSSE) in
Mexico, for which Loan 3912-ME in the amount of US$500 million equivalent was
approved by the Board on June 22,1995. The Legal Agreements were signed on June 23,
1995 and the Loan became effective on July 6, 1995. The Inter American Development
Bank (IDB) co-financed this emergency program in the amount of US$500 million.
PROSSE was intended to protect priority programs during the economic crisis, including
those in education, health, and retraining and employment generation.
The Loan was closed on June 30, 1998 and the final disbursement took place on
July 2, 1998. The loan amounting to US$500 million was fully disbursed and the total
project cost amounted to US$1.9 billion (actual project costs by components and
financiers are present in Tables 7A and 7B). The Loan provided 25.7 percent of total
project costs, as estimated at appraisal. The IDB loan of US$500 million was also fully
disbursed and the project was rated fully satisfactory. The Government contribution of
US$947 million represented 49 percent of total program costs.
The ICR was prepared by Nydia Maraviglia (LCSHD Consultant) after a final
mission that took place from November 9 to 13, 1998 in which she participated, together
with Anna Sant'Anna (Task Manager) and Catalina Toledo (Consultant). This ICR is
based on the findings of the project completion mission, documents in the project files in
Washington Headquarters and the Mexico Department, as well as on several evaluation
studies that were part of other related Bank financed projects in the labor, education and
health sectors. The last mission Aide-Memoire is included as Appendix A. This report
was reviewed by Carmen Hamann (Acting Sector Leader, LCHSD/LCC IC). The
Borrower prepared its own evaluation of project execution; the final reports of each of the
implementing agencies are available in the project files and a summary prepared by
NAFIN is included in Appendix B. The Borrower was requested to comment on the
Bank ICR and the response is included as Appendix C.






v
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
PROGRAM OF ESSENTIAL SOCIAL SERVICES
(LOAN 3912-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The floating of the peso at the end of 1994 resulted on a severe currency crisis in
1995 and a sharp contraction of Mexico's economy. Other Bank documents, including
the 1995 and subsequent Country Assistance Strategies (CAS) provide details on the
crisis. The Program of Essential Social Services (Programa de Servicios Sociales
Esenciales - PROSSE) was a significant part of IBRD and IDB response. It was to be
disbursed in two years (1995-1996) and it was intended to protect essential social
services, while providing an instrument for rapid transfer of foreign exchange to Mexico
to alleviate the fiscal crisis. The Government strategy in the social sectors emphasized
the critical importance of human capital formation in economic development and it
attached a significant role to the government in programs directed to those objectives.
Public policy in the social sectors emphasized targeting the most vulnerable groups and
increasing efficiency by redirecting (in the medium term) resources to the most
successful programs.
Project Objectives and Description
The PROSSE had three objectives: (a) protect essential social services for the
poor through provision of textbooks to all students, teaching materials, maintaining
access to pre-school, primary and lower secondary education, and providing a basic
health care package; (b) strengthen existing social safety net measures, to cushion the
poor from the effects of the economic crisis through retraining, the creation of short term
employment and a nutrition program targeted to vulnerable groups; and (c) lay the
foundation for measuring and implementing efficiency gains in the social sectors over the
medium term through technical assistance and program monitoring. The loan objectives
were in accordance with the strategy proposed in the 1995 IBRD CAS and the IDB
Country Program Paper, both of which focused on the revival of growth, poverty
reduction, and human capital development. The objectives were perhaps too ambitious in
aiming at a significant increase in outreach to the poorest groups, under the prevailing



vi
restrictive economic circumstances. Preventing deterioration of the conditions affecting
lower income groups would have been a more realistic goal.
Original Project Design and Organization
The PROSSE was designed as a time slice operation to finance ongoing high
priority social sector programs within the existing budgetary allocations. The supported
five components were:
a) Basic Education Services (US$593.3 million or 30 percent of total project costs) by
the Education Secretariat (Secretaria de Educaci6n PiT1/ica - SEP) to improve equity
in access and rise quality. This would be obtained by increasing access to pre-school,
primary and lower secondary education for the poor and the rural indigenous children
and by supporting two important elements affecting the quality of education:
adequate physical facilities and access to textbooks. Programs to reach rural areas,
under the National Council for Educational Development (Consejo Nacional de
Fomento Educativo - CONAFE) would be supported by IDB, which would also
finance construction of almost 6,000 school spaces for pre-school, and primary school
classes, almost 4,000 educational spaces for secondary schools and 40 spaces for
indigenous boarding schools through the Federal School Construction Committee
(Comite Administrativo del Programa Federal de Construcci6n de Escuelas -
CAPFCE). IBRD would finance the production of textbooks by the National
Textbook Commission (Comisi6n Nacional de los Libros de Texto Gratuitos -
CONALITEG).
b) Basic Health Services (US$746.5 million or 37 percent of total program costs) was
under the responsibility of Secretariat of Health (Secretaria de Salud -SSA), to
finance immunizations for 20 million children annually against the most common
preventable diseases, control and treatment of endemic and communicable diseases,
screening and early detection of selected chronic diseases, family planning and
reproductive health services, maternal and child health and pre- and post-natal care,
health and nutrition education and social marketing, and civil works, equipment and
maintenance for first and second level health facilities.
c) Retraining and Employment Generation (US$644.2 million or 32 percent of total
program costs) to be executed by the Secretariat of Labor and Social Assistance
(Secretaria de Trabajo y Previsi6n Social - STPS) was intended to retrain 800,000
unemployed or under-employed workers in 1995 and 1996 through the Labor
Retraining Program (Programa de Becas de Capacitaci6n para Trabajadores -
PROBECAT) and, with IDB financing, to facilitate short term employment through
the Special Employment Program (Programa Especial de Empleo - PESE) including
employment in labor intensive activities in construction and maintenance of rural
roads, spot road improvements, cleaning and draining canals, garbage removal,
transportation, reforestation, and conservation programs for soil and water.



vii
d) Food and Nutrition Programs for Vulnerable Groups (US$8.7 million or 0.4
percent of total program costs) would consist of distribution of a food supplement
basket and providing a package of services to poor rural families, particularly to
children under 5 and pregnant and lactating mothers.
e) Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Sector Programs (US$2.1 million or 0.1
percent of total program costs) was intended to strengthen the capacity of the
Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico -
SHCP) to measure, monitor and evaluate the outputs of social sector expenditures,
thus providing the foundation for a system to measure efficiency in social sector
expenditures in the medium term.
Implementation Experience and Results
This loan was processed in about two months responding to urgent financial
requirements of the Government as a result of the 1995 economic crisis. However,
implementation presented difficulties from the beginning. During the first year,
disbursements were slow because some items originally included in the project design
became ineligible for disbursement (e.g., textbook production). Moreover, there were
delays as a result of decentralization of some of the Secretariats. Further depreciation of
the exchange rate in late 1995 also contributed to decrease disbursements. By June 1996,
only 60 percent of the Loan had been disbursed, compared to a forecast of 75 percent.
And although it had been acknowledged since late 1995 that the project needed
restructuring to include new programs and to simplify procurement, taking into account
the diversity of items and the nature of the project, it took a long time for all the
implementing agencies, the National Financing Company (Nacional Financiera SN.C. -
NAFIN, and the Bank to complete this process.
Cumulative disbursements through FY 1996 amounted to US$298.1 million,
compared to an estimated US$400 million. In July 1996, NAFIN called a meeting to
discuss the restructuring of the project and develop a realistic disbursement plan. This
meeting was attended by the Banks and all the project executing agencies. NAFIN had
previously proposed to the Bank to include new programs and change the Loan
disbursement percentages, but these proposals could not be readily translated into a
restructured project acceptable to the Bank. After the July 1996 meeting there were
delays in sending supporting documents, such as procurement plans for the various
agencies, and there were also overdue audit reports. Moreover, the Borrower was under
an obligation to regularize the Special Account by replacing ineligible expenditures
incurred in 1996, with eligible expenditures, and these proceedings were only completed
by February, 1997. In all, it took until June 3, 1997 for an Amendment to the legal
documents of the Loan to be agreed upon and signed. As a result of all the difficulties
and delays, in 1996 (FY97) PROSSE was declared a "problem project" by the Bank; this
rating was lifted after the signing of the Amendment. A one-year extension of the closing
date as well as several changes in the legal documents allowed, from then on, for
smoother procurement processing and faster disbursements. The following paragraphs
present an overview of implementation by components.



viii
The education component was intended to provide support to basic education
services with priority on helping the poor, keep up with the nationwide distribution of
textbooks for basic education, and improve the expansion of educational facilities. This
component absorbed US$650.1 million of total program costs (33.4 percent compared to
30 percent planned at appraisal). With respect to the textbook sub-component financed
by IBRD, six months after Loan effectiveness, the activity was no longer eligible for
disbursements because procurement procedures were unacceptable to the Bank. In spite
of this problem, the loan financed US$73.5 million for textbooks in 1995 through a one
time exception for retroactive financing, accepted at Negotiations. After a lengthy
process of restructuring, the textbook sub-component was replaced by school
construction under CAPFCE during the last year of project implementation (in 1995 and
1997 this activity was financed by IDB). With Bank and other financing, CAPFCE built
7,946 school spaces including classrooms, workshops, annexes, laboratories and
dormitories. The agency surpassed by 60 percent its physical targets for 1997 for distance
education buildings under the "Telesecundaria" program, but under-performed by 73.6
percent the targets for primary school buildings, mainly because in 1996-97 construction
for primary school facilities was decentralized to the states. With the restructuring of the
IBRD Loan, the education sector received US$114.6 million of Loan proceeds or 23
percent of the total (compared to 22 percent estimated at appraisal).
Health was the sector that received the largest support from PROSSE (US$899.3
million or 46.2 percent of total program costs, compared to a planned 37 percent). IBRD
financing amounted to US$238.1 million or 47.6 percent of the Loan amount. The
budgetary support for the health component corresponded to approximately 20 percent of
the SSA total budget for health services during the project implementation period. In
1997, as part of the decentralization of health services to the states, the SSA incorporated
71 performance indicators to evaluate budget execution, moving ahead of the group of
social sector agencies in the use of efficiency measures proposed by the SHCP. The SSA
met its civil works targets and, what is even more important, carried out a substantial
reform of the health construction system during the project period, by transferring to the
states the responsibility for construction and maintenance of health centers and hospitals.
The retraining and employment generation component of PROSSE amounted
to US$382.0 million (19.6 percent of total program costs compared to 32 percent
estimated at appraisal), of which the IBRD Loan contributed US$146 million in 1995 and
1996 or 29 percent of the Loan proceeds (slightly lower than the planned 31 percent).
Bank financing was used to support the STPS fellowship program for the unemployed
(PROBECAT). PROSSE enabled a large expansion of the STPS worker-retraining
activities during the crisis, from a level of 42,000 to 46,000 fellowships per year in 1993-
94, to almost 400,000 in 1995 and 500,000 in 1996. The PROBECAT helped shorten the
employment search period for those who, prior to the training, were at a disadvantage in
comparison with the average unemployed worker, particularly women.
The original design of the nutrition component included: (a) the distribution of
staple foods (flour, beans, salt, sugar and oil); (b) food supplements; (c) nutrition



ix
education to pregnant women; and (d) control of growth and development of children
under 5 years of age, as part of the basic health care program of the SSA. In practice,
several of these activities were not financed by PROSSE because in August 1997 the
Government introduced a new program to fight extreme poverty, the Education, Health
and Nutrition Program (Programa de Educaci6n. Salud y Alimentaci6n - PROGRESA),
with national funds, that included nutrition interventions. Nevertheless, the SSA carried
out nutrition activities under PROSSE specifically aimed at development and testing of a
food supplement targeted to poor children under 5 years of age and pregnant women.
Loan disbursements to support these food supplements amounted to US$4.7 million
(included in the SSA disbursements) or 0.9 percent of the Loan amount, which closely
matches appraisal estimates. IDB did not disburse for the nutrition component.
PROSSE supported the development of a System of Performance Evaluation
under the SHCP to monitor and evaluate federally funded programs in the social sectors.
The objective was to provide a good basis for planning, programming, implementing and
evaluating public expenditures in the social sectors. As planned at appraisal, this
component was solely financed by IBRD and the Government. The monitoring and
evaluation system was developed with the assistance of two internationally experienced
consulting firms. The system was tested in eight social programs. This experience
provided lessons that are now being applied for the expansion of the system to an
additional 30 programs. The system operates on the basis of a series of key indicators
and benchmarks measuring global impact, coverage, quality, technical efficiency and
resource utilization, by program and by state. Data can be consolidated at various levels,
and sensitivity analyses and projections can be produced as part of the system. The work
of the consultant firms resulted in the preparation of user-friendly guides for the creation
and use of indicators and for the conduction of courses; in addition, the firms provided
technical support to the agencies participating in the system.
Assessment of Outcome
The Loan main objective of protecting the budgets of several essential programs
in the social sectors during a period of economic crisis was fulfilled, to the extent that, as
agreed with the Banks, in the 1996 budget the social sectors received 54.5 percent of the
federal programmable budget, representing a 2.5 percent real increase, while the overall
budget received only 1 percent increase in real terms. However, budgetary restrictions
began to ease in 1997 and 1998 and therefore it may be concluded that although the
project helped cover a critical gap, the operational delays in 1995-96 diminished the
relevance of this emergency assistance program. The objective of establishing the basis
for measuring the efficiency of social programs in relation to expenditures was fully
achieved. Less clear was the success or lack thereof, in increasing program outreach to
the very poor. Instead, it is more accurate to say that the project protected the budgets of
essential social sector programs and averted the deterioration of human capital formation,
benefiting in general the lower income groups.



x
Major Factors Affecting the Project
A sense of urgency on the part of the Banks and the Government to respond
quickly to the economic crisis may have led to adoption of a program without due
consideration to operational details, including modalities of procurement and
disbursement particularly with respect to IBRD. In the case of the Bank Loan, the delays
in processing Amendments appears to have been a combination of Government late
responses to consultations and a slow process of development of consensus within the
Bank regarding acceptable changes in eligible programs and disbursement procedures.
Given the nature of this project, mainly intended as budgetary support to existing
programs carried out by social sector agencies, the implementing agencies had little
influence in the changes and choices that needed to be made to expedite disbursements.
The dialogue was mainly between NAFIN and the Banks.
Summary of Findings
The main findings are summarized by specific sectors.  In education, the
expansion of school construction adopted as part of project restructuring benefited
particularly lower secondary education, and to a much lesser extent primary education, as
originally intended, because the funding to CAPFCE was provided during a period when
school construction was being decentralized to the states, and this transfer of
responsibilities applied particularly to primary schools.  As a result, although the
investment was useful toward benefiting marginal and rural areas, it only partly reached
the indigenous groups intended in the original design. In health, all SSA's targets for
preventive and curative programs in 1995 were surpassed, and almost all targets were
exceeded as well in 1996. In addition, there were definite improvements in prevention of
communicable diseases through immunization.  In labor markets, the worker
fellowships program was found in general to be a good tool for facilitating the securing
of a job by the unemployed. But specific factors hindering the achievement of objectives
were identified, and these findings were later applied to improve the program. More
efforts are needed to measure costs of the employment programs in relation to benefits.
The nutrition programs could not be implemented as planned, as explained earlier,
although successful results were achieved with the supplemental formula developed by
the SSA. Finally, the basis for a system of performance evaluation in the SHCP was
firmly established.
Key Lessons Learned
The following lessons may be extracted from this project: (a) loans that have as a
main objective rapid disbursement to provide Governments with budgetary support for
specific programs in a time of economic crisis, should include disbursement items
amenable to procurement that is both acceptable to the Bank and regularly used and
legally accepted by the Government; (b) given the nature of budgetary support operations
during economic emergencies, a sector adjustment operation, consisting of the release of
tranches on the basis of physical targets and fulfillment of critical policy conditions
would have been more efficient; and (c) although it is important to allow enough
flexibility in an emergency operation in response to changed requirements through



xi
restructuring and reallocations, it is also essential to base the initial design on solid
principles that tie closely the program objectives with the operational considerations
regarding, inter alia, procurement and disbursements.



PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.    The floating of the peso at the end of 1994 resulted in a severe currency crisis in 1995
and a sharp contraction of Mexico's economy. Other Bank documents, including the 1995 and
subsequent Country Assistance Strategies (CAS) provide details on the origin of the crisis, the
economic program adopted at that time by the Government and the evolution of the economy
since then. The 1994-95 crisis prompted the Bank Group, in coordination with the International
Monetary Fund (IMF), the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the United States, and
other G-10 countries to respond with a large support program. The Program of Essential Social
Services (Programa de Servicios Sociales Esenciales - PROSSE) was a significant part of the
assistance provided by IBRD and IDB in response to the crisis. It was to be disbursed in two
years (1995-1996) and it was intended to consolidate and complement other projects that were
being financed by both Banks in the social sectors, particularly focusing on labor markets, health
and education to protect essential social services (related Bank projects are listed in Table 2).
Also, the project intended to provide an instrument for rapid transfer of foreign exchange to
alleviate the fiscal crisis.
2.    The Government strategy in the social sectors emphasized the critical importance of
human capital formation in economic development and it gave the Government a significant role
in programs that: have a high public goods element (as for example preventive care of child
infectious diseases); enable economies of scale; and address failures of the market (such as
health services for the uninsured population). During the period of economic crisis, public policy
in the social sectors emphasized targeting the most vulnerable groups, sought efficiency by
redirecting (in the medium term) resources to the most successful programs, and favored
consolidation by eliminating program overlaps.
PROGRAM OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Original Objectives
3.    The PROSSE had three objectives: (a) protect essential social services for the poor
through providing textbooks to all students and, on a targeted basis, teaching materials,
maintaining access to pre-school, primary and lower secondary education in isolated rural areas,
delivering a basic health care package, vaccines, pharmaceuticals and medical supplies and
conducting community health outreach campaigns; (b) strengthen existing social safety net
measures, to cushion the poor from the effects of the economic crisis through retraining, the
creation of short term employment and a nutrition program targeted to vulnerable groups; and (c)



2
lay the foundation for measuring and implementing efficiency gains in the social sectors over the
medium term through technical assistance and program monitoring.
Assessment of Original Project Objectives.
4.    The program objectives were in accordance with the strategy proposed in the 1995
IBRD's CAS and IDB's Country Program Paper of the same year, which focused on the revival
of growth, poverty reduction and human resource development. It was one of six operations
proposed by both Banks in response to the financial crisis, to provide a safety net to the most
vulnerable groups affected by the crisis and protect the gains achieved in social indicators in
recent years. The intention of protecting the most vulnerable groups was correct, as was the
objective of avoiding a downward slide in social indicators.
5.   It was feared that a reduction in real Government expenditures would place the social
sector strategy, as well as the education, health and labor programs and projects, at risk, a lesson
learned during the economic crises in the early 1980's, when many indicators deteriorated and
the recovery process was costly. The objectives were perhaps too ambitious in aiming at an
increase in outreach to the poorest groups; this would have been too difficult to achieve under the
restrictive economic circumstances prevailing at that time. Moreover, the only changes in
program design that emphasized a greater outreach of the poor were the training programs for the
unemployed but the modifications were not very successful. A more realistic goal would have
been preservation of the gains attained in recent years in the social conditions of lower income
groups in general.
Original Project Design and Organization
6.    The PROSSE was designed as a time slice operation to finance ongoing high priority
social sector programs within the existing budgetary allocations.  The five components
supported by the program were:
a) Basic Education Services (US$593.5 million or 30 percent of total program costs) was to be
implemented by the Education Secretariat (Secretaria de Educacion Puiblica - SEP) to
improve equity in access and rise the quality of basic education. This would be obtained by
increasing access to pre-school, primary and lower secondary education for the poor and the
rural indigenous children and by supporting two important elements affecting the quality of
education: adequate physical facilities and access to textbooks. The National Council for
Educational Development (Consejo Nacional de Fomento Educativo - CONAFE), a program
for improving the quality of basic education for the rural poor, would be supported by IDB,
which would also finance construction of school facilities through the Federal School
Construction Committee (Comite Administrativo del Programa Federal de Construcci6n de
Escuelas - CAPFCE). IBRD would finance the production of textbooks through supporting
the National Textbook Commission (CONALITEG).
b) Basic Health Services (US$746.3 million or 37 percent of total program costs) under the
responsibility of the Secretariat of Health (Secretaria de Salud - SSA), would benefit 33
million uninsured people through priority preventive programs, support to basic curative



3
services, and additions to basic health infrastructure. The IBRD Loan was to finance
immunizations for 20 million children annually against the most common preventable
diseases, activities to control and treat endemic and communicable diseases, screening and
early detection of diabetes and other chronic diseases involving 4 million patients annually,
family planning and reproductive health services for about 2.5 million women annually,
maternal and child health and pre- and post-natal care for about 9 million patients annually
and health and nutrition education and social marketing of public health programs. In
addition, the IBRD loan would finance the construction, equipment and maintenance planned
for 1995 and 1996 as part of SSA infrastructure program for first and second level health
facilities and public health laboratories; only construction that could be completed within
those years was eligible for financing. The civil works parts of the health component would
be implemented by the Infrastructure Division of the SSA (Coordinaci6n General de Obra,
Conservaci6n y Equipamiento - CGOCE).
c) Retraining and employment generation (US$644.2 million or 32 percent of total program
costs) was to be executed by the Secretariat of Labor and Social Assistance (STPS) and
consisted of retraining 350,000 unemployed or under-employed workers in 1995 and 450,000
in 1996 through the Labor Retraining Program (Programa de Becas de Capacitaci6n para
Trabajadores - PROBECAT), to be financed by IBRD. The effectiveness of PROBECAT, as
well as of the new modalities that were tried under PROSSE, would be evaluated through
studies carried out under another IBRD project (Loan 3549-ME). With IDB financing, the
project would facilitate short term employment through the Special Employment Program
(Programa Especial de Empleo - PESE) through the Secretariat of Social Development
(SEDESOL) in all states not already covered under the IBRD supported Second
Decentralization and Regional Development Project (Loan 3357-ME). PESE included
construction and maintenance of rural roads, spot road improvements, cleaning and draining
canals, garbage removal, reforestation, and conservation programs for soil and water.
d) Food and Nutrition programs for vulnerable groups (US$8.7 million or 0.4 percent) would
consist of distribution of a food supplement basket and provision of a package of services to
poor rural families (particularly to children under 5 and pregnant and lactating mothers);
these activities would be carried out by the SSA, SEDESOL and the Integrated Family
Development - Desarrollo Integral de la Familia - DIF) as well as by state and municipal
governments. IDB and IBRD would equally share the financing of the nutrition program
with the Government.
e) Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Sector Programs (US$2.1 million or 0.1 percent of
total program costs) was intended to strengthen the capacity of the Secretariat of Finance and
Public Credit (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Pzublico - SHCP) to measure, monitor and
evaluate the outputs of social sector expenditures, thus providing the foundation for a system
to increase efficiency in social sector expenditures in the medium term.  The SHCP was
responsible to carry out this program through the existing Technical Committee for Budget
Integration (Comite Tecnico de Integraci6n Presupuestal - COTEIP) chaired by SHCP and
including as members representatives of the National Financing Company (Nacional
Financiera S.N.C. - NAFIN), several divisions of SHCP and the implementing agencies.
Supervision was to be based on quarterly reviews.
I 



4
Amendments
7.    Three amendments were required to the IBRD Loan and Guarantee agreements. The
first, signed on January 4, 1996 made Loan 3012-ME a single currency Loan. The second,
signed on June 3, 1997, simplified procurement procedures to make them more compatible with
the diversity of purchases financed through the project. This amendment had the effect of
accelerating disbursements. Through a third amendment, on September 19, 1997, Part A of the
project was added to the "civil works" disbursement category, in order to allow for financing
school construction to expand the education system in areas not previously covered. In addition,
on April 16. 1997 the closing date from this l oan was extended by one year, to June 30, 1998, to
enable a full disbursement of the Loan. Moreover, there were several formal reallocations of
Loan funds among categories of disbursement throughout the project period.
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
8.    Initial processing of this loan was expeditious, as an appropriate response to the then
urgent financial requirements. Preparation was completed in about two months and Board
approval, signing and effectiveness took place in less than one month (the project timetable is
shown in Table 3). But implementation was initially very difficult. During the first year, there
were no disbursements of the IBRD Loan because some items originally included in the project
were ineligible for disbursement (e.g., textbook production). Moreover, many activities that
were planned for the program were delayed as a result of decentralization of some of the
Secretariats. Also there was further depreciation of the exchange rate in late 1995. By June,
1996, 60 percent of the IBRD Loan had been disbursed, compared to a forecast of 75 percent
(Cumulative Disbursements are shown in Table 4). The need for project restructuring was
recognized since late 1995. It was necessary to review current components and agree on new
items for disbursement, and to simplify procurement procedures taking into account the diversity
of the items to be procured. However, it took a very long time for all the implementing agencies,
NAFIN and the IBRD to complete this process. To a lesser extent these problems affected also
the IDB Loan for US$500 million, which was fully disbursed in two years according to the
original plan.
9.    In FY1996 disbursements were significantly below appraisal estimates and reached
US$298.1 million compared to a US$400 million forecast. The FY1996 amount included
retroactive financing and the initial deposit of US$100 million in the Special Account. To
address this problem, NAFIN called a meeting in July 1996, attended by the Banks and the
participating agencies, for the purpose of restructuring the project and developing a realistic
disbursement plan. Prior to that meeting, in December 1995, NAFIN sent a letter to the IBRD
proposing the inclusion of new programs, higher percentages of disbursements for various
categories, and simplified procurement procedures and certification of expenditures, in order to
meet the disbursement targets for 1995-96. However, most of these proposals could not be
readily translated into a restructured project acceptable to the Bank.
10.   After the July 1996 meeting, letters were exchanged between the Bank and the
Government with proposals for an amendment to the legal documents. However, there were



5
delays in obtaining supporting documents, including procurement plans for the various agencies
for 1997. Also, overdue audits were pending and the amendment could not be finalized until the
Bank had received these reports. Moreover. the Borrower was under an obligation to regularize
the Special Account by replacing ineligible expenditures incurred in 1996, with eligible
expenditures. All these requirements were only completed in Februaryl997. In all, it took until
June 3, 1997, for the Amendment to be finally agreed upon and signed. As a result of all the
difficulties and delays, PROSSE was declared a "problem project" by the Bank management in
FY96. but this rating was lifted after the mentioned Amendment to the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements was approved. The changes introduced n the legal documents allowed for smoother
procurement processing and faster disbursements during the extended implementation period, up
to June 30, 1998.
11.  In order to describe the performance of the IBRD Loan by sector it is necessary, in many
cases, to refer to the overall performance of the programs supported by the loan (Key Monitoring
Indicators are presented in Table 5). The implementation summaries presented below apply such
a concept.
Basic Education Services
12.   The original component design provides support for basic education services placing
priority in helping the poor, sustain the nationwide distribution of textbooks for basic education
and improve the expansion of educational facilities. Six months after Loan effectiveness (in
January 1996), the production of textbooks became ineligible for disbursements because the
procurement procedures were not acceptable to the Bank (the Government follows national
competitive bidding not allowing foreign bidders to compete). However, the IBRD loan
disbursed US$73.5 million for textbooks in 1995, through a one-time exception, accepted at
Negotiations, for purchases made through national competitive bidding. After a lengthy process
of project restructuring, the Loan added the financing for school construction under CAPFCE
during 1997.
13.   Disbursements for CAPFCE amounted to US$41 million, after the Bank agreed to use a
simplified reimbursement procedure similar to that used by IDB, consisting of accepting Loan
withdrawal applications based on Certificates of Expenditures (SOEs) verified by external
auditors.  In 1997 CAPFCE surpassed its physical targets for building facilities for the
"Telesecundaria" program by 60 percent (lower secondary education), but under-performed by
74 percent the targets for building primary school facilities. In all, CAPFCE built 7,946 school
spaces including classrooms, workshops, annexes, laboratories and dormitories. These activities
benefited particularly the lower secondary education level in marginal and rural communities and
in areas affected by a devastating tropical storm. This investment was useful, but it missed the
originally intended strong focus on indigenous communities.  The under-performance in
construction of elementary schools was the result of the decentralization of school construction
to the states, which took place in 1996-97. The IDB loan financed the basic education program
for the rural poor carried out by CONAFE and, during the 1995 and 1996 the construction of
basic education infrastructure by CAPFCE. IDB financing for education accounted for 34
percent and IBRD's for 18 percent of the total costs of the component, estimated in US$650.1 or
33.4 percent of total PROSSE program costs.



6
Basic Health Services
14.   The health sector received the largest share of the PROSSE program, with an estimated
total of US$899.6 million or 46.2 percent of total PROSSE program costs. IBRD financing for
this component amounted to US$238.1 million or 47.6 percent of the loan amount, compared to
38 percent estimated at appraisal.  The resources applied to the health component were
distributed as follows: Civil works (14.3 percent). pharmaceuticals and medical supplies (35.3
percent), educational materials (4.3 percent); other goods and equipment (8.3 percent),
temporary salaries (17.5 percent), incremental operational expenditures (29.6 percent), and
studies and auditing (0.7 percent). During the project implementation period, the SSA received
a budgetary support of almost 20 percent of Ministry total budget for health services (excluding
salaries for permanent staff). All the health targets for preventive and curative care in 1995 were
surpassed, and almost all targets were exceeded in 1996 as well. In 1997, as part of the
decentralization of services to the states, the health sector incorporated 71 performance
indicators to evaluate budget execution, moving ahead of other social sector agencies in using
efficiency measures proposed by the SHCP.
15.   During the project period, there were definite improvements in prevention of
communicable diseases through immunization. Coverage of immunizations of pre-schoolers
reached 97 percent. Poliomyelitis was eradicated and there were marked reductions in the
incidence of measles, diphtheria and whooping cough. Demand for curative services was lower
than expected, in large part because of the success of preventive programs. Regarding civil
works, established goals were reached and, even more important, the SSA introduced a
substantial reform of the health construction system during the project implementation period
with the transfer of responsibility for construction and maintenance of health centers and
hospitals to the states.
Retraining and Employment Generation
16.   The actual cost of this program is estimated at US$381.7 million or 20 percent of total
program cost, compared to US$644.2 million estimated at appraisal. IBRD disbursed US$146
million in 1995 and 1996 to supplement STPS' PROBECAT fellowship program and IDB
US$129.3 million for the PESE program. IBRD disbursements for this component represent 29
percent of the Loan amount, thus making the employment sector the second largest beneficiary
of Bank financing after the health sector. PROSSE enabled a large expansion of employment
generating activities during the crisis. While in 1992 and 1993 fellowships provided by the
PROBECAT program numbered 42,000 to 46,000 per year, in 1995 and 1996 the number of
fellowships per year increased to almost 400,000 in 1995 and 500,000 in 1996. Together with
the Labor Market and Productivity Enhancement Project (Loan 3542-ME), PROSSE supported
training and retraining of the unemployed and under-employed labor force through four training
models: (a) basic training for productive activities (in a school environment); (b) mixed training
(in schools and enterprises); (c) re-training and re-conversion; and (d) training for self-
employment.



7
17.   The PROBECAT program was evaluated in 1994. In 1995 and 1996, the evaluations
were directed to two variations introduced in the fellowship program, involving training for self-
employment and support for local initiatives (Project of Local Initiatives for employment and
Temporary Jobs - Proyecto de Iniciativas Locales de Empleo y Ocupaci6n Temporal -
PILEOT). In both instances, control groups of unemployed persons were compared with persons
who received PROBECAT fellowships. In general, fellowships were found to be an effective
tool to facilitate the process of obtaining a job. At the same time, specific factors were found to
either hinder or help the achievement of the program objectives, and these findings were
subsequently used to improve the program. For those receiving training in a school environment,
cost recovery was achieved after 9 to 17 months of taking gainful employment. On the other
hand, for those who were 26 to 55 years of age and had recent work experience, the costs of
training were not recovered.  However, considering PROBECAT's equity objectives, the
program is believed to have helped shorten the job search period for those who were at a
disadvantage (particularly women), compared to the average unemployed worker.
18.   Under the new modalities of training that were tested under PROSSE and had the
objective of benefiting the lowest income unemployed workers, the concept of providing basic
school education and literacy classes at the same time as work related training did not produce
satisfactory results. Identification and recruitment of illiterate workers eligible for training was
very difficult and desertion was high because of the precarious economic situation of the trainees
and their low levels of education. Lessons learned with these experiences were used in assisting
the same target population through other programs.
19.   The evaluations of PILEOT conducted in 1995 and 1996 aimed to determine to what
extent the training program facilitated self-employment (based on a sample of 338 program
participants in 5 states) and to assess the impact of the local initiatives program in consolidating
productive projects, increasing income, and facilitating employment of the beneficiaries (based
on a sample of 188 cases in 3 states). Results of the evaluation of self-employment indicated
positive returns to training. Average earning increased by 10.5 percent for the average
beneficiary and by 25 percent for women. Nevertheless, 40 percent of the program participants
spent an average 7 months seeking employment. Among those employed before and after
training, self-employment grew from 27.7 percent to 35.4 percent as a result of the training,
compared to 29 percent who engaged in self-employment after training among all program
participants. The assessment of the impact of local initiatives indicated that earnings improved
only slightly after training (from 1.3 to 1.4 minimum salaries per month), and as many as 21
percent of the sample was not gainfully employed after training at the time of the survey. This
less than satisfactory result is partly due to poor selection of participants at the local level, where
many people enrolled with the sole objective of receiving a subsidy during a period of great
economic hardship. Program adjustments are planned to incorporate these findings.
Food And Nutrition
20.   The original design of the nutrition component included: (a) the distribution of staple
foods (flour, beans, salt, sugar and oil); (b) food supplements; (c) nutrition education to pregnant
women; and (d) control of growth and development of children under 5 years of age, as part of
the basic health care program of the SSA. In practice, several of these activities were not



8
financed by PROSSE because in August 1997 the Government introduced a new program to
fight extreme poverty, the Education, Health and Nutrition Program (Programa de Educaci6n,
Salud y Alimentaci6n - PROGRESA), with national funds, that included nutrition interventions.
Nevertheless, the SSA carried out nutrition activities under PROSSE specifically aimed at the
development and test of a food supplement targeted to poor children under 5 years of age and
pregnant women. Total cost of the component amounted to US$8.7 million of which the IBRD
Loan financed US$4.4 million (included in the SSA disbursements) or 0.9 percent of the Loan
amount, or approximately 50 percent more than estimated at appraisal. IDB did not disburse for
the nutrition component.
Monitoring And Evaluation Of Social Sector Programs
21.   PROSSE supported the development of a System of Performance Evaluation (Sistema de
Evaluacion del Desempeno - SED) under the SHCP to follow up federally funded programs in
the social sectors. This activity was executed by SHCP's Unit of Budget Policy and Monitoring.
The objective was to provide a good basis to plan, program, implement and evaluate public
expenditures in relation to the impact of the programs being financed. Specifically, the system
aims to measure the efficiency improvements in the use of budget resources, and to introduce a
cultural change among public sector staff toward results and client satisfaction. The system was
also intended to identify problems and inefficient practices and to seek improvements in the
decision making processes regarding budget allocations. To achieve these objectives, the system
developed appropriate criteria for measuring results, effectiveness, cost and quality of the
services.
22.   The SHCP engaged the services of two internationally experienced consulting firms to
develop the system (the contents of this study are described in Table 6). In addition, a seminar
was conducted in the Bank in Washington to assist the Government in identifying optimal design
and best practices observed in other countries which already had a system to evaluate spending
priorities. The seminar was attended by Government officials, representatives of the consulting
firms engaged to provide technical support to SHCP, and professionals with experience in
similar systems in other countries.
23.   A computerized management operating system (Sistema de Informaci6n Ejecutiva - SIE)
was developed to generate the following data for the selected social programs: (a) results of the
implementation indicators; (b) level of effectiveness of the expenditure; and (c) achievement
compared to programmed goals. The SIE was tested in eight social programs: PROBECAT
(STPS), Solidaridad (Mexican Institute of Social Security--Instituto Mexicano de Seguridad
Social -- IMSS); School Breakfasts (Integrated Family Development - Desarrollo Integral de la
Familia -- DIF); Effective Management of Diarrhea Cases (SSA); Universal Vaccination (SSA);
CONAFE (SEP); CONALITEG (SEP); and the "Telesecundaria" Program (SEP). The initial
application of the system showed the importance of generating a demand for its use among the
social sector agencies, the need to ensure the quality of the data entered into the system and the
significance of stimulating the development of a new management culture based on results.
24.   The system operates on the basis of a series of key indicators and benchmarks that, when
reaching specific levels, alert program managers to problems or indicate the need for
interventions or corrections. The implementation indicators measure global impact, coverage,



9
quality, technical efficiency, and resource utilization, by programs and by state. The system
enables data consolidation at various levels and includes sensitivity analyses and projections.
The work of the consultant firms resulted in the preparation of user-friendly guides for the
creation and use of indicators and for training in system use. The consultants also provided
technical support to the participating agencies (the studies and guides produced within this
project are listed in Table 6).
Procurement of Goods and Services and Disbursements
25.   At Negotiations the Bank accepted for retroactive financing, purchases for production of
school textbooks and/or purchase of paper through national competitive bidding, a procedure
used by the Government, but usually not accepted by the Bank because it does not allow foreign
bidders.   The Amendment dated   June 3. 1997 enabled procurement of textbook
production/materials through contracts awarded under national shopping, up to US$79 million,
to validate reimbursements for purchases of paper for textbooks that had already been made
retroactively in 1995 under an agreement accepted at Negotiations. Because the Borrower did
not introduce changes in the procurement procedures for textbook materials, these items became
ineligible for reimbursement as of January 1996. As another example of procurement problems,
at Negotiations, the Government and the Bank had agreed on the use of "limited international
bidding" for procuring medicines, medical equipment and micro-nutrients, but this procedure is
not legal in Mexico. Other complications that initially caused delays were the large number of
small contracts that had to go through International Competitive Bidding (ICB), and required
prior Bank review. Eventually, procurement, loan, and project staff agreed that ICB packages
would be reviewed ex-ante and only large contracts over a pre-determined threshold would be
subject to prior review. These procurement problems contributed in large measure to make this a
"problem project" during FY1997. After the Amendment to the legal documents in June 1997,
disbursements accelerated and with the decision to extend the closing date to June 30, 1998, it
was possible to disburse the full amount of the IBRD Loan, albeit in three years and not two
years as estimated at appraisal.
ACHIEVEMENT OF ORIGINAL OBJECTIVES
26.   The Loan main objective of protecting the budgets of several essential social programs
during a period of economic crisis was fulfilled, to the extent that, as agreed with the Banks, in
the 1996 budget the social sectors received 54.5 percent of the federal programmable budget,
representing a 2.5 percent real increase, while the overall budget received only I percent increase
in real terms. The budgetary restrictions began to ease in 1997 and 1998 and therefore the
project covered a critical gap. However, the operational problems and delays experienced by the
project in 1995-96 somewhat decreased the relevance and opportunity of this emergency
operation. A positive, long-term result was the establishment of a basis for measuring the
efficiency of social programs in relation to expenditures. Less clear was the success of lack
thereof, in reaching and improving the situation of the very poor, since the project, by its very
nature as an emergency operation, could not introduce new program designs to target more
effectively the rural poor and isolated regions. Although labor market interventions did try to
channel proportionately more funds to benefit poor communities, through new modalities of



10
fellowships, these attempts were not very successful. It is more accurate to say that the project
protected the budgets of important social sector programs, averted program deterioration, and
benefited, in general, the lower income groups in marginal areas, which is not a small
accomplishment.
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors not subject to Government control
27.   A sense of urgency on the part of the Banks and the Government to respond quickly to
the economic crisis led to the adoption of a financing plan with insufficient analysis of
operational details, including particularly modalities of procurement and disbursement.
Factors subject to Government control
28.   The result of delays in processing amendments to the IBRD Loan documents appears to
have been due to a combination of Government delayed responses to consultations and a slow
process of decision-making within the Bank regarding acceptable changes in eligible programs
and disbursement procedures.
Factors subject to implementing agency control
29.   Given the nature of this project, mainly intended to provide budgetary support for
existing programs within specific social sector agencies, the implementing agencies had little
influence in the changes and choices that needed to be made to expedite disbursements. The
dialogue was mainly between NAFIN and the Banks.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
30.   By preserving continuity of essential programs during a period of financial crisis the
project prevented deterioration of the services and programs, which continued to perform
appropriately through 1998, thus contributing to the development of human capital. With respect
to the system of performance evaluation developed by the SHCP, the project provided the initial
impetus for its development and good continuity is ensured thorough support currently being
provided for its expansion and future use. As a result, it can be expected that budget allocations
and strategic objectives will be much more closely linked in the forthcoming years. Furthermore,
the work of the international consultants resulted in the development of evaluation expertise at
local consulting firms that are currently assisting in the expansion of the system. The team
appointed by SHCP to coordinate consultants and lead the development of the evaluation system
is providing continuity to SED and working towards including about 30 additional programs in
the process of performance evaluation.



11
BANK PERFORMANCE
31.   The Bank acted promptly to a request from the Government of Mexico for assistance. It
worked in coordination with IDB and arrived at an assistance package in record time, but it was
less successful in anticipating the problems that would arise regarding the arrangements for
disbursement of Loan funds to support specific ongoing programs. The obstacles faced as to the
eligibility of items and components were identified early, during the first few months after Loan
effectiveness, but consensus on the correct course of action to remedy the situation was slow to
develop within the Bank. Finally, when amendments were approved, a one-year extension of the
closing date was required to fully disburse the Loan. These problems did not affect the
performance of the IDB loan to the same extent, because IDB adopted simplified disbursement
and procurement procedures from the outset. Details on use of Bank resources in terms of staff
and missions are presented in tables 8 and 9.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
32.   The Borrower's implementing agencies cooperated with all requirements for information
and reporting on the components supported by the Loan. The SHCP conducted appropriately the
recruitment of two international firms for assisting in the preparation of the monitoring and
evaluation system, appointed a team to carry out this component, and took a keen interest in
obtaining information from other countries regarding their experiences in developing similar
systems to evaluate the allocation of budget resources. NAFIN acted appropriately as the
coordinating agency. There were, however, delays in providing audit and other progress reports.
Also, annual project reviews took place in lieu of quarterly reviews, as initially agreed.
Otherwise, legal covenants were fulfilled, with the exception of those relating to activities that
were cancelled (e.g., part of the nutrition program and textbooks).
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
33.   The IBRD loan assisted with the transfer of US$500 million to strengthen the budgets of
the most essential social sector programs during a difficult period of economic crisis, albeit with
some delays. The overall performance of the operation is rated as satisfactory (see Table 1,
Summary of Assessments). It is less clear whether PROSSE protected especially the very poor,
as intended in the original project design. It is more plausible that what the PROSSE protected
was the continuity of ongoing programs that were reaching the lower income groups nationwide
thus ensuring sustained human capital development. Overall, the project fulfilled a worthwhile
function of preventing the deterioration of human capital gains that had been achieved during the
late eighties and early nineties. It also built the foundation for implementing a system for
measuring efficiency gains in social service programs.
LESSONS LEARNED
34.   The following were lessons learned from this project:
a) In loans of the type evaluated in this report, that have as a main objective rapid disbursement
to provide budgetary support to specific Government programs during a relatively short



12
period of time, the items selected for disbursement should be amenable to procurement that is
both acceptable to the Bank and is regularly used by and is legally accepted by the
Government.
b) Given the nature of budget support operations, treating them as investment operations leads
to confusion regarding items to be financed and method of disbursement. A sector loan
consisting of the release of tranches on the basis of physical targets and fulfillment of critical
policy conditions would have been a more efficient instrument in times of economic
emergencies.
c) Although it is important to provide for enough flexibility in this type of operation during
implementation, by introducing modifications, reallocations and amendments in response to
changed requirements, it is also essential to base the initial design on solid principles that
closely tie the strategic objectives with the operational procedures affecting, inter alia,
procurement and disbursements.
FUTURE OPERATIONS
35.   The Mexican government has requested Bank assistance for a new operation to support
essential social sector programs, emphasizing the need to protect such program during the
current period of severe fiscal constraints. Preparation of this operation is scheduled to start
soon.



13
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
PROGRAM OF ESSENTIAL SOCIAL SERVICES
(LOAN 3912-ME)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
Table 5:     Key Monitoring Indicators
Table 6:     Studies included in Project
Table 7A:    Project Costs
Table 7B:    Project Financing
Table 8:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10:    Bank Resources: Missions






15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives         Substantial      Partial       Negligible    Not applicable
Macro policies                                                                      '4
Sector policies                                                      i
Financial objectives                  '4
Institutional development                            '4
Physical objectives                   '4
Poverty reduction                                    '4
Gender issues                                         i
Other social objectives                               i
Environmental objectives                                                             i
Public sector management                              '
Private sector development                                                           i
Other (specify)
B. Project Sustainability              Likely        Unlikely       Uncertain
Sustainability                         A
C. Bank performance                    Highly      Satisfactory     Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                       '
Preparation assistance                                '4
Appraisal                                                            '
Supervision                                          '4
D. Borrower performance                Highly      Satisfactory     Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                                          '4
Implementation                                       '4
Covenant compliance                                   '
Operation                                             '
E. Assessment of outcome               Highly      Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory     Highly
Satisfactory                                 Unsatisfacy
Assessment of Overall Outcome                         '



16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan                                                               Year of
Name/Number                           Purpose                         Approval      Status                  Comments
Basic Health Care I   Improving and extending health care to the uninsured in  1990  Completed  ICR dated June 3, 1997
(Ln.3272-ME)       four of the poorest states and institutional strengthening at
state level toward health services decentralization
Basic Health 11     Support equitable access to a cost-effective package of  1994     Ongoing
(Ln.3943-ME)        quality health services for the uninsured and underserved
in risk areas of II states; support state institutional
development; and assist SSA assume leadership and policy
role
Primary Education I  Assist the Government in improving the equity, quality and  1992  Closed    ICR dated January 20, 1998
(Ln.3407-ME)        efficiency of primary education, focusing on four Mexican
states.
Primary Education 11  To improve primary school students' academic         1994       Ongoing
(Ln.3722-ME)        achievement levels, reduce the high repetition and dropout
rate, contribute to raising the human capital level, and
redress some of the country's social and economic
imbalances as part of the government's social
compensatory program.
Primary Education    To help raise the standard of living of approximately three  1994  Ongoing
(PIARE) (IDB        million Mexican citizens born between the years 1990 and
846/ME)             2005 to families in the lowest income group through
improvements in primary education levels.
Manpower training    Retraining for the unemployed                         1989       Closed    ICR dated November 30, 1993
(Ln. 2876-ME)
Labor Market and    Promoting private sector-led growth, easing costs of labor  1992  Completed   PROSSE partially financed fellowship
Productivity        mobility and labor market adjustment                                         and training components.
Enhancement
(Ln.3542-MEn                                                                                     ICR dated December 28,1998
(Ln.3 542-ME)



17
Technical Education   Objective is to improve the quality of the technical   1994       Ongoing    To provide greater support to project
and Training        education and training in Mexico so that it meets the                           implementation, supervision work has
Modernization       critical needs of the productive sector in a flexible manner.                   been transferred from headquarters to the
(Ln.3805-ME)                                                                                        field.
Decentralization and   The Project seeks to increase access of rural poor to basic  1995  Ongoing    Project expected to close on June 30,
Regional            social and economic infrastructure and income-generating                        1999
Development 11      activities in the following states: Chiapas, Guerrero,
(Ln.3790-ME)        Hidalgo, Michoacan, Oaxaca, Puebla, Veracruz,and
Zacatecas.
Municipal           The program is aimed at providing financing for          1994       Ongoing
Development         community-based small infrastructure projects, as well as
Program (IDB        institutional strengthening to small and medium
837/OC-ME)          municipalities to improve their financial status and to make
public service delivery more efficient.



18
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle             Date planned       Date actual/
latest estimate
1. Preparation                                 02/20/95          02/19/95
2. Appraisal                                   03/01/95           03/12/95
3. Negotiations                                05/17/95           05/04/95
4. Board presentation                          05/25/95           06/22/95
5. Signing                                     06/23/95           06/23/95
6. Effectiveness                               06/30/95           07/06/95
7. Project completion                          06/30/97           06/30/98
8. Loan closing                                06/30/97           06/30/98
Project Timetable
6-Dec-99
24-Jul-98
11-Mar-97
Iates                        -.~- - :                  +Ranned
Actual
28-Oct-95
15-Jun-94
31-Jan-93
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8
Processing Steps



19
Table 4: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(Millions of US$)
IBRD FY                  FY95  FY96    FY97    FY98
Appraisal estimates      100.0    400.0         500.0
Actual Disbursements    ---        298.0        347.8       500.0
Actual as percent of      ---      74.5         69.6         ---
Revised Estimate
Date of last
Disbursement             July 2, 1998
Disbursements
600
500
400                    ~Appraisal
Estinmates
j300
200                                      .Actual
200 '(eDasburserrents!
100
0
FY95      FY96       FY97      FY98
1ank Fiscal Year



20
Table 5: Key Monitoring Indicators
Key Implementation Indicators at         Unit       Original Targets set in   Achieved as    Percent
Project Appraisal                             1995, through 1997      of Dec. 31,    Achieved
(Revised Targets in        1997          over
parenthesis)                       Original./
Revised
_   Targets
A. Basic Education Services -Mex$
million '
.  Urban Kindergarten                   Classroom             1,038                852           -17.9
*  Urban Kindergarten                     Annex                861                 796           -7.5
* CAPEP                                 Classroom              59                   54           -8.5
* CAPEP                                  Annex                 338                 298           -11.8
* Indigenous Kindergarten               Classroom              798                 286           -64.2
* Indigenous Kindergarten                Annex                 481                 381           -20.8
* Rural Kindergarten                    Classroom             1,259                507           -59.7
+ Rural Kindergarten                     Annex                1,155                1,236         -7.0
Sub-total Primary Schools                                     5,989                4,410         -73.6
*  "Telesecundaria"                     Classroom              531                 1,139        +114.5
*  "Telesecundaria"                     Workshop               389                 313           +8.3
*  "Telesecundaria"                       Annex               1,165                1,727         +48.2
Sub-total "Telesecundaria" Schools                            1,985                3,179         +60.2
*  Dormitories                            Annex                40                   64           +60.0
*  Training                             Classroom               37                  28           -24.3
*  Training                             Laboratory              3                   2            -33.3
*  Training                             Workshop               154                  32           -79.2
*  Training                               Annex                569                 231           -59.4
Sub-total Training                                             803                 357           -44.5
Total School Construction                                     8,777                7,946         -9.5
B. Basic Health Services
*  Vaccinations Against Preventable    Vaccination          44,477,882          50,203,605        113
Diseases
*  Coverage with Complete Vaccination    Percent               89.8                89.9           100
Schedule for Infants Under I year
.  Coverage with Complete Vaccination    Percent               96.2                97.1          101
Schedule for Pre-school Children
*  Detection and Control of            Consultation         6,962,268           10,334,202        148
Communicable Diseases
*  Detection and Control of Acute      Consultation         3,397,541            4,547,262        114
Respiratory Infections
*  Monitor Growth of Children Under 5    Consultation       14,425,054          15,704,828        130
*  Monitor Health of Pregnant Women    Consultation         5,535,235            5,669.156        102
and Infants
*  General Mortality                      Rate                 4.7                 4.6
*  Infant Mortality                        Rate                17.0                15.20
'Target set in 1995, to be financed by IDB. In 1997 the IBRD Loan documents were amended to include financing
for CAPFCE.



21
Key Implementation Indicators at         Unit           Original Targets         Actual        Percent
Project Appraisal                                through 1997          Achieved as   Achieved
Revised Target ()       of Dec. 31,      over
1997       Original/
Revised
Targets
* Infant Mortality                         Rate                 17.0                15.3
*  Under 5 Mortality                       Rate                 5.2                  4.9
C. Retraining and Employment
Generation2
*  School Fellowships for Unemployed    Fellowship              NA                 371,642
*  Mixed Training (school/factory)      Fellowship              NA                 128,662
*  PILEOT                               Fellowship              NA                 447,411
Sub-total, Fellowships for Unemployed   Fellowship            800,000              947,715        118.4
*  Training, School Courses               Course                NA                 15,522
*  Mixed Courses (School/Factory)         Course                NA                  5,420
*  PILEOT                                 Course                NA                 28,537
*  Sub-total, Courses for Unemployed      Course               29,000              49,479         172.3
D. Nutrition
Nutrition - Prevalence of Moderate and     Rate                 5.9                 18.1
Severe Malnutrition Under 5 years of age
Nutrition - Mortality Due to Nutritional   Rate                 19.0                16.5
Deficiency Under 5
E. SHCP Monitoring and Evaluation
*  Studies to develop system              Study        Contracting of qualified    A study in four  100.0
firns to assist in the    phases,
development of a     conducted with
monitoring system for    the assistance
social sector investments   of two
toward future efficiency    international
gains             consultant
firms was
undertaken and
successfully
completed
2Only global targets were established in 1995 for fellowships and courses.



22
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
STUDIES UNDER THE MONITORING AND EVALUATION COMPONENT (SHCP)
Study 3              Purpose as defined       Status                 Impact
at Appraisal/
redefined
SHCP Study for Development of a  Develop five types of  Completed      Established a good basis for an
Pilot System for Monitoring and   indicators for eight                 evaluation system for social
Evaluation of Performance and    programs in Health,                   sectors; it is being expanded
Results of Government Programs, Education, Labor                       after completion of this
carried out in four phases, by two    Markets, and                     project, with Government
consultant firms: A.T. Keamey, Inc. Nutrition; the types of            financing, to cover 30
And Booz Allen & Hamilton de     indicators were as                    programs and its full
Mexico S.A. de C.V.              follows: impact,                      implementation has time
Phase   Unertadicoverage,                            horizon of about 10 years
Phase l . Understanding the      cost/effectiveness and
Existing Information Systems and    use of resources,
their Applications.              us ofrsucs
quality, and user or
Phase 2. Definition, design and  beneficiary
validation of indicators.        perceptions.
Phase 3. Establishment of the new
system including equipment
acquisition, installation , and testing
of operations
Phase 4. Final report and design of
methodological guides and technical
execution
Methodological Guide for Creating  In fulfillment of  Completed        As above
Performance Measurement Systems  above objectives
(Booz Allen)
Managers' Manual (Booz Allen)    As above             Completed        As above
User Manual (A. T. Kearney))     As Above             Completed        As above
Methodological Manual for Costing  As above           Completed        As above
Public Policies (Booz Allen)
Design of training Sessions      As above             Completed        As above
3All studies described in this table are in Spanish (translated titles).



23
Table 7A: PROSSE Project Costs (US$ Million)
Appraisal Estimates                 Actual Costs
Item         Local    Foreign    Total    percent   Local   Foreign   Total   percent
Foreign                             Foreign
A. Education       444.1     149.4    593.5    25.1       520.1    130.0   650.1    20.0
B. Health          648.5      98.0     746.5      13.1    785.3    114.0   899.3    12.7
C. Labor Markets   535.6      108.6    644.2      16.9    382.0      0.0    382.0     0.0
D. Nutrition        6.0       2.7       8.7      31.4      7.4       1.3     8.7      14.5
E. Monitoring
and Evaluation      1.5       0.6       2.1      28.6       1.2      0.3      1.5     20.0
F. FIV               -        5.0       5.0      100.0               5.0     5.0      100.0
TOTAL
PROJECT
COST              1,635.7    364.3     2,000     18.2    1,696.0   250.6   1,946.6   12.8
Table 7B: PROSSE Project Financing (US$ Million)
Appraisal Estimates                       Actual Costs
Source      Local Costs    Foreign       Total    Local Costs  Foreign        Total
Costs                                Costs
Federal
Government         1,000          -         1,000.0       946.6                   946.6
IDB               308.8         191.5        500.0        374.7       125.3       500.0
IBRD              327.2         172.8        500.0        374.7       125.3       500.0
TOTAL             1,635.7       364.3       2,000.0      1,696.0      250.6       1946.6
FIV is the inspection fee charged by the IDB on its loans and represents I percent of the Loan amount.



24
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Descri~~4i9n of Cov~nant        Coven,   Present   Original    Reused                       Cm et
a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~Tp                               Status     fulfill      flil
date        date
202 (b)    Open and maintain a Special Account.                  01         C      07/06/1995               No comments.
3.03     Government and Bank undertake quarterly project       09         CP      12/05/1995               For calendar year 1995, the review was
reviews.                                                                                         undertaken in December 1995. For calendar year
1996. the review was carried out in May 1996.
For calendar year 1997, the review was carried
out in July 1997. Therefore, instead of quarterly
reviews, formal reviews were carried out only
once a year. The project was completed in June
30, 1998.
4.01 (a)    Maintain adequate financial records (continuously).  01         C      07/06/1995               No comments.
4.01 (b) i   Submit audit reports of the financial records and of the  01    C      06/30/1996               All audit reports were submitted on or prior to the
Special Account.                                                                                 due date and were unqualified.
4.01 (b) ii  Submit audited records of the Project.               01         D      06/30/1996               T'here were several instances of delays in
submission of Audit Reports.
4.01 (b) iii  Submit certified monthly statements of the Special  01         C      08/06/1995                Certified statements of the Special Account were
Account.                                                                                         submitted by NAFIN every time the Special
Account was replenished from the Loan Account.
Schedule 2,  Carry out physical audits and qualitative assessments to  09     C      12/31/1996               International consultants contracted by SHICP
Part E.2    monitor social sector expenditures.                                                             completed a system to monitor the performance
of social sector expenditures. The system was
successfully tested in 8 social programs and the
final report was received by the Bank on April 20,
1998.



25
DescsriopHo  of Covenant                  Covem Presnt    eriginal          Revisedy    Comment
~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~Type                                 Status     fulfill       ufl
date ~    dt
Guarantee
2.02 (a) (b)  Provide the funds, facilities, services and other  03          C     07/06/1995               Satisfactory.
resources required for the Project, in timely manner.
For fiscal year 1995, release funds to PROSSE
programs in accordance with Attachment I of the
Implementation Letter. For the following years, release
funds in accordance with Guarantee Agreement, Section
3.11 (b).
3.04 (b)    Prepare and agree with the Bank on an implementation  10      NYD    12/31/1997   12/31/1998   Due to extension of the closing date for the
plan following loan closure and implement it thereafter.                                        Project from 06/30/1997 to 06/30/1998, the due
date for compliance with this requirement was
extended from 12/31/1997 to 12/31/1998.
Completed.
3.06     Carry out a cost-effectiveness study of CONALITEG's   10        NC      07/31/1996               The fulfillment date for this covenant was July
textbook production and distribution system, and                                                31, 1996. CONALITEG was excluded from the
present the results and action plan derived from the                                            Project as of January 1, 1996, and for this reason
study to the Bank.                                                                              the study was never carried out.
3.07     All health sector construction will be supervised by  10         C      07/06/1995               Construction of health facilities were not carried
private consultants; NAFIN shall make the                                                       out under the project except for minor
corresponding supervision reports available to the Bank.                                        maintenance works affecting 258 health service
units. These works were satisfactorily
supervised.
3.08     For PROBECAT trainees, selection criteria to be       10         C      07/06/1995               Fulfilled.
applied according to attachment IV of the
Implementation Letter.
3.09     For nutrition, methodology should be according to the  10       NC      07/06/1995               The nutrition component was partly implemented
1992 pilot, implemented in high marginality                                                     by the SSA, covering (a) nutrition education to
municipalities with constant beneficiary monitoring.                                            pregnant women; (b) control of growth and
development of children under 5 years of age; and
(c) food supplements to poor children under 5
years of age and pregnant women. The sub-
component "distribution of staple food" was not
financed under the program.



26
Sction        ,      ::: DescriptionofCovenant                    Coven      Present   Original      Revised                    Comiments
7:-    ; .   .Type                                                          Status     fulfill       fulfill
date         date
3.10     Monitoring and evaluation system to be established as   10          C      06/30/1996                Fulfilled. Final report received by the Bank on
per Attachment II of the Implementation Letter.                                                     April 20, 1998.
3.11 (a)    Submit first quarterly report in 11/01/1995 and        09         CP      11/01/1995                Quarterly reports were provided during 1995. In
subsequent reports in three-month intervals.                                                        subsequent years, these reports were updated at
every supervision mission.
3.11 (b)    Hold regular quarterly review meetings with the Bank,  10         CD      10/06/1995                Quarterly review meetings were replaced by
review meetings during supervision missions.
which have taken place approximately every six
months.
3.11 (b) iii  Reach agreement with the Bank on preliminary budget   II          C      11/15/1995                Agreements on budget allocations for the project
allocations for PROSSE programs for the following                                                   were reached for every project implementation
implementation year.                                                                                year.
3.11 (b) iv   Define budget and action-plan for PROSSE in 1996      10          C      02/15/1996                PROSSE budget and action plan were agreed with
(and subsequent years) satisfactory to the Bank.                                                    the Bank for all years of project implementation.
Covenant types: I = Accounts/audits; 2 = Financial performance/review; 3 = Flow and utilization of Project Funds;
4 = Counterpart funding; 5 = Management aspects of the project.
Present Status: C = Covenant complied with; CD = Complied with after delay, CP = Complied with partially



27
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage of Project Cycle           Weeks              US$(000)
Preparation to Appraisal                 22.7                126.5
Apprais s                                38.2                95.4
Negotiations through Board Approval       4.3                14.2
Supervision                              38.6               133.7
Completion                                5.4                16.9
Total                                    109.2              386.7



28
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating-
Stage of Project Cycle  Mouth/  Number  SW in    Specialized Staff    Implementation   Development   Types of Problems
Year       of      Field   Skills Representeda         Status          Objectives             c/
Persons
Through Appraisal
Identification/                                      B(2), C(2), D(2) J, H,
Preparation              02/95       10        2               E                   n/a              n/a                 n/a
Appraisal Through
Board Approval                                          A, B(2), C(2), E,
Pre-Appraisal/Appraisal   03/95      16        2     F(2),D (3), G, H, 1(2),       n/a              n/a                 n/a
J
Supervision
Supervision 1         07/95        1        2               B                    S                S                  n/a
Supervision 2          12/95       3        0.4          B, D(2),                S                S                  n/a
Supervision 3         04/96        1        2               B                    S                S                  n/a
Supervision 4         07/97        2        2             H, K                   S                S                  n/a
Supervision 5         03/98        3        2            F, H, K                 S                S                  n/a
Completion               1 1//98      3        1            F, H, J                S                 S                  n/a
a' A=Division Chief; B=HR Economist; C=Health Specialist; D=Education Specialist.; E=lnstitutional Development Specialist, F-Operations
Officer; G=Financial Analyst; H=Social Sector Specialist, I=Procurement; J=Operations Assistant; K=Accountant
b/ I=Problem Free; 2=Moderate Problems; 3=Major Problems; S=Satisfactory; U=Unsatisfactory



29
APPENDIXES






31
APPENDIX A
Aide Memoire
PROYECTO DE SERVICIOS SOCIALES ESENCIALES (PROSSE)
PRESTAMO 3912-ME
MISION DE TERMINACION DE PROYECTO
DEL 9 AL 13 DE NOVIEMBRE DE 1998
1. INTRODUCCION
Una misi6n del Banco Mundial, integrada por Anna Sant'Anna (Coordinadora del Proyecto)
Nydia Maraviglia (Consultora) y Catalina Toledo Contadora Publica ( Consultora) realiz6 la
ultima misi6n de supervisi6n del proyecto del 9 al 13 de noviembre de 1998, con el prop6sito de
obtener toda la informaci6n necesaria para la preparaci6n del Implementation Completion Report
(ICR).
Con la valiosa colaboraci6n y coordinaci6n de Nacional Financiera se llevaron a cabo reuniones
con las dependencias implementadoras de las cuales auin se requeriria recabar informaci6n
complementaria. En sus trabajos, la misi6n recibi6 toda la colaboraci6n y el apoyo de los
funcionarios de las agencias ejecutoras, lo cual agradece.
La evaluaci6n final del este proyecto y la preparaci6n del informe del Banco (ICR) tomaran en
cuenta que algunos de los componentes de PROSSE constituyen ampliaciones o complementos
de otros proyectos financiados con prestamos del Banco, tales como el Programa de
Modernizaci6n de los Mercados de Trabajo (Prestamo 3542-ME ) (1993-1997) y algunos de
educaci6n. Los informes de cierre del Gobiemo y los ICRs del Banco correspondientes a dichos
proyectos, asi como los informes de supervision del proyecto de Programa de Apoyo a los
Servicios de Salud para la Poblaci6n Abierta ( PASSPA Prestamo 3272-ME )(1990-1996),
contienen informaci6n detallada sobre implementaci6n y resultados que son relevantes para
evaluar el desempefno de PROSSE, y que por lo tanto, se utilizaran, en la medida que sea
necesario, en la preparaci6n del ICR.
II. LOGROS DEL PROYECTO
Los principales resultados de los trabajos fueron:
Con base en la informaci6n de terminaci6n del Proyecto y a las metas fisicas alcanzadas, la
misi6n considera que el Proyecto logr6 sus objetivos de apoyar al Gobiemo Federal para atenuar
los efectos negativos de la crisis de 1994 y 1995, asegurando la continuidad de los servicios
esenciales de salud, educaci6n y empleo enfocando a la poblaci6n mas vulnerable en todo el
pais. Asimismo intent6 establecer las bases para un mecanismo de monitoreo que permitiera
medir el logro o avance en la provisi6n de servicios en el sector social en Mexico.
II.1 Seguimiento y Evaluaci6n del Gasto Social. El desarrollo de un Sistema de Evaluaci6n
del Desempenlo (SED) a traves de Indicadores, fue ejecutado por la SHCP. El proyecto permiti6



32
cumplir con una primera etapa en el desarrollo del SED. El objetivo de largo plazo consiste en
proporcionar a las diferentes unidades de la Administraci6n Puiblica Federal, una mejor base para
la toma de decisiones en los procesos de planeaci6n, programaci6n, ejecuci6n y evaluaci6n del
gasto, con informaci6n estrategica sobre los resultados sustantivos.
Para el desarrollo del sistema, el Proyecto cont6 con la participaci6n de dos empresas consultoras
internacionales, con experiencias similares a nivel intemacional; del trabajo realizado por ambas
firmas qued6 un importante acervo de conocimientos y experiencias para las siguientes etapas
del Programa.
Como herramienta del SED se cre6 el Sistema de Informaci6n Ejecutiva (SIE), el cual se
incorpor6 en cuatro sectores: educaci6n, empleo, nutrici6n y salud, enfocado en 8 programas
especificos: STPS-Probecat, IMSS-Solidaridad, DIF-Desayunos escolares, SSA- Manejo
efectivo en casos de diarrea, SSA-Vacunaci6n universal, SEP-CONAFE, SEP- CONALITEG y
SEP-Telesecundarias.
Actualmente la SHCP, con la experiencia de los trabajos realizados por los consultores
intemacionales que participaron en el disefio del sistema y con recursos fiscales, esta trabajando
en impulsar el (SIE) en 7 sectores: Salud, Agropecuario, Infraestructura, Energia, Laboral,
Educaci6n y de Servicios, donde participan 33 dependencia y entidades Federales. En la primera
fase el (SIE) contempla una serie de platicas de concientizaci6n al personal de las instancias
participantes sobre la importancia y utilidad del monitoreo en los programas en general, pero
sobre todo en los programas sociales.
I1.2 Secretaria de Salud ( SSA). El presupuesto otorgado por el Gobierno Federal para atender
los servicios de salud a la poblaci6n abierta durante el periodo 1995-1997 fue de $38.6 millones
de pesos de los cuales $30.3 millones de pesos correspondieron al presupuesto ejercido por la
Secretaria de Salud en entidades federativas y unidades centrales, de los cuales $13.8 fueron para
gastos destinados a servicios basicos de Salud y donde los gastos erogados en el PROSSE
ascendieron a $2.7 millones de pesos, representando un 19.5 percent. No obstante este
porcentaje, la contribuci6n del PROSSE fue de gran relevancia para la consecuci6n de las metas
establecidas y la consolidaci6n en el avance para alcanzar los objetivos plasmados en el
Programa de Reforma del Sector Salud 1995-2000
Desembolso de la (SSA).- En los referente al PROSSE se establecieron como elegibles de
desembolso los gastos financiados con recursos federales destinados a la atenci6n de servicios de
salud de primero y segundo nivel. En 1997, al consolidarse la descentralizaci6n de los servicios
de salud, fue necesario acordar con el Banco un esquema simplificado de certificaci6n de gasto,
previa consulta con la Secretaria de Contraloria Desarrollo Administrativo, lo cual se autorizo
por inica vez para efectos de desembolsos de gastos ejercidos por las entidades federativas los
cuales ascendieron a $US 37.2 millones de d6lares.
Al finalizar los dos afios de vigencia del Proyecto, la (SSA) desembols6 US$ 100.4 millones de
d6lares ademas, tenia en tramite US$ 79.8 millones de d6lares adicionales, comparado con los
US$ 218.0 asignados a esa dependencia. En raz6n del menor desembolso tramitado por los
ejecutores, se obtuvo una pr6rroga de un afio en la vigencia del prestamo, autorizandose a la SSA



33
a continuar la gesti6n de desembolso auin cuando su monto rebasara el previsto originalmente
para la dependencia. Asi, la SSA present6 desembolsos por $ US 237.9 millones de dMlares, cifra
superior en 9.1 percent a lo estimado inicialmente.
Evoluci6n de metas.- En el periodo 1995-1997, la SSA llev6 a cabo un profundo proceso de
reforma de la cual formaron parte la descentralizaci6n de los servicios de salud a las 31 entidades
federativas y al Distrito Federal, asi como la instrumentaci6n de un nuevo esquema de
evaluaci6n basado en 71 indicadores de resultados que se instaur6 a partir de 1997.
Se tienen avances en la prevenci6n de enfermedades a traves de la inmunizaci6n, la coberturas de
vacunaci6n durante los uiltimos afios en la mayoria de los biol6gicos han sido superiores al 97
percent para los preescolares y se ha logrado la erradicaci6n de enfermedades como la
poliomielitis, y una reducci6n sensible en la incidencia de sarampi6n, difteria y tosferina. Entre
1995 y 1996 se superaron las expectativas iniciales de inmunizaci6n.
Respecto a las enfermedades cr6nico-degenerativas, en todas las metas se intensificaron las
acciones particularmente en lo referente a la detecci6n y control del cancer cervico-uterino y
mamario, la diabetes mellitus y la hipertensi6n arterial.
11.3 Secretaria de Trabajo y Previsi6n Social (STPS) Se obtuvo informaci6n sobre la parte del
Programa de Becas de Capacitaci6n para el Trabajo (PROBECAT) financiada por el PROSSE. A
traves de este proyecto, PROBECAT otorg6 947,715 becas y adicionalmente permiti6
incrementar la ayuda para transporte de becarios. Este componente cumpli6 con el prop6sito de
ampliar considerablemente el programa de capacitaci6n durante los afnos 1995 y 1996, en
respuesta al alto indice de desempleo resultante de la crisis econ6mica ( el PROSSE no financi6
actividades de capacitaci6n y empleo en 1997). PROSSE facilit6 ademas la flexibilizaci6n del
programa, introduciendo esquemas piloto para atender las necesidades de capacitaci6n de los
desocupados residentes en areas de bajos ingresos y de participantes interesados en establecerse
por cuenta propia. Los resultados de estas inversiones fueron mixtos con aspectos positivos y
otros que necesitan correcciones. Se presentaran en el ICR, en base a los hallazgos de encuestas
y estudios realizados con financiamiento del Prestamo 3542-ME.
11.4 Educaci6n: Tal como se indic6 en el Ayuda-memoria del 18 de mayo de 1998, aunque el
disefio original del proyecto habia contemplado apoyar al Comisi6n Nacional de los Libros de
Texto Gratuitos ( CONALITEG ) en la reproducci6n de libros de texto, ello no fue posible por
cuanto los procedimientos de adquisici6n seguidos por ese programa no estaban de acuerdo con
las Normas del Banco. A fin de poder dar apoyo al sector educaci6n en el periodo de crisis, se
enmend6 el documento de prestamo para incorporar al Comite Administrador del Programa
Federal de Construcci6n de Escuelas (CAPFCE ), a partir de enero de 1997. El PROSSE
desembols6 aproximadamente US$ 41 millones para el programa de construcci6n.
III. ACUERDOS
La misi6n obtuvo la informaci6n necesaria para proceder inmediatamente a la preparaci6n del
ICR. Sin embargo, algunos datos estan todavia pendientes. La misi6n acord6 con el Gobiemo
que las mismas seran brindadas al Banco durante la semana del 16 de noviembre, esos datos son:



34
a) NAFIN; cuadros de resumen sobre el costo real del proyecto al cierre y el dato comparativo
sobre el costo total del programa de construcci6n escolar de CAPFCE;y
b) SSA: indicadores de monitoreo actualizados.
c)SHCP; indicadores del monitoreo actualizados de los programas piloto.
El Banco tendra un borrador del informe ICR a fines de noviembre, para su publicaci6n final
antes del 31 de diciembre de 1998. A principios de diciembre se enviara al Gobiemo dicho
borrador.



35
APPENDIX B
Government's Report
PROGRAMA DE SERVICIOS SOCIALES ESENCIALES -- BIRF (PROSSE-BIRF)
(3912-ME)
INFORME DE TERMINACION DE PROYECTO
Resumen de la vision del Gobierno de Mexico'
Diciembre, 1998
Introducci6n
El Programa de Servicos Sociales Esenciales surgi6 en 1995 como una respuesta del Banco Mundial y del
Banco lnteramericano de Desarrollo a la crisis financiera mexicana que comcnzo en diciembre de 1994. El
principal objetivo que sc perseguia era evitar que los niveles minimos de bienestar social de los sectorcs mas
desprotegidos se vieran aflctados por la grave turbulencia economica que el pais enfrentaba.
A partir de febrero de 1995 so iniciaron las pliticas entre la SHCP, NAFIN y ambos Bancos con cl fin de
determinar aquellos programas gubernamcntalcs quc podrian scrvir de base para construir cl PROSSE. El
monto del Programa se estimaba en 2,000.00 millones de dMlares de los que los bancos aportarian la mitad.
La conjunci6n de esfuerzos de todos las agencias participantes conducieron a que cuatro meoscs despues, el
16 de junio de 1995, los Documentos Legales del prcstamo 3912-ME linanciado por el BIRF, por un
monto de 500.() mdd, lueran suscritos por Nacional Financiera, la SHCP v cl propio Banco, cvidenciando
esta rapidcz en la formalizaci6n de la operaci6n la voluntad del Banco Mundial por apovar a Mcxico a
enfrentar la situaci6n por la que atravesaba. Rangos de tiempo similares se experimentaron para cl
prcstamo otorgado por cl BID.
Eiecuci6n del PROSSE-BIRF
ltna premisa bisica quc fue manojada durante las etapas de Preparaci6n, Evaluaci6n y Ncgodacidn para
lograr el exito del PROSSE fuc que el Banco flexibilizara sus procedimientos operativos en lo que se roforfa
a los aspoctos de licitac-ioncs v desembolsos. Lo anterior en virtud de que la gran mayoria de los gastos quo
xc presentarian para reembolso habrian seguido procedimientos acordes con la legislaci6n nacional en la
materia, por lo que cn algunos no se apegarian a los criterios del BIRF.
En la mavoria de los casos esta premisa lue observada por ambos Bancos, permitiendo que los desembolsos
fluveran con oportunidad. No obstante, en otros, particularmente con el BIRF, se presentaron dilicultadcs
para la aulorizacion de gastos efectuados por algunas agencias ejecutoras, por lo quo tue nocesario
enmeindar los Documentos Legales a travts de un contrato modilicatorio (junio dc 1997). En cllos se
estahlccieron cambios al Anexo de Licitacioiies para permitir que varias adquisiciones, particulaimente las
del CoNALITI EG y SSA, flucran ologibles do desembolso.
M   I'rela.lr.|sh* EncoS 1   ainii     d  . C . i,.ruw, j .1c1 .Mi.t   ik N.wi-il  Iito. ir.X. S.N..



36
Adicionalmtente, debe sciialarse que los costos financieros del PROSSE lueron evaluados a un tipo de
cambia de 5.9 pesos por d6lar (mayo de 1995), por lo que el pr6stamo presentaba, al final del segundo ano
de ejecuci6n, un sobredimeensionamiento importante en virtud de que los gastos que se realizaban eran en
pesos. Para solucionar este problema, Iue necesario incorporar a un nuevo ejecutor clentrn del
PROSSE-BIRFyv adermis prorrogar el prestamo por un afio, a! 30 de juWio de 1998.
A pesar de estos problemans, cuva soluci6n debe vislumnbrarse con mavor scriedad en futuras operaciones, se
puede calificar al PROSSE como un programa que electivaimncte aVud6, durante sus dos primeros anos de
ejecuci6n, at pais con la emergencia economica.
Agencias Eiecutoras
dcho ruc-ron las agencias cejeutoras del Gobierno que participaron en el PROSSE: CONAFE, SEDESOL,
IMISS-Solidaridad, CONALIFEG, CAPFCE, SSA, STPS y la SHCP. De estas, las ultimas cinco estuvieron
culbiertas por el prestamo del Banco Mundial. Cabe mencionar el caso del CAPFCE, el cual se incorpor6 al
PROSSE-BIRF en el ultimo ano de ejecucion ante la necesidad de contar con mayor documcntaci6n
clegil)hc de desembolso.
A -ontinuaci6n sc presenta un resumen de las colaboraciones que a este inl'orme proporcionaron la STPS, la
SSA v la ULnidad de Politica y Control Presupuestal, asi como el prestatario (NAFIN). Las colahoraciones
iltegras .s adjuntan como anexos al presente documento.
Sr-crrARiA DFL TRABAJO Y PAMIISI)ON SOClAL
La estrategia de ajuste derivada de la (TiSis de finales de 1994 afect6 negativamente los niveles de ingreso v
enpleo del pais: el desempleo lleg6 a 1216; los registros administrativos del IMSS indicaban una caida de
snas de 60o en el n6mero de sus afiliados; los periodos de desempleo con duraci6n de nueve semanas o mAs
sc registraban en 42o de los desocupados; y el proceso de devaluaci6n del peso provoc6 quc disminuyera
dc mancra importante el salario real.
Derivado de lo anterior, se pusO en marcha el PROSSE en 1995 con el fin de atenuar los efectos negativos
de la recesion economica. Su objetivo primordial, en materia laboral, era proporcionar capacitaciin y
empleo a 80X0 mil desempleados v sukmpleados en un periodo de dos anos, a trav6s del PROBECA'I' y de
accione.s de colocacion.
En este contexto, se hicieron ajustes a la ejecuci6n del PROBECA'I como parte del prestamo 3542-ME,
Prowetto de Modernizaci6n de los Mercados de lYrabajo (PMMT). Asi, se modific46 la meta total planteada
para el PRoBECA'I' en dicho prtstamo, de 35(0 mil lecas para el periodo 1992-1997, dado que en el marco
del PRoSSE se estahleci6 la nieta de 800 mil becas para 1995 ! 1996. Al linalizar la ejecuci6n del PMMT,
se regi%traron 537,742 hecas otoroadas con el apov(o de su hinaniciamietito, ademas de las 947,715 que se
otorgaron en el PR()SSE (147,715 mis de lo programado). Adicionalrnente, se incrernenti4 la a'uda para
transporte de los becarios y se flexibilizaron los criterios de reclutainiciito de los participantes.
La partitipaci6n del PROBECAT en el PROSSE conlirm6 las experiencias de la S IPS en la ejecuci6n de los
provectos de Capacitaci6n de Mano de Obra 1987-1992 (PCMO) y el PMMT, en el sentido de que
sfc.is... financiera



37
contribuv6 erectivarnente a reducir tanto los desequilibrios entre of erta v demanda lahoral, como los
liempos ! costos de colocadioii de la poblaci6)n buscadora dce trabajo.
Cale scfialar qtuc ei equipo t;cnico del Banco Mundial apoY6 decididamente a! personal de Ia S'I PS en la
delinicion puntual de las cstrategias de instrumentaci6n, scguimiento v evaluaci6n del Programa de Becas.
Durantc las misiones de supervision del equipo tecnico multidisciplinar-io que integr6 cl Banco para lievar a
cabo cl seguirniento, se hizo evidente su compromiso con los objetivos del PROSSE. Ha sido patentie cl
proiesionalismo y la competencia del cquipo designado por el Banco, asi como su sensibilidad para captar y
resp)ondcr a las necesidades del pais.
SfRCEARf.A DIl S.4LUD
La inclusi6n del sector salud en el PROSSE en junio de 1995, tuvo como prop6sito fundamental avanzar en
una estrategia basada en cuatro acciones fundamentales: (1) aumentar la capacidad de respuesta
institucional; (2) clevar la calidad dce atenci6n; (3) ampliar la cobertura de servicios hacia la poblacion
abierta; y (4) fortalecer la participaci6n estatal a traves de la descentralizaci6n de mayores recursos y
restonsabilidades.
Para superar los esquemas tradicionales de asignaci6n de recursos, se defini6 un nuevo mccanismo basado
en las necesidades de los servicios de salud de la poblaci6n, que podria aumnentar gradualmente Ia equidad
en su distribuci6n entre las cntidades federativas, cs decir, un criterio que permitiera otorgar mias revursos
a aquellas entidades con mayores necesidades, y de csta lorina superar sus rezaggos hist6ricos.
Lobs recursos descrnbolsados por el Banco con cargo al pr6stamo 3912-ME representaron cl 19. 5a del gasto
destinado a servicios hasicos de salud y cl 9^o del gasto total de la Secretaria. Conforme a las IUncioI1es que
son responsabilidad de la Secretaria dc Salud, el gasto con cargo al PROSSE se ubic6 bisicarnentc en las
siguientes categortas
I      obra civil (1 3.9o) destinados a fortalecer la infraestructura hospitalaria de primero y
segundo nivel de atenci6n en cl pais.
2B     Productos Farmaceuticos y Suministros Medicos (34.4%), canalizados principalmente a los
estados para atender las necesidades minimas de los productos previstos en el cuadro basico
de medicamentos
2C     Otros bienes v equipos (8. l'o) asignados para la cornpra del equipo e instrumental me'dico
requerido basicamentc para casas de salud y centros de salud ubicadas en diversas zonas de
la Repiiblica.
En el periodo 1995-1997, la Secretaria de Salud lievo a cabo un prolfundo proceso de reJorma de la cual
formaron parte la descentralizadi6n cle los servicios de salud a las 31 cntidades J'cderativas v al Distrito
Federal, asi como la instiunicntaci6n de un nuevo esquema de evaluaci6Sn basaclo en 71 indicadores de
rcsultado, que se instauro a partir de 1997. Sobresale la etri-ada en vigor de las relormas a la Lev Gen1eral
de Salud que en1tre otros avances corno el impulso al mercado cle medicanelitos genCr1icos, fornentan la
desm,gulacii'4 de la actividad econ6inica.
e?  he-S. Fnmr:ea3:SM3



38
SCHP / UNIDAD DE PoLiTIcA Y CONTROLI PRESUPULSTAL
E%ta Unidadl estuvo encargada de ejecutar el Sistema Piloto de Monitorco y Evaluaci6n del Descinpenio ! Ios
Resultadox de Programas Gubernamentales, coinponenite tocnico del PROSSE, cuvos objetivos principales
cran:
*      Permitir al Gobierno Federal medir, tanto el impacto dc los prograrnas dc salud, capacitaciin y
empico en la satisfacci6n de las demandas de la poblaci6n objetivo, como cl aproclchamiint()
adecuado dc los recursos fiscales utilizados.
*g     Incrementar la eliciencia de los recursos presupuestales.
*       ;Generar ull cambio cultural del servidor publico hacia la obtenc ion de resultados v a la satisfacci6n
de beneficiarios.
*      Identilicar posibles errores en la cjecucion de dichos programas o identilicar practicas que pueden
swr mejoradas.
*      Perfeccionar los servicios que cl Gobierno ofrece en cuanto a costo, eliciencia, cl;ctividad v
calidad.
*      Mejorar cl proceso de toma de decisiones con respecto a las asignaciones presupucstales que
impactan a la comunidad mediante la incorporacion de criterios de rcsultados, clicicncia, costos v
calidad en los servicios, en la evaluacion de programas gubernamentalNs.
*      Incorporar nuevas herramientas tecnol6gicas a la administraci6n de programas gubcrmamentales
mediante el desarrollo de sistemas de informaci6n ejecutivos.
Del total de recursos asignados a esta Secretaria para apoyar el PROSSE, 14.9 millones dc pes)s se
aplicaron para ciubrir los servicios de consultoria de la% lirmas consultoras a quiencs se encar 6 del
dcsarrollo del sistema: Booz Allen & Hamilton, para los trabajos del Sector Salud (incluvendo nutrici6n) y
para el Sector 'I'rabajo (capacitaci6n y empleo), y A.T. Kearney para cl Sector Educaci6n.
Los resultados mis relevantes que se han obtenido son los siguientes:
-      Generaci6n de una guia metodol6gica para la elaboraci6n de sistemas de medici')n del desempciio.
-      Metodologia para el costeo de politicas p6blicas.
-      FHerramienta del Sistcmna de Evaluaci6ni del Desempelho v sus componentos, presentado cn diversas
unidades internas v externas de la SIH-CP.
-      Sistema de Inlormaci6n Ejecutivo -- Grupo piloto dc las siguientes inistituciot1cs:
*  I PS'i --PROBECAT
* DIF -- Desavunos cscolarcs
* SSA -- Vacunacion universal
* SEP -- CONALIIEG
* IMSS-So)LIDARIDAD
* SSA -- Manco efectivo en casos de diarrca
* SEP-- CONAFE
* SEP -- Ileseufundaria
.xl,,30,zmg FSr-  tDE



39
Este sistema se caracteriza por operar a traves de una senalizaci6n por semaloros en la qtiu se observa el
desempeno global (impacto, cobertura, calidad, cliciencia lecnica, alineacion de recursos) de tin
determinado programa gubernamental en los diferentes estados del pais. Al medir los resultados y darles
seguirniento) con el monitorco, proporciona retroalimentacion permanente a la planeaci6n, a la toma de
decisiones, programaci6n v ejecuci6n de los programas v actividades institucionales.
NAFIN / PREfT4T.mRIo
En relacian con la ejecuci6n del PROSSE, debe mencionarse que a raiz de la desincorporaciim del
C()NALI1 EG  como ejecutor a finales de 1996, fue necesario vislumbrar nuevas posibilidades para
continuar con la ejecuci6n del mismo v cumplir con las metas de desembolso. Por lo anterior, fue necesario
prorrogar la 1lecha limite de desembolso al 30 de junio de 1998 v tomar algunas acciones einergentes como
l'uc negoaar con el Banco la indusi6n del CAPFCE en la ejecuci6n del PROSSE-BIRF, y cuvos gastos
signilicaron un dcsembolsa extra del orden de $41 .(54 millones de d6lares.
Desde el punto de vista del proceso de los desembolsos del prestarno, el aspecto mas sobresaliente v
novedoso fue la aceptaci6n del Banco de un procedimiento mediante el cual se logrA la presentacion y
desembolso del saldo del prkstamo en tiempos reeord. En este sentido las cifras son representativas: la
SecTetaria dc Salud desembols6 $1 37.629 mdd, mientras que el CAPFCE, $41 .054 mdd durante 1997.
Vale la pena destacar que tan s6lo en el caso del CAPFCE, el desembolso se genert  mediante la
presentaciUn al Banco de dos solicitudes de desembolso totalmenite simplificadas. Dicho procedimiento,
que en su momento tfue discutido ' acordado con los organismos ejecutores, el Olicial del Proyccto del
Banco Mundial (Anna Sant'Anna), v personial del area de desemlbolsos de Nacional Financiera, deriv') en la
TreCaCin de un "mecanismo ide gesti6n simiplificado" que c nsisti() enl que sc respansabilizara a la agencia
eiecutora de documentar los gastos a traves de "certificaciones de gastos", sustenitaido de esta mancra cl
debido control de la correcta aplicaci(o)n de los recursos.
El proceso se puede describir de la siguiente lorma: (a) el ejecutor clabora, por Estado de la Rep6blica
Mexicata participante en el Programa, un estado h'inailciero peri6dico, desglosado por concepto de gasto;
(b) el ejecutor (olicinas centrales) determitia los gastos que son elegibles de financiamiento, los agrupa por
Categoria de Inversion v elabora las solicitudes de desembolso simplilicadas, consolidando los gastos por
Estado v por periodo de gasto, y posteriormente, coino un evenito complementario, NAFIN realizo visitas
de campo para verilicar, con base eii una muestra, los gastos resumidos en los certificados de gastos
(SO()E's).
nacional financiera






41
APPENDIX C
Government's Comments on the ICR
BBJ/]FM-  035   .19
UNIDAD DE FINANCIACMEUJWTlLATERALES
W   ;;;~~~  @  lX  ~       19 deenemode 1999
SRA. CARMEN HAMANN    P,T 
GCernte del Sector Social          1Ci     PTIOI
Departamento para Mfxico; Am6rica Lri Asribe
Banco Mundial, Insurgentes Sur #1605, piso 24
03900, M6xico, D.F.
AThI: SRA. ANNA SAN_ANNA
Me refieo al pr6stamo 3912-ME contratado con ese Organismo Multilateral, destinado a
financiar parcialmente el Programa de SeUvicios Sociales Esencia[es, y especfficarnente al ICR
del mismo.
Sobre el particular, en respuesta a su atento comunicado del pasado 13 de enero, le comento que
en t6rminos generales encontramos satisfactorio el contenido del borrador que usted nos enviara,
por io que considerarnos que puedc procederse a su publicaci6n. S61o me rcsta recordarle que la
colaboraci6n dcl Gobiemo de M6xico cs parte integr del ICR, por lo que debe ser incorporado
en su totalidad como Anexo B del mnismo.
Sin mhs por el momento, aprovecho la ocasi6n p  arl   cordial saludo.
ATENTA   N E
LIC. JUAN MANURO SOSA
c.c.pa  Lic. Timoico Harris Howard.- Subdirector dc Organismos Iniernacionales.- NAFIN
rnlfA



MAP SECTION



IBRD 2354
,54;oreAo~ ~ ~~O' ' /14           --                                                               M    E  X  I C  O
i dIFCIPNIA w olf s     2 4                     \l  .s
w08                                                                                                                                                30 S   <  J  ff  X V   X  Xc3
\ ;;L : 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H  u A     
>    WtS:   t<m                            s                          +sM_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e>*o_rncpl-iie-r on
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0 R Ae
CAlifORNIA  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Divided htigh-wym
- Railroads
0                   0                     0 00 ;; ,mChipltuncinoo %> < i,p.,'    P   atcHrs
L 0 000   ,>i/0  t                      /   MeTEAA,
lij b- ThD Ub i,rth, Aj,,,,wF,,,  N-                                                         T.. o)    4
knF4wd4hm * i         D@-g.            /                 a' i                                 tepoclte    -     S
-v20ots nP., c4 t99'
MILSCET5 0  l 200  20  4 00 0  GSooA A 
k,                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HONDURAS
FEBRUARY 1992



