Page  1
                                                      January 4, 1996
Mr. Martin Werner
Director General de Credito Publico
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Insurgentes Sur 826, Piso 9
03100 Mexico, D. F.
            Re: Loan No. 3912-ME (Essential Social Services
                Program) Amendment to the Guarantee Agreement
Dear Sir:
        Please refer to the Guarantee Agreement between
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the
Bank) and the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) dated June
23, 1995 (the Guarantee Agreement).  We are pleased to inform
you that, as a result of our recent discussions on the subject,
the Bank agrees to amend the Guarantee Agreement as follows:
Preamble
        WHEREAS clause (B) of the Preamble on page 1 of the
Guarantee Agreement is hereby amended by replacing the words
"various currencies equivalent" with the words "an amount
equal".
Section 1.01
        This Section is hereby amended by replacing the words
"The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985," with the words
"The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May
30, 1995,".
        Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing
amendment by signing and dating this letter in the spaces
provided below.  This amendment letter may be executed in two
counterparts, each of which shall be an original.  Upon your
confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.
The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective
upon receipt by the Bank of said fully executed original.
                      Very truly yours,
            INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                       AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Martin J. Staab
                       Acting Director
                    Country Department II
           Latin America and the Caribbean Region
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By:    Martin Werner
       Authorized Representative
Date:  Enero 31, 1996
Page  2
