Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. T7644-IQ
THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH OF THE REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
PROPOSED TRUST FUND GRANT
OF US$25.0 MILLION
FOR AN
EMERGENCY HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
November 30, 2004
Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed Without World Bank authorization.  l



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 2004)
Currency Unit = US$
US$ 1 = Iraqi Dinar 1,465
FISCAL YEAR
January to December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPA           Coalition Provisional Authority
CQ            Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications
ECOP          Environmental Codes of Practice
EHRP          Emergency Health Rehabilitation Project
ESSAF         Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework
FMR           Financial Monitoring Report
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
IRFFI         International Reconstruction Fund Facility for Iraq
ITF           World Bank Iraq Trust Fund
MA            Monitoring Agent
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOH           Ministry of Health
MOPDC         Ministry of Planning and Development Cooperation
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
OFPP          Oil for Food Programme
PIM           Project Implementation Manual
PFS           Project Financial Statements
PMO           United States Program Management Office
PMT           Project Management Team
PP            Procurement Plan
QCBS          Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
SBD           Standard Bidding Document
SOE           Statement of Expenses
TA            Technical Assistance
TOR           Terms of Reference
UNDB          United Nations Developmental Business
UNDG          United Nations Development Group
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
WHO           World Health Organization
Vice President                            Christiaan Poortman
Country Director                          Joseph P. Saba
Sector Director                           Michal Rutkowski
Sector Manager                            Akiko Maeda
Task Team Leader                          Jean-Jacques Frere



EMERGENCY HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..............................I
A. BACKGROUND AND STRATEGY                                      .2
B. BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY                                     .5
C. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                   .7
D. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                           .        9
E. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION .21
F.   RISKS ........................................................ .                     22
Annex 1: Results Framework and Monitoring .26
Annex 2: Summary Cost Tables .27
Annex 3: Project Management .30
Annex 4: Procurement Arrangements and Procurement Plan .33
Annex 5: Financial Management and Disbursement .39
Annex 6: Results-based Supervision Plan .45
Annex 7: Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework .46
Annex 7a: Codes of Practice for Prevention and Mitigation of Environmental Impacts .48
Annex 7b: Safeguards Procedures for Inclusion in the Technical Specifications of Contracts . 53
Annex 8a. Analysis of Hospitals Selectedfor Rehabilitation.                             57
Annex 8b: List of Medical and Laboratory Equipment .61
Annex 8c: List of Emergency Medical Drugs .62
Annex 9: Project Implementation Schedule .63
Annex 10: International Donor Health Activities in the Republic of Iraq .68
Annex 11. Timetable of Key Project Processing Events .73
Annex 12: Names of Staff/Consultants Who Worked on the Project .74



i
I



MINISTRY OF HEALTH OF THE REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
EMERGENCY HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Grant Recipient:         Ministry of Health, Republic of Iraq
Beneficiary:             Ministry of Health
Implementing Agency:     Ministry of Health
Loan/Credit/Grant:       Grant
Amount & Terms:          US$25.0 million on grant terms
Objectives &             The objective of the Project is to improve access to
Description:             quality emergency services in selected health facilities to
serve the urgent needs of the Iraqi population. This
objective would be achieved through: (i) rehabilitation of
priority emergency services, including emergency
obstetric care in 12 selected hospitals, and the urgent
provision of basic medical and laboratory equipment to
the selected rehabilitated hospitals; (ii) the provision of a
3 to 6 month supply of up to 37 essential emergency drugs
to be used at emergency facilities rehabilitated through
this project; (iii) continued support to strengthening of
planning and management capacity within the central and
Governorate health administrations; and (iv) support to
project management.
Technical Annex:         This Project has been prepared in accordance with
Emergency Recovery Assistance procedures (Operational
Policy 8.50). There is no Project Appraisal Document for
this Project.
Disbursement:            The grant is expected to be fully disbursed by
December 31, 2006.
Closing Date:            December 31, 2006
Project ID Number:       P091305
Map No.                  IBRD 32954



I



2
MINISTRY OF HEALTH OF THE REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
EMERGENCY HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
A.    BACKGROUND AND STRATEGY
Country Background
1.    Abundant natural and human resources enabled Iraq to attain the status of a middle-
income country in the 1970s. The country developed good infrastructure and well-performing
healthcare and education systems, widely regarded as the best in the Middle East. Income per
capita rose to over US$3,600 in the early 1980s. Since that time, successive wars and a
repressive, state-dominated economic system have stifled growth and development and
debilitated basic infrastructure and social services. International trade sanctions imposed in 1991
took a toll on the economy. Despite the country's rich resource endowment, Iraq's human
development indicators are now among the lowest in the region and income per capita dropped
to about US$770 by 2001, with continued decline thereafter. Although there is a paucity of
reliable economic data, 2003 GDP is estimated at about US$12.1 billion, or about US$446 per
person, assuming a population of about 27.1 million.
Current Challenges and International Response
2.    Following the recent war, Iraq faces enormous challenges and the situation is still
evolving. In addition to a complicated political transition, Iraq needs to rebuild social cohesion
and implement an economic transition from a centrally planned economy to a diversified market
economy. It will be particularly important to mitigate the temporary adverse effect of reforms on
the poor and vulnerable.
3.    A Needs Assessment covering fourteen sectors, prepared jointly in 2003 by the World
Bank and United Nations Development Group (UNDG), and with the participation of the
International Monetary Fund, estimated that Iraq requires about US$36.0 billion for
reconstruction over four years, and the then Coalition Provisional Authority (CPA) estimated
separately that Iraq requires about US$19.0 billion over four years for security and oil
production, areas otherwise not covered by the Needs Assessment.
4.    At an International Donors' Conference for Iraq in Madrid on October 23-24, 2003,
donors expressed support for the Needs Assessment and pledged about US$32.0 billion for the
four-year period covered by the Needs Assessment. Donors also asked the World Bank and
UNDG to set up an International Reconstruction Fund Facility for Iraq (IRFFI) to ensure swift,
flexible, and coordinated donor financing for priority investments consistent with the Needs
Assessment. IRFFI consists of two trust funds-a World Bank Iraq Trust Fund and a UNDG
Trust Fund-each with its own internal governance procedures and a management structure that
ensures close coordination. Information on current and planned international donor health
activities in Iraq can be found in Annex 10.



3
Health Sector
5.    Once considered one of the best in the region, the Iraqi health system has suffered the
consequences of three major wars, inappropriate policies, poor management and the absence of
adequate resource allocation. During the 1980s, Iraq's health sector consisted of a highly
advanced curative system, with little, if any, public health approaches in place. During the
1990s, funds available for health were reduced by 90% and health outcomes became among the
poorest in the region and well below levels found in countries of comparable income. According
to the 2003 UNICEF/WHO Health and Nutrition Watching Brief, Iraq has the region's second-
highest infant mortality (83/1,000 live births in 2002) and under-five mortality rates (117/1,000
in 2001), a stark reversal from the improvements in the late 1970s and early 1980s. During the
1990s, maternal mortality grew close to three-fold, with an estimated 30% of women giving birth
without a qualified health worker in attendance.
6.    Prior to 1990, Iraq was entering its epidemiological transition from infectious to non-
communicable diseases, but has since been suffering from a double burden in its disease profile.
Iraq is experiencing increases in non-communicable disease morbidity and mortality, while at the
same time facing increases in the incidence of communicable diseases. The Ministry of Health
(MOH) has identified the following as contributing factors to the deteriorating health status: poor
investment in the health sector, poorly maintained health infrastructure, inappropriate
management of the health sector, poor sanitation and water supply, unsafe food storage, and
unhealthy lifestyles and behaviors.
7.    Currently, the Iraqi health system is suffering from institutional inefficiencies due to
inadequate resource allocation (financial and workforce) and poor management. The health
system's physical infrastructure suffers from severe deterioration due to neglect over time and
consequences from last year's war and looting, whereby most of the health infrastructure remains
in poor condition and is critically lacking essential equipment.
8.    The Iraq Health Sector Situation and Strategy Options Assessment' reports that less than
one-third of Iraq's hospitals and health centers have adequate facilities to provide emergency
obstetric care. For example, it is estimated that 65% of births occur outside of health facilities,
and the proportion of deliveries without trained assistance has increased since the 1990s to 30%
in urban areas and 40% in rural areas at the present time. Approximately 15-20% of deliveries
classify as high-risk and require emergency obstetric support. Given these obstacles, the
maternal mortality ratio in Iraq is extremely high and is estimated to be 300 per 100,000 live
births. The needs are urgent for improved emergency obstetric care, given the bleak maternal
mortality indicators. It is therefore imperative to upgrade key facilities with the essential
emergency equipment, drugs, training and referral capacity to provide adequate emergency
obstetric care to the population.
9.    The 2003 UN/WB Joint Iraq Needs Assessment identified US$1.6 billion of needs for the
health sector in the next four years, focusing on: (i) restoration of effective control and
l Drafted in October 2003 by the Ministry of Health, the Coalition Provisional Authority, the UN Development
Group and the World Bank.



4
implementation for public health programs; (ii) equitable access and focus on women, children
and other vulnerable groups; (iii) rehabilitation of essential infrastructure and provision of
equipment; (iv) resolution of imbalances in the distribution and skill-mix of health professionals;
and (v) initiation of a national health plan. More recently, the Ministry of Health has calculated
estimates for basic rehabilitation of the health sector to be at least US$4.0 billion over the next
four years.
10.   In a recent meeting in July 2004 between the senior staff of the Ministry of Health and
the donor community (World Bank, UN agencies, and some bilaterals), the following overall
priority areas were identified by the Ministry: (i) pharmaceuticals, vaccines and medical
equipment; (ii) emergency medical services; (iii) essential infrastructure rehabilitation; (iv)
health information system; (v) communicable disease control and surveillance; (vi)
communication equipment (hardware); (vii) capacity building and human resources
development; (viii) communication and health promotion strategy for the health sector; (ix)
health management; (x) primary health care; (xi) food safety; and (xii) donor coordination.
11.   In view of the health situation in Iraq, where infant and maternal mortality rates are
extremely high and conflict-related injuries are very common, and taking into account the
priority areas identified by the MOH and the donor community, this Project will meet several of
the urgent needs listed above in response to the current post-conflict situation. Of the twelve
aforementioned priority areas, this Project is designed to address five in a manner involving
technical soundness, quick implementation, proper procurement and financial management: (i)
pharmaceuticals and medical equipment; (ii) emergency medical services; (iii) essential
infrastructure rehabilitation; (iv) capacity building and human resources development; and (v)
health management.
Existing Health Infrastructure
12.   Existing Hospitals. There are more than 240 hospitals in Iraq. Of these, 172 are
government-owned and operated, of which approximately 12% were partially damaged and/or
looted in 2003. It is widely known that most hospitals have suffered from neglect over the last
two decades, exacerbated by the aftermath of the 2003 war. There has been a systematic lack of
maintenance of the physical infrastructure, essential drugs and equipment, and looting has
worsened the conditions in most facilities. In particular, emergency medical services at Iraqi
hospitals are in a severely inadequate state, where emergency and critical care principles are
lacking, and in many cases, even aseptic management is clearly absent. Shortages of essential
and emergency medicines have been recurrent within the Iraqi hospital system.
13.   Primary Health Care Facilities. From a total of 1,285 primary health care centers
(PHCs), at least two-thirds require essential rehabilitation, including access to safe water,
electricity, sanitation and medical waste treatment facilities. Over the last two decades, the
MOH has not been able to maintain its facilities adequately and, as a result, they have become
dilapidated and dysfunctional. Due to lack of maintenance or loss to post-war looting, absence
of existing or functional equipment is widely reported. More than 80% of health centers lack
such basic items as stethoscopes, sphygmomanometers, sterilizers and weighing scales.



5
14.   While significant donor commitments have been made towards the construction of new
health facilities, no significant commitments have been made to rehabilitate the existing health
facilities. Funding from the US Program Management Office (PMO) is planned for a limited
number of new health centers (150), but the MOH notes severe delays in its implementation and
the number of centers expected to be constructed is not sufficient to meet the current needs.
PMO funding is also planned for a new maternity hospital and a new pediatric hospital. The
MOH has identified the rehabilitation of selected key hospitals, and primary health care
facilities, particularly in rural areas, as an urgent and priority need that would help to improve the
quality of and access to basic health services in the shortest period of time.
Existing Human Resource Capacity
15.   The MOH capacity to formulate and implement policies, and manage the provision of
basic services remains very weak. Empowerment of the Iraqi health system requires more than
political will, and skills must be strengthened. Substantial investments are urgently needed to
build up a sufficient capacity at the central, Governorate, and district levels. Such training
activities include health planning, national health accounts, health policy and health care
financing, project management, financial management and procurement (including
pharmaceutical procurement).
16.   The establishment of an adequate level of managerial capacity has been recognized as
critical. Some donors have begun work on such areas as clinical training (WHO and JICA), but
the need to strengthen the management capacity at both the central and Govemorate levels and
support public health training remains largely unmet. Iraq currently has very few, if any,
qualified public health specialists and no system is in place to train health staff in this area.
B.    BANK RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
17.   In January 2004, the World Bank's Board of Executive Directors discussed an Interim
Strategy Note of the World Bank Group for Iraq and authorized the Bank to act as administrator
of the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund.
18.   The World Bank Group's interim strategy, which initially covered the period February-
October 2004 is still in effect, and the Bank's work remains within the framework of the
strategy. The strategy focuses on: (i) building Iraqi capacity which is urgently needed for the
reconstruction program; (ii) preparing and implementing emergency operations to generate
employment and restore essential infrastructure and services; and (iii) laying the foundation for
the medium-term program, through studies and policy advice.
19.   The strategy relies on the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund (ITF) to finance projects, and on
Bank budget for the economic and sector work and policy advice that is needed. The ITF has
about US$370 million to cover nine projects. One project has been completed, three are under
way, and five are in the final stages of preparation. The interim strategy also includes building
blocks of analytical work to support the transition to a diversified market economy and the
development of a social protection system. Analytical work has been grouped into three clusters:
economic reform and transition, public sector management, and poverty and safety nets; and two



6
sectors: health and education. A multi-sectoral institutional capacity building program has
already commenced.
20.   The proposed Project aims to address the most urgent needs of the health sector,
stemming from years of neglect, the recent conflict, and dramatic increases in violence in areas
that had until recently been relatively untouched. Expected to be implemented within 24 months
after Project Effectiveness, the Project will be used to establish a model for planning,
procurement and financial management within the health sector. It will also allow for the
development of a standardized approach to rehabilitation of health facilities and will constitute
the most effective way for the MOH to acquire the capacity it needs to manage longer-term
reconstruction and rehabilitation activities.
21.   Discussions have been held between the Bank and the Iraqi authorities concerning future
support to the health sector, possibly in the form of a three to four year investment project that
would follow the initial Grant. In planning the follow-on investment, the MOH will focus on
longer-term needs for the sector and will prepare a more comprehensive project. Possible areas
identified include: (i) support for the repair and rehabilitation of Primary Health Centers,
including provision of basic medical equipment and supplies; (ii) continued support for the
repair, rehabilitation and equipping of priority hospital services, such as Emergency Units and
Emergency Obstetric Services, building on the results of the first Project; (iii) continued
capacity-building and training for MOH staff, (iv) with the involvement of other donors, support
to the creation of a School of Public Health, responding to the needs of the country but with the
potential to become a regional training institution; (v) assistance in reform of the pharnaceutical
sector; and (vi) assistance in the design of health policies and health systems reformns. This
follow-on investment would be further elaborated at a later date, based on emerging priorities
and the results of the initial Project.
22.    Given the situation in the health sector, the Minister of Health has approached the World
Bank to request assistance in addressing the most urgent rehabilitation needs to strengthen the
Iraqi health system and increase its capacity to alleviate the currently soaring infant and maternal
mortality rates. Areas of priority would include:
* Hospital rehabilitation, particularly Emergency Services capabilities and provision of
essential emergency equipment and pharmaceuticals
* Capacity-building and training of MOH staff
23.   Building on the stated priorities of the MOH, the Bank can play an important role in
supporting the rehabilitation of the health sector in Iraq, based on the Bank's comparative
advantages, including: (i) applicable experiences from relevant development and post-conflict
situations, in particular within the past decade; (ii) "best practice" models that can be applied to
the current context; (iii) in-depth knowledge and expertise in health systems development; (iv)
extensive experience in helping Governments to work effectively with NGOs; and (v) in its role
as financier of last resort, the ability to mobilize additional financing to address the most critical
needs for basic health service delivery throughout the country.



7
24.   Lessons from Post-Conflict Experience. Based on the World Bank's recent experience in
post-conflict countries such as Afghanistan, East Timor, Bosnia, Algeria, Sierra Leone and
Kosovo, a number of important lessons have been learned and introduced into the design of the
proposed project. Below are key lessons learned:
* For emergency recovery projects, a simple project design that can be quickly and
visibly implemented is most effective.
*  The project should be part of a programmatic framework based on needs assessment
of the sector and close collaboration with other key donors.
*  Support to emergency priorities should be coupled with capacity building for the
implementing institutions and entities in order to improve their ability to implement
current and consecutive programs.
* In contexts where direct Bank supervision is not possible, adequate training should be
provided to local representatives to carry out oversight of the project activities.
*  In post-conflict situations where there are numerous donor agencies involved, support
should be provided to the MOH in establishing an effective coordinating mechanism.
This support could be in the form of technical assistance and training in setting up the
mechanism within the framework of the project, as well as through "informal"
technical advice from the Bank team itself to the relevant MOH counterparts. In
addition, the Bank needs to maintain good and frequent collaboration with
development partners.
C.    DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Project Objectives
25.   The principal objective of the Project is to improve access to quality emergency services
in selected health facilities to serve the urgent needs of the Iraqi population. This objective
would be achieved through: (i) rehabilitation of priority emergency services, including
emergency obstetric care in 12 selected hospitals, and the urgent provision of basic medical and
laboratory equipment to the selected rehabilitated hospitals; (ii) the provision of a 3 to 6 month
supply of up to 37 essential emergency drugs to be used at emergency facilities rehabilitated
through this project; (iii) continued support to strengthening of planning and management
capacity within the central and Governorate health administrations; and (iv) support to project
management. By the end of this project, it is expected that:
* Twelve carefully selected hospitals will have functioning emergency medical services
defined by adequate physical infrastructure, essential equipment and drugs, adequate
staffing and well-trained emergency teams.
* The Ministry of Health will have strengthened its planning and management capacity at
both central and Governorate levels.



8
Project Description
26.   The Project will comprise four components, to be implemented over a period of up to 24
months. It will be fully funded as a Grant under the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund, operating
under OP 8.50, Emergency Recovery Assistance. The four components are described below:
Component 1: Rehabilitation of Priority Emergency Services (estimated total cost US$21.4
million)
27.   The Project will support the repair, rehabilitation and equipping activities of hospital
emergency facilities to restore fully functional emergency services in 12 carefully selected
hospitals in 9 Govemorates of Iraq. These activities have been identified and prioritized using
explicit criteria of need, feasibility and affordability (see Annex 8A). Repairs and rehabilitation
will focus on the priority structural, electrical, mechanical and heating/air conditioning systems
for: (a) emergency room reception and administrative counter; (b) triage areas; (c) diagnostic
services rooms; (d) patient examination areas; (e) patient wards; (f) minor surgery operating
theatre; (g) doctors' and nurses' offices and rest areas; (h) nurses' station; (i) emergency drug
dispensary; and (.) other support areas (sterilization room, kitchen, restrooms, storage, janitorial
space).
28.   The Project will also provide the selected facilities with their most urgent needs in
diagnostic and therapeutic equipment for emergency services, including specific emergency
room equipment. Examples of such equipment selected are: diagnostic equipment, emergency
resuscitation equipment, and emergency life support equipment (see Annex 8B for a complete
list of specific planned investments).
29.   This first phase of the reconstruction effort will concentrate on establishment of a
sustainable model for planning, procurement and financial management. It will allow for the
development of a standardized approach to the rehabilitation of health facilities and will
constitute the most effective way for the MOH to acquire the capacity it needs to manage longer-
term  reconstruction/rehabilitation activities.  The Project will provide financing for the
rehabilitation activities, emergency medical equipment and technical assistance for design and
supervision of the sites.
Component 2: Provision of Essential Emergency Drugs (estimated total cost US$2.9 million)
30.   The Project will support the procurement and distribution of a 3 to 6 month supply of up
to 37 essential emergency drugs to be used at the 12 emergency facilities rehabilitated under
Component 1. Categories of essential emergency drugs include the following: (i) general
anesthetics; (ii) preoperative medication and sedatives; (iii) anti-infective drugs; (iv)
cardiovascular drugs; and (v) oral and parenteral solutions. This component will be supported
through the provision of pharmaceuticals.



9
Component 3: Capacity Building and Training (estimated total cost US$1.7 million)
31.   The Project will support capacity-building and training activities in Emergency Medical
Services for the 12 selected sites. These activities will include: (i) technical training of
emergency 5-person teams from each selected site to improve the quality of emergency services;
(ii) training in management of emergency services for the hospital directors, emergency chief
doctors, head nurses and central-level emergency services planners; and (iii) the development of
a comprehensive national plan for strengthening emergency health care services. Additionally,
the Project will support training to build the general capacity of MOH in health planning and
management at both the central and Govemorate levels. A number of short-term training
programs will allow for the constitution of a core group of public health and health management
specialists. The project will also provide assistance to the MOH in developing a sustainable plan
for procurement and distribution of essential emergency drugs. This component will be
supported through the provision of technical assistance and training activities.
Component 4: Project Management (estimated total cost US$ 0.9 million)
32.   The objective of this component is to ensure effective administration and coordination of
the project activities. The Project Management Team (PMT) will comprise 11 staff, five of
whom will be local consultants hired under the Project. PMT staff will include: a Project
Director to manage and coordinate the implementation of the Project; a Deputy Project Director
to be responsible for day-to-day management of the project; a Technical Coordinator to ensure
that the technical aspects of the project are being implemented; a Procurement Officer, assisted
by three staff, to supervise tendering, purchasing and delivery of works, goods and services; a
Financial Officer, assisted by an accountant, to maintain project financial records; an
Administrative Secretary, and a Junior Secretary to support the needs of the office. Drivers for
the three project vehicles and a messenger will also be hired to support the project.
33.   The component will finance: (i) minor refurbishment of the PMT offices agreed between
the MOH and the Bank; (ii) adequate office equipment and supplies, and three project vehicles;
(iii) technical assistance and training for PMT staff in project management, procurement and
financial management; (iv) annual external audit of the project; and (v) operating costs for the
PMT, including vehicle and equipment operation and maintenance, communications costs,
banking fees, transportation costs, meeting expenses, advertisement fees, representation, and
office security arrangements.
D.    INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
34.   The World Bank is supporting the MOH to undertake the emergency rehabilitation of 12
hospital emergency units throughout Iraq, including provision of civil works, medical equipment,
priority emergency pharmaceuticals for the 12 sites, and technical assistance and training to
strengthen the performance of the emergency teams in these sites, as well as to develop greater
capacity within the MOH in the areas of: health systems management and planning, procurement
and financial management, and procurement and distribution of drugs.
35.   This section describes in detail the implementation of the Emergency Health
Rehabilitation Project, which will provide urgent support in the areas described above.



10
Implementation Arrangements
36.   This project is the first in the health sector to be financed from the World Bank Iraq Trust
Fund (ITF) within the International Reconstruction Fund Facility for Iraq (IRFFI). The Ministry
of Planning and Development Cooperation (MOPDC) is the Government's designated donor
coordination agency for Iraq's reconstruction program.
37.   A Project Management Team (PMT) will be established to coordinate and manage the
Emergency Health Rehabilitation Project (EHRP) under the authority of the Ministry of Health.
The PMT will have the responsibility for the day-to-day management, coordination and
monitoring of the Project activities. The Project will adopt the management structure put in
place for EHRP (Annex 3).
38.   The PMT will: (i) coordinate project implementation, and manage the resources of the
project; (ii) procure all Bank-financed goods and services under the project; (iii) operate the
financial management system according to World Bank requirements; (iv) act as liaison between
the technical agencies involved in the project and the World Bank; and (v) carry out, on an
annual basis, an independent audit of the project. Specifically, in its management capacity, the
PMT will ensure that: (a) the project activities are well-coordinated; (b) issues affecting or
potentially affecting project implementation are identified and addressed in a timely manner; (c)
technical advice is provided to project component coordinators and relevant MOH staff in how to
develop work plans, write terms of reference, and effectively manage consultant services; (d)
safeguard issues are addressed in compliance with the Environmental and Social Assessment
Framework (ESSAF); (e) necessary project inputs are provided in a timely and cost-effective
manner; (f) project resources are appropriately managed in accordance with Bank requirements
for procurement and financial management; (g) effective project monitoring and progress
reporting are carried out; and (h) there is a systematic out-reach to various stakeholders to
promote project objectives.
39.   Since most of the project activities will take place in selected hospitals, the PMT/MOH
and the MOH Directorates at the Governorate level will need to agree on operational and
administrative procedures prior to implementation. As ownership, participation and commitment
of the local health authorities are critical for the successful implementation of the project, much
attention will be given to this process. A detailed implementation plan for each of the
components is in Annex 9.
40.   All procurement for project activities will be carried out at the central MOH level, with
participation as needed from the MOH Directorates level. Given the urgency of this project, it
has been decided that a technical assistance firm will be selected under the project to provide
support and training to the PMT in procurement. This support will involve: (i) preparing civil
works design and tender documents; (ii) preparing tender documents for medical equipment; (iii)
providing support and advice in carrying out of tendering and selection procedures for both
rehabilitation and medical equipment; and (iv) giving on-the-job training to the PMT staff and
other relevant staff within the MOH. The technical assistance firm for this assignment should
have extensive prior experience in World Bank procurement guidelines and procedures, as well
as the technical and logistics capacity to provide this support within the current security
environment in Baghdad.



11
Implementation of Component 1: Rehabilitation of Priority Emergency Services
41.   The activities under this component cover physical rehabilitation of existing hospital
emergency unit facilities and the provision of priority medical equipment and furniture for these
facilities. Responsibility for the implementation of this component will rest with the MOH/PMT
in coordination with the health authorities at the Directorate and hospital levels. The MOH
Department responsible for the rehabilitation activities will be the Operations Department, and
the Directorate of Specialized Medical Services will be responsible for the delivery of the
medical equipment. The PMT will coordinate with these departments to ensure that the activities
are carried out according to the project implementation plan. To accelerate the start-up process,
each hospital emergency unit will hire a different consultant firm to prepare the architectural
design for the site. These firms will be managed by the MOH Govemorate level engineer, in
coordination with the hospital management.
42.   For the medical equipment, the MOH has already prepared generic lists, and 20 items
have been identified for procurement. These items range from US$360 to US$45,000, and have
been selected based on criteria agreed between the MOH and the Bank. The procurement and
delivery of the medical equipment for the 12 selected facilities will be carried out in coordination
with the rehabilitation activities, to ensure that the delivery and installation take place at the
appropriate point in the rehabilitation process. In addition, preliminary plans have been prepared
by the MOH for the use of temporary substitute sites7 for the emergency facilities that will be
rehabilitated to ensure that the emergency services are not compromised by the project activities
during the rehabilitation phase.
Implementation of Component 2: Provision of Essential Emergency Drugs
43.   Procurement and distribution of the essential emergency pharmaceuticals to the 12
selected hospital emergency services units will be the responsibility of the MOH. The drug lists
and quantities have already been prepared, and the procurement specialists of the PMT will
prepare the tender documents. The pharmaceuticals will be procured through one tender, using
ICB procedures except for one direct contract for the procurement of alteplase injection as there
is only single manufacturing source in the world. A Special Committee will be established by
the MOH to evaluate the bids and select the winning bidder.
44.   According to the contract conditions, the delivery of the pharmaceuticals will be directly
to the selected hospitals. The MOH will form a committee to receive the pharmaceuticals and
ensure that they are consistent with the contract. The hospital Director will have overall
responsibility for the appropriate storage and disposition of the pharmaceuticals that are
received. Technical assistance will also be provided to assist the MOH to develop an improved
drug supply chain for the country.



12
Implementation of Component 3: Capacity Building and Training
45.   Responsibility for the implementation of this component will rest with MOH/PMT in
coordination with the Directorate of Specialized Medical Services and the Center for Training
and Human Development. The PMT will be responsible for ensuring the provision and
coordination of necessary inputs with the necessary departments.
46.   Activities under this component cover the capacity-building and training activities in
Emergency Medical Services for the 12 selected sites.  MOH/PMT will coordinate the
emergency medical services activities with the Directorate of Specialized Medical Services and
will ensure that the following training activities are conducted: (i) technical training of five-
person emergency teams from each selected site to improve the quality of emergency services;
(ii) training in management of emergency services for the hospital directors, emergency chief
doctors, head nurses and central-level emergency services planners; and (iii) the development of
a national plan for strengthening emergency health care services. Additionally, the PMT will
coordinate the MOH health systems management and planning training with the Center for
Training and Human Development. These trainings will involve MOH staff in these areas from
both central and Directorate levels.
Implementation of Component 4: Project Management
47.   The Ministry of Health will be responsible for ensuring that the PMT is duly established
and staffed with sufficient expertise and skills to carry out the implementation of the project. In
addition, the MOH is responsible for securing adequate office space within the Ministry for the
PMT. The PMT will act as both the coordinating unit for technical implementation of the
components, and the "business office" for the project.
48.   The PMT will comprise: (i) a Director, who is responsible for coordinating the day-to-
day project activities, as well as the business office functions of project management, and liaising
with the World Bank and the MOH Departments implementing project components; (ii) a
Deputy Director, who supports the Director in overall management of the PMT, as well as
providing back-up to the Director in his/her absence; (iii) a Technical Coordinator who will
ensure coordination of the technical aspects of the project; (iv) a Financial Officer and
Accountant; (v) a Procurement Officer and three specialists (civil works, equipment/drugs, and
consultant services); and (vi) an Executive Secretary and Junior Secretary. In addition, there will
be drivers for the three project vehicles and a messenger.
49.   The PMT staff will have the opportunity through the Project to receive training relevant
to their assignments, in the areas of procurement, financial management, monitoring and
evaluation, and in project management. Initial courses in these areas have already been provided
to selected MOH staff by the Bank outside of Iraq in the region during the preparation period,
and these will be continued penrodically under the project.
50.   Experience with health projects within the region has shown that clear definition of
implementation procedures, including the PMT responsibilities and support to project activities,
is a very important element of a successful project. In order to achieve this objective, the MOH
will select well-qualified staff for the PMT, including a full-time Deputy PMT Director and a



13
Technical Coordinator to support the PMT Director, to ensure that the appropriate oversight and
management of the project activities are in place. The Project Implementation Manual (PIM) is
being prepared in conjunction with the relevant technical staff in the MOH central and
Govemorate offices. However, it is recognized that the PIM is a starting point intended to ensure
clear understanding between the implementing agency and the Bank, and is not to be used as a
"straight jacket". The PJIM can be revised during project implementation with the mutual
agreement of the Bank and Government.
Procurement
General
51.   Procurement for this project will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Trust Fund Grant Agreement. The general description
of various items under different expenditure categories is given below. For each contract to be
financed by the Grant, the procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for
prequalification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between
the Recipient and the Bank project team in the Procurement Plan (PP). The PP will be updated as
required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in institutional
capacity. A general procurement notice was published in the UNDB in November 2004 and will
be revised after approval.
52.   Procurement of Works. Works procured under this project will include rehabilitation of
hospital emergency units. Due to the small value of each contract and the volatile security
conditions in Iraq, it is not expected that international contractors will be interested in the works
contracts. All procurement of works will follow National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Thus, no
contract is expected to be procured using International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures;
however, international contractors would be eligible to bid on NCB contracts if they choose to
participate. The procurement based on NCB procedure will be done using the Bank's Standard
Bidding Document (SBD) for small works. Once an NCB bidding document for works is
prepared (currently under preparation as part of the Master Implementation Manual (MIM)),
reviewed and found satisfactory to the Bank, it will be used instead of the Bank's SBD for NCB
procurement.
53.   Procurement of Goods. Goods procured under this project will include procurement of
pharmaceuticals and medical equipment, hospital furniture, office furniture, computers and
office supplies needed by the MOH-PMT for the project implementation. The procurement will
be done using ICB, NCB, Shopping procedures, and in exceptional cases, Direct Contracting
may be used for procurement of goods of small value such as office supplies and equipment as
described in the procurement plan. Pharmaceuticals and medical equipment will be procured
using International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures and the SBD for procurement of
health goods. Single source will only be used in exceptional cases for the procurement of
pharmaceuticals. Although the preferred method for the procurement of pharmaceuticals is
based on grouping the items into lots, it seems that the list of pharmaceuticals to be purchased
under the project may not be grouped into lots that will attract responsive bids from



14
manufacturers. Thus, it is expected that the procurement of pharmaceuticals will be on an item-
by-item basis. The procurement based on NCB procedure will be done using the Bank's SBD
for procurement of goods. Once an NCB bidding document for goods is prepared (currently
under preparation as part of the Master Implementation Manual), reviewed and found
satisfactory to the Bank, it will be used instead of the Bank's SBD for NCB procurement.
54.   Selection of Consultants. Consultant services procured under this project will include: (i)
selection of an international procurement consulting firm to support the building of MOH
capacity to manage procurement activities; (ii) selection of individual consultants and/or firms to
provide training and assessment studies in the pharmaceutical sector; (iii) capacity building in
financial management; and (iv) selection of local consulting firms to provide consultancy
services in engineering, bidding document preparation and construction supervision. The
procurement consulting firm will be selected based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ)
procedures. All consulting services including those for architectural design and supervision will
be selected based on CQ procedures with the exceptions of selection of five PMT consultants
and the pharmaceutical sector consultants which will use selection procedures for individual
consultants
55.   Operating Costs: The Grant will finance expenditures directly related to the management
of the project, such as: (i) maintenance of office equipment; (ii) transportation and travel,
including per diem allowances for Project staff in travel status; (iii) office supplies, utilities and
office administration, including translation, printing and advertising; (iv) fuel costs; (v)
communication costs; (vi) costs for production of bidding documents and drawings; and (vii)
commercial bank charges. No salaries of the Recipient's civil servants will be financed under the
project. The operating costs that will be financed by the project will be procured using the MOH
administrative procedures for shopping satisfactory to the Bank.
Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement
56.   A generic assessment of Iraqi ministries' capacity to implement project procurement was
conducted in March 2004. Given that the security conditions prevented the Bank project team
from traveling to Iraq at the time of project preparation, a quick assessment of the capacity of the
MOH to implement procurement actions for the project was also carried out by the team's Senior
Procurement Specialist in October 2004 through discussions with MOH staff in Jordan during
the pre-appraisal/appraisal of the project. Subsequently, the generic assessment has been revised
to reflect the MOH's capacity to implement procurement.
57.   Procurement activities for the project will be carried out by the PMT, in collaboration
with relevant departments of MOH. There is no centralized procurement department in the
current organizational structure of the MOH. Procurement is carried out by each department of
the MOH. There will be separate committees for bid opening and bid analysis and evaluation.
These committees would be established on ad hoc basis, with a minimum of three members from
different departments.
58.   At the MOH Headquarters, the Directorate of Projects and Engineering Services
prepares/reviews bidding documents, including drawings, bill of quantities, general and special



15
contract conditions and technical specifications for priority health care and hospital rehabilitation
and new construction. In the past, the MOH has implemented more than 30 new additions and
rehabilitation of primary health care projects, valued at approximately US$50 million.
59.   A Ministerial decree has been issued recently stipulating that procurement for major
hospitals with a value of less than 50 million Iraqi Dinars can be conducted at the hospital level.
For contracts valued at less than 300 million Iraqi Dinars, procurement can be conducted at the
Health Directorate level. For amounts above this threshold, the Directorate can advertise,
receive, open, evaluate bids, but has to get the approval from the Ministry for final
recommendation to award and endorsement before signing the contracts.
60.   KIMADIA is the State Company for the Marketing of Drugs and Medical Appliances
which operates as a department of the Ministry of Health in Iraq. KIMADIA has managed the
procurement of pharmaceuticals and medical equipment for MOH for many years, mainly
through the medium of tendering to a list of registered manufacturers and suppliers. KIMADIA
has the following main responsibilities: (i) purchasing from all local and international
companies; (ii) distribution of drugs, medical supplies and equipment according to the needs of
health institutions nationally; (iii) maintenance and servicing of medical equipment in health
institutions; and (iv) procurement, receipt, warehousing and distribution of pharmaceuticals and
hospital supplies and equipment.
61.   All manufacturers and suppliers wishing to supply to the MOH need to be registered as a
supply source. The process involves submission of technical information on the company and its
products and of samples. The samples undergo testing in the laboratories of the drug regulatory
authority which involves significant delays due to recent damage to the laboratories. Because of
these delays, it has been agreed that for any unregistered suppliers wishing to participate in the
Bank-financed tender, the requirement to supply samples will be waived provided the bidders
can provide evidence that they have FDA and/or EU approval to supply their products.
62.   It has long been acknowledged that KIMADIA will need substantial capacity building to
incorporate the principles of open competitive tendering. KIMADIA and the MOH on whose
behalf they act will gain significant benefit from training in the methodologies of internationally
accepted procurement practices. This training is supported under the proposed project, both
through provision of technical specialists to support the day-to-day management of procurement,
and through training courses.
63.   To strengthen the procurement capacity of the MOH, a procurement officer will be
appointed to the MOH-PMT. A simple PIM is under preparation (it is expected that the manual
will be ready by December 31, 2004) and the MOH-PMT will use this manual in the
implementation of the project. The PIM will be aligned with the Master Implementation Manual
as soon as the latter becomes available. The MIM is a global manual for all the projects under
the ITF.
64.   Private Sector Assessment. The private sector, local and foreign, participates in public
procurement of goods and services. Registration of national contractors by the MOPDC is a
routine practice. Contractors are classified and ranked against criteria, including experience,



16
performance, and financial status. There are some 160 contractors classified as class A. A
procuring entity may limit the invitation to bid to certain classes of contractors. Based on a
meeting with the head of the contractors' union in Iraq during the mission in Amman, local
contractors appear to be capable of executing the type of works contracts proposed under the
project, and even much larger projects. Demonstration of financial capacity of contractors may
be a difficult task as they are accustomed to working on a cash basis, especially during the
previous era. The contractors demonstrated that they have no problem getting bid securities
from local banks, and welcomed very much the opportunity for training on bid preparation.
Training on bid preparation is planned as part of the scope of work of the international
procurement consulting firm.
65.   There are several local consulting firms that appear to be capable of carrying out the
design, preparation of bidding documents and construction supervision. However, the local
consulting firms have no previous experience with preparation of proposals, and the quality of
their work still would need to be tested. Training on proposal preparation is planned as part of
the scope of work of the international procurement consulting firm.
66.   On the basis of the above information and analysis, it can be assumed that local private
sector contractors will be able to compete for and execute the contracts under this project.
67.   The Bank procurement speciaiist has already provided a quick training session on
procurement terminology and Bank procurement procedures to the MOH team. The procurement
officer for the project has been assigned by H.E. the Minister of Health during the appraisal
mission. The procurement officer attended procurement training conducted by the World Bank
Procurement Specialist in March - April, 2004 during his assignment on the ITF-financed
Emergency School Construction and Rehabilitation Project. The training included procurement
planning, bidding document preparation, procurement guidelines, procedures and methods for
procurement of works, goods and selection of consultants. Further procurement training will be
provided throughout project implementation by the procurement consulting firm and during the
Project launch workshop. During the mission, the procurement officer started preparing the
bidding documents for the procurement of pharmaceutical drugs with assistance from the Bank
team.
68.   The overall project risk for procurement is rated as high. Most of the issues and risks
concerning procurement under the project have been identified in the generic assessment of the
MOH's capacity to implement project procurement and include: (i) the lack of sound laws and
regulations, the lack of modem standard documentation, and the routine practices acquired by
procurement staff, specially those in KIMADIA, during the previous era which will take time to
change; (ii) weakness of MOH procurement staff in use of Bank procurement guidelines and
international sound procurement practices; (iii) inability of Bank procurement staff to supervise
the project in the field; (iv) delays in implementing the procurement plan due to lack of
experience in procurement planning and the volatile security conditions in Iraq; (v) increase of
prices of construction raw materials due to high demand and unavailability of these materials
which may impact subproject completion due to the unwillingness of contractors to continue
working based on old contract prices; (vi) possible looting of construction sites as well as
leakage of drugs outside the MOH stores to the private sector; and (vii) delays in the



17
implementation of some contracts as well as in bid submission, due to deteriorating security
conditions in some areas of the country.
69.   The corrective measures which have been agreed are: (i) a procurement officer is already
assigned as part of the MOH-PMT; (ii) simplified bidding documents and methods such as
shopping and NCB, a Bank bidding document for small works, the US Dollar as currency of bids
for NCB, and shopping will be used; (iii) in the contract, a statement will be included that
contractors will be responsible for guarding hospital construction sites during construction, and
an inventory of hospital fixtures will be documented before the contractor starts working. The
contractor will be responsible for these fixtures at the time of final handover of the project; (iv)
to mitigate the problem of inability of some contractors from a different locale to work in certain
areas of Iraq due to the security conditions, a clause in the works bidding document would be
added requesting bidders to provide a methodology for accessing the hospital site and
contractor's ability to work; (v) a decree was issued on June 23, 2004, by the Minister of Health
to rectify the shortcomings in the current procurement practice; and (vi) the procured drugs and
the medical equipment will be delivered directly to the 12 rehabilitated hospitals and not stored
in KIMADIA central stores. In addition, an international procurement consulting firm will be
hired by the MOH to build MOH capacities to: carry out and manage procurement activities; set
up within the MOH a procurement monitoring and reporting system; assist the MOH-PMT in
preparing/reviewing bidding documents and bid evaluation reports; and build procurement
capacity in the MOH. The procurement consulting firm will also conduct workshops for the local
contractors and local consultants on bid preparation and proposal preparation, respectively. In
addition, the consulting firm will be available to respond to ad hoc requests for advice or
training. Until security conditions in Iraq improve, training workshops may take place outside
the country (preferably in a neighboring country). An action plan will also be prepared by the
MOH-PMT to train the MOH staff in the Govemorates and in KIMADIA on procurement.
Procurement Plan
70.   The MOH, at appraisal, prepared a Procurement Plan (Annex 4) for project
implementation which provides the basis for the procurement methods to be used in this Project.
This plan was agreed between the MOH and the Bank project team on October 7, 2004, and will
be available in the project's database and on the Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan
will be updated in agreement with the Project Team as required to reflect the actual project
implementation needs and improvements in institutional capacity.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision
71.   In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, and based
on the capacity assessment of the Implementing Agency, at least one supervision mission is
planned every three months to visit the field to carry out post reviews of procurement. Until
security conditions make travel to Iraq possible for Bank staff, the Bank will employ Monitoring
Agents, independent firms which will operate in Iraq and support the Bank in carrying out its
supervision function, including spot physical inspection. In addition, the Bank will rely on
reports from a local procurement consultant who is working for the Bank from within Iraq.
During the interim period, Bank staff and the concerned Iraqi procurement staff will meet



18
outside Iraq to carry out off-site supervision as well as using videoconference facilities to
maintain effective communication on the progress of the Project.
Disbursement
72.   The proposed grant of US$25 million is expected to be disbursed by December 31, 2006.
Annex 5, Table A describes the allocation of the grant proceeds according to each expenditure
category.
*73.   The Bank's strategy in Iraq is to ensure Iraqi ownership and strengthen institutional
capacity by financing operations that are implemented by Iraqi ministries and other recipient
entities. Trained Project Management Teams (PMTs) will facilitate implementation and help
ensure compliance with fiduciary and other safeguards. PMTs will be employed and paid by the
implementing agency at regular salary levels, thereby avoiding the disadvantages of stand-alone
Project Implementation Units, which can erode civil service institutional capacity over the
medium and long term. The project will finance specialized technical support in procurement,
financial management, and other areas as needed. In addition, to ensure that project funds are
used for the purposes intended and to help carry out project supervision, the Bank will employ
two independent firms as fiduciary and safeguard Monitoring Agents.
74.   As a further compensating control, disbursements will be made primarily through direct
payment by the Bank to the contractors, consultants, and vendors. Once authorized by the MOH,
direct payments will be made by the World Bank directly into the account of the contractor,
consultant, or vendor in a commercial bank capable of receiving funds transferred from the
international banking system.
75.   The project management component and payments below the threshold of US$10,000
normally will be made through payments by the Recipient from its own resources. These
payments made from the Recipient's own resources will be reimbursed, on a periodic basis, by
the Bank to the MOH upon presentation of full supporting documents, proof of payment and a
signed withdrawal application. The Bank may later require the use of Statements of Expenditure
(SOE) for payments below US$10,000. The MOH-PMT and the main financial counterparts
from the MOH will be subject to intensive training in Bank disbursement procedures.
Financial Management
76.   Bank policies require that grant proceeds be used for the purposes for which they were
granted, with due regard to economy, efficiency, and the sustainable achievement of the project's
development objectives. The Recipient (MOH) is required in this regard, to maintain an
appropriate and adequate financial management system, including records and accounts, and to
prepare financial statements that accurately reflect the project operations, resources, and
expenditures. The Trust Fund Grant Agreement also commits the Recipient to have the accounts,
records, and financial statements of the grant audited for each fiscal year by a qualified auditor
acceptable to the Administrator following internationally accepted standards.



19
77.   Financial Management Risk Assessment. The financial management risk associated with
this operation is considered high. Critical risk factors are: (i) ongoing insecurity, which prevents
onsite Bank supervision and assessments, including financial management assessments; (ii) the
Bank's limited knowledge of Iraq's public financial management systems, controls, and
procedures; (iii) the limited knowledge on the part of Iraqi authorities of Bank policies and
guidelines; (iv) the possibility of MOH not making available on a timely basis financial
resources to honor payments below the value of US$10,000; (v) difficult communication and
flow of information between worksites and the PMT, which could delay payments; (vi)
inefficiencies in Iraq's banking system that may delay payments and transfer of funds to
contractors, suppliers, or MOH; and (vii) variation order requests that may exceed price
contingencies and difficulties may be encountered in verifying justifications for variation orders.
Although the project design mitigates these risks to the extent possible, the project will require
close monitoring and supervision during implementation.
78.   The control risks will be mitigated by putting in place additional controls and procedures,
including: (i) the PMT will verify and authorize all payments under the project and verify
justifications for variation orders; (ii) the PMT will be assigned competent financial staff from
the MOH who will be supported, as needed, by financial management consultants; (iii) the MOH
has identified qualified staff from the MOH finance department, including the internal auditor,
who will track the project activities, ensuring that the MOH team is well-informed about Bank
guidelines and policies and is able to track project transactions and provide support to the PMT;
(iv) disbursements by the Bank will be made primarily through direct payments supported by
documentation; (v) the fiduciary Monitoring Agent will review project expenditures and
withdrawal applications; and (vi) appropriate training of finance staff at the PMT will be
provided.
79.   The accounting and reporting risks will be managed by putting in place a simple parallel
accounting system to record all project expenditures, monitor project commitments in real time
during the implementation period, and provide the data needed to generate project reporting,
including the Bank required Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR).
80.   With respect to project auditing arrangements, an external independent auditor with
international experience will be engaged to perform the project audits and issue an independent
opinion on project financial statements. This external audit report will encompass all project
activities and will be presented in accordance with internationally accepted auditing standards.
The audit report along with the related financial statements should be submitted to the Bank not
later than four months after the end of the Government's fiscal year.
81.   All the above activities and procedures will be documented in a chapter of the Project
Implementation Manual which will be in line with the Master Implementation Manual (MIM).
Details on project risks, mitigation measures, and financial management arrangements are in
Annex 5.



20
Project Supervision
82.   Project activities will be completed by December 2006. Supervision will include visits to
the MOH, MOF, MOPDC, and to hospital sites for the purpose of reviewing implementation
progress, impact of project activities, and related documentation.
83.   The MOH-PMT will prepare and send to the Bank a quarterly progress report. The first
report will be due starting at the end of the first quarter following the initial disbursement. The
format of the report has been agreed during appraisal.
84.   The Bank, as the Iraq Trust Fund (ITF) Administrator, will supervise ITF-funded
operations in accordance with the Bank's applicable policies and procedures. While staff travel
to Iraq is restricted, supervision of recipient-executed operations will be carried out through
consultants and the Monitoring Agents. Each ITF-funded operation is required to include a
results-based supervision plan that reflects realities on the ground.
85.   Reporting to Donors. The Bank will maintain separate records and ledger accounts in
respect of the funds deposited by the donors with the Bank under the ITF. Within ninety (90)
days of the end of each quarter (March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31), the Bank
will prepare, on a cash basis, an un-audited statement of receipts, disbursements, and fund
balance with respect to the ITF and forward a copy to each donor. Each such statement will be
expressed in United States Dollars, the currency in which the ITF funds will be maintained by
the Bank. In addition, within one hundred and eighty (180) days of the completion of all
disbursements relating to activities financed from the ITF, the Bank will prepare on a cash basis
an un-audited financial statement of receipts, disbursements, and fund balance with respect to the
ITF and forward a copy to each donor.
86.   The Bank will furnish the donors:
(a) on a semi-annual basis, a consolidated report describing the operations of the ITF
(including contributions, disbursements, and implementation progress) in the
preceding six months; and
(b) on an annual basis, a management assertion, together with an attestation from the
Bank's external auditors, concerning the adequacy of internal control over cash-based
financial reporting for trust funds as a whole.
87.   The Bank will require a financial statement audit of the ITF to be performed by the
Bank's external auditors on an annual basis. The costs of such an audit, including the internal
costs of the Bank with respect to the audit, will be charged to the ITF. The Bank will provide
each donor with a copy of the auditor's report.
88.   The Bank will maintain close consultation and coordination with the donors. The Bank
will provide each donor to the ITF with semi-annual reports on its quarterly ex-post evaluation of
the activities undertaken by the Monitoring Agents. Within six months of completion of the
activities, or of full disbursement of the contributions, whichever comes later, the Bank will
provide a final progress report to each donor, together with a copy of the independent review of



21
the performance of the Monitoring Agents. Upon request by any donor, the Bank will send to
such donor the draft and final reports received by the Bank from the Monitoring Agents on the
activities financed by the contributions.
Environmental and Social Safeguards
89.   Environmental Safeguards: The Project is rated category "B". Impacts would be those
associated mainly with (i) rehabilitation works (e.g., safety, dust, noise, waste material, traffic);
(ii) provision of sanitary services, water supply and waste management; and (iii) maintenance of
facilities. Because of the emergency conditions, the requirement to carry out a limited
Environmental Analysis as part of project preparation will be waived. However, for sub-projects
with adverse environmental impacts, a limited Environmental Analysis will be done during
project implementation but before sub-project approval. The Environmental and Social
Screening and Assessment Framework (ESSAF) was disclosed in the country and in the
Infoshop on October 7, 2004. Based on the ESSAF, the following standards will be applied
during implementation: (i) inclusion of standard environmental codes of practice (ECOP) in the
rehabilitation and extension bid documents of all sub-projects (Annex 7A); (ii) use of Safeguard
Procedures for Inclusion in the Technical Specifications of Contracts (Annex 7B); (iii) use of the
Checklist of likely Environmental and Social Impacts of Subproject; (iv) review and oversight of
any major reconstruction works by specialists; (v) implementation of environmentally and
socially sound options for civil works; and (vi) provision for adequate .budget and satisfactory
institutional arrangements to monitor effective implementation and adequately maintain sanitary
facilities after completion. Capacity building on Safeguards and on the implementation of the
ESSAF has already been undertaken with the Ministry of Environment and other line Ministries.
Details on the handling of medical and non-medical waste are in Annex 7.
90.   Resettlement and Land Acquisition: There will be no construction of new facilities in the
Project. However, there will be some site extensions that will be limited to vacant sites that are
on public property assigned by the relevant authorities for the use of MOH. OP 4.12 should not
be triggered since there should not be any displacement of populations or new land acquisition.
However, the ESSAF, specifically elaborated for due diligence in the case of Iraq, should be
used to ensure that this is indeed the case and should there be any need for land acquisition or
population resettlement, the same guidelines will be followed.
91.   An MOH-PMT specialist will be trained in WB safeguards policies and MOH
engineering staff (or consultants where capacity is lacking) will carry out site supervisions to
check on compliance of contractors with environmental and social safeguards. Site supervision
reports will include a section on environmental and social safeguards that will be filed with the
MOH-PMT. The first three site supervision reports will be sent to the Bank for review.
E.    FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
92.   This project is prepared as part of the interim strategy of the World Bank in addressing
the pressing needs of the sector and according to the emergency recovery assistance procedures
(OP 8.50). The lack of reliable statistics, the limited economic information, and the speed at
which the project has been prepared have prevented more detailed analysis, a familiar constraint
in such operations. However, the benefits of the project's investment are expected to be



22
substantial compared to its costs, as it addresses urgent needs in an environment of devastated
infrastructure, deteriorating quality, and escalating needs. The project will support the
rehabilitation of 12 hospital emergency facilities in 9 Govemorates.        It is estimated that
approximately 14,500,000 persons living in the surrounding perimeters of the rehabilitated
facilities will have access to high quality emergency medical services that otherwise would not
have been adequately delivered. This Project will support expansion of the emergency room
capacity in the selected sites, improve the quality of emergency services, and reduce mortality, as
well as building the technical and management capacity of the MOH.
93.    Recurrent costs of the facilities rehabilitated by the Project will be met from the MOH
operational budget. Future maintenance costs of the 12 rehabilitated and equipped facilities will
be covered by the overall MOH budget and do not constitute a sustainability problem. However,
the sustainability of the pharmaceuticals procurement could become an issue during the medium
term. This being said, the expected resumption of oil exports in Iraq and the economic reform
policies that are being introduced are expected to stimulate sustainable growth over the medium
term and provide resources for such types of expenditure.
F. RISKS
94.    The political and security environment in Iraq is currently very unstable and uncertain,
and poses obvious risks to the proposed project. The table below provides a summary of the key
project risks that have been identified, and the measures to be taken to mitigate those risks.
Risk Analysis
Risk                      Rating              Mitigation Measures
From Outputs to Obiectives
New Iraqi adniinistration emerges from January        Keeping project simple. Working closely with
2005 elections- unknown outcomes that could     S     Ministry officials to ensure ownership.
affect project implementation
Administration changes in MOH - jeopardizing          Building relationships at the technical level with
current commitment to project design and inputs  M    current officials to ensure continuity in the event
of changes.
Multiple efforts and parallel tracking by the         Current multi-agency group, chaired by the MOH,
various agencies and bilateral donors causing         seeks to harmonize efforts and responsibilities.
fragmented reform efforts                      M      Also, the Iraqi Strategic Review Board (ISRB) and
its required approval before project financing will
ensure minimal overlap.
From Co    ponents to Outputs
Collection of comnprehensive information on the       Working with MOH to identify the major project
status/condition of facilities to enable planning and  L  sites by Govemorate and on the basis of agreed
priority setting may not be collectable within the    criteria. The MOH has already identified the sites.
time constraints of the Project
Security conditions deteriorate, making access by     Use of local contractors and local staff for
contractors to sites and supervision difficult  H     supervision, plus carefully crafted monitoring
arrangements by governorate/directorate assigned
staff



23
Financial management--inability to comply with        The current disbursement process of direct WB
Bank requirements due to systemic problems in         payments for large contracts will be adopted.
banking and accounting practices               M      Early consultation will be sought from Financial
Management consultants to design a simple system
that meets project needs and the Bank's financial
management requirements.
The Bank's inability to carry out in-country          Efforts are being made to identify local consultants
supervision                                           that would be contracted to assist in supervision.
S     In addition, special monitoring instruments would
be designed for the use of MOH implementation
staff and these supervision consultants.
Failure of government to meet the incremental         The capacity building component of the Project
operating and maintenance costs of the                will provide support to the Ministry in health
investments under the Project.                       services management budgeting and planning.
S     This will include development of monitoring tools
to track maintenance of health services facilities
and equipment.
Procurement Risks
The lack of adequate laws and regulations, of         A decree was issued by the Minister of Health
Thelakofdemqstandarddocuatentation and   p ence orectifying shortcomings in the current procurement
modern standard documentation, and persistence  H     practice at the MOH. Continuous training will be
of habits acquired by procurement staff in the        provided by an international procurement
previous era may take time to change.                 consulting firm.
The international procurement consulting firm will
provide training and support to the MOH on World
Lack of experience of procurement staff in            Bank procurement guidelines, bidding document
procurement using Bank procurement guidelines  H      preparation, bid evaluation. Close supervision by
and sound intemational procurement practice.          Bank staff, including Bank hired procurement
consultant based in Baghdad. A project launch
workshop is planned soon after grant signature.
Inability oBakpoueePost reviews and other procurement matters will
Inability of Bank procurement staff to supervise  H   be covered in the first instance by the local
the project in the field.                             procurement consultant working for the Bank.
The international procurement consulting firm will
provide training and support to the MOH-PMT and
Delays in implementing the procurement plan due      relevant MOH govemorate and hospital staff.
to lack of experience in procurement planning and  H  Workshops would be planned outside Iraq until
the volatile security conditions in Iraq.             conditon permd iernatnal conults aqntwo
condifion pemit international consultants work
within Iraq.
Possibility of high prices due to high demand on  H   Provision has been made in the Project budget for
local construction industry.                          price and physical confingencies.
International consulting firm will plan to conduct
training for consultants and contractors on
proposal preparation and bid preparation,
Contractors lack experience of Bank procurement  M    respectively. A pre bid meeting will be planned
procedures.                                           before bidders submit bids and MOH will stress
the requirement for responsive bids in this
meeting.



24
Use of local contractors and local staff for
supervision, plus monitoring arrangements by
Security conitonsdeerirae,makMOH directorate/hospital assigned staff as well as
Security conditions deteriorate,in  accesb      H      local consulting firms. A clause in the bidding
contractors to sites and supervision difficult.        document will be introduced requesting bidders to
provide a methodology for accessing the site and
conducting work in the hospital sites.
Provision in the bidding document will be
Leakage of drugs fom MOH/KIMADIA to private           introduced for the direct delivery by the supplier of
sector                                          M     drugs to the rehabilitated hospitals instead of going
into a general store in KIMADIA/MOH.
Financial Manageme nt Risks
Initial
Risk                       Risk
Rating
The Bank gained some knowledge on Iraqi PFM
system by appointing a consulting firm to assess
the financial management capacity of several Iraqi
Limited knowledge of the financial management  H      ministries. Bank staff also conducted their own
capacity in the MOH.                                  interviews with Iraqi officials in Amman and
reviewed PFM system documentation. Further
knowledge was gained from an audit report by an
intemational audit frrm
Limited capacity to manage financial requirements     The PMT will be staffed with Financial Officers,
of the Project.                                       including a qualified financial manager, a financial
officer, and a finance assistant, who will manage
H      disbursements from the proceeds of the grants,
managed and supervise project accounts, retain
financial records, and prepare project reports.
Lack of familiarity with Bank guidelines and    H     Training will be provided to MOH and MOH-PMT
regulations in MOH.                                        staff on Bank guidelines and regulations.
Difficulties in making payments to suppliers inside   All payments above US$ 10,000 will be made
and outside Iraq; possible risks associated with      through direct payments. Inefficiencies in the
Iraq banking sector.                                  banking and payment system in Iraq remain a
major risk factor for such payments. The Bank
H      uses Wachovia for US$ payment in Iraq. Also the
Bank discussed with Citi Bank and Standard
Chartered their abilities to transfer funds into Iraqi
Banks
Verification of work performed and goods              For works, the Monitoring Agent will review
delivered.                                            sample of works completed. The MOH will form a
H      committee to receive the pharmaceuticals and
ensure that they are consistent with the contract.
Accounting policies and procedures: may not meet      The Financial Operations chapter of the Project
Bank management and reporting requirements.           Implementation Manual will define financial
M      policies and procedures. The control policies
applicable to the MOH will be used to monitor the
project accounts.



25
The MOH not being able to provide funds from its     The Ministry's commitment to providing the
own resources to cover expenditures below     H      required funds will be sought during negotiations.
US$10,000.
Internal audit: Existing arrangements for internal   The Minister will assign one internal auditor
audit are not adequate and officials may not be     (champion) to review project transactions and will
familiar with project requirements.           M      report to the Minister. The assigned internal
auditor will be introduced to the project and
receive training on Bank guidelines in the PMT
Training Workshop.
External audit: Unknown capacity of auditing         External audit will be carried out by an
firms in Iraq. There was no capacity assessment     independent auditor with international experience
for the audit profession in Iraq to determine  H     and in accordance with terms of reference
capability to perform audits as per ISA.             acceptable to the Bank.
Reporting and Monitoring: Current MOH systems        A "ring-fenced" project accounting system,
do not generate required reports.             H      initially based on spreadsheet applications, will
generate the data for the FMRs.
Information systems: Not functioning reliably in  H    The use of simple spreadsheet-based reporting
MOH                                                          format has been agreed upon.
Difficulty in verifying justification for variation  PMT will be responsible for verifying variation
orders and possibility of variation orders           orders. The fiduciary monitoring agent will assist,
exceeding price contingencies.                       to the extent feasible. Price contingencies have
H     been calculated on the basis of recent prices. Given
the volatility of the market, however, should price
contingencies be insufficient to cover the variation
orders, scope of work will be scaled back.
Overall risk                                  H    I
H = High Risk; S = Substantial Risk; M = Modest Risk: N = Low or Negligible Risk



26
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING
Component                              Key Performance Indicators                            Source/Resp Party
Outputs                         Outcomes
1. Rehabilitation of priority  Number of emergency units       Number of emergency units     *  Procurement reports
emergency services in 12    rehabilitated.                     rehabilitations completed and  *  Field visits (PMT)
hospitals                                                      providing quality emergency   *  Progress reports
services.                       (PMT/Hospital managers)
Basic emergency equipment packages  Number of hospitals with new  *  Hospital utilization data
procured for the facilities rehabilitated.  emergency unit equipment in use.  (Hospitals and MoH statistics)
2. Provision of essential   Basic emergency pharmaceutical     Decreased incidence of        *   Procurement reports
emergency drugs             packages procured and distributed.  pharmaceutical shortages at the  *  Field visits (PMT)
facilities in a six month period.  .  Progress reports (PMT)
.  Quarterly hospital reports
(Hospital managers/PMT)
3. Capacity-building and    Number of training activities conducted  Number of staff trained in  * Participant evaluations/Self-
training of MoH staff       on emergency medical services for  emergency medical services       evaluations
facility EMS staff.                applying new skills.
* Follow-up survey regarding
Number of staff trained in management  Improved capacity of MOH staff in  application of methods learned
of EMS.                            health planning, management,
and procurement.              * PMT supervision
Number of MoH staff trained in health
planning, management and
procurement.
4. Project Management       Project management team inside the  Project management capacity  *   PMT reports
MoH with the capacity to prepare, issue, built in a core group of MoH staff
monitor and manage project activities.  and consultants.



27
ANNEX 2: SUMMARY COST TABLES
(US$ '000)
Project Cost Summary
Cost                 Trust
Including     % of     Fund        e
Contingencies   Total  Financing  Financing
1. Hospital Emergency Services                21,434    79.6    19,634       91.6
2. Provision of Essential Emergency Drugs      2,911    10.8     2,911      100.0
3. MOH Capacity Building                       1,668     6.2      1,668     100.0
4. Project Management                           911      3.4       786       86.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                             26,925    100.0    25,000      92.8
Components by Financiers
The Government       Trust Fund          Total
Amount     %      Amount     %     Amount      %
1. Hospital Emergency Services          1,800      8.4    19,634    91.6   21,434     79.6
2. Provision of Essential Emergency Drugs   -        -     2,911   100.0    2,911     10.8
3. MOH Capacity Building                    0        -     1,668   100.0    1,668      6.2
4. Project Management                     125     13.8      786     86.2      911      3.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                        1,925     7.2    25,000    92.8    26,925   100.0
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
The Government       Trust Fund          Total
Amount     %      Amount     %     Amount      %
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Extensions                           -       -     4,339    100.0    4,339    16.1
Rehabilitation                       -       -     8,577    100.0    8,577    31.9
Temporary Emergency Units /a     1,800    100.0        -       -     1,800     6.7
Subtotal Civil Works               1,800     12.2   12,915     87.8   14,715    54.7
B. Goods
1. Medical Equipment                 -       -     4,024   100.0     4,024    14.9
2. Office & Other Equip.             -       -       233    100.0     233      0.9
3. Furniture                         -       -     1,238    100.0    1,238     4.6
4. Pharmaceuticals                   -       -     2,855    100.0    2,855    10.6
Subtotal Goods                         -       -     8,350    100.0    8,350    31.0
C. Consultant Services
1. Design and Supervision            -       -     1,328   100.0     1,328     4.9
2. Technical Assistance
Firms                              -       -      255    100.0      255      0.9
Individual Consultants          125     40.6       184    59.4      309      1.1
Subtotal Technical Assistance      125    22.2      439     77.8      564      2.1
Subtotal Consultant Services         125      6.6    1,767    93.4     1,892     7.0
E. Training                            -       -     1,862    100.0    1,862     6.9
F. Operating Costs                     -       -       105    100.0     105      0.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                   1,925     7.2    25,000    92.8   26,925    100.0
\a To substitute existing units during rehabilitation (Financed by MOH)



28
Expenditure Accounts by Components
(US$ 000)
Provision
of
Hospital  Essential  MOH
Emergency Emergency Capacity    Project
Services   Drugs    Building Management   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Extensions                         4,339         -        -           -    4,339
Rehabilitation                     8,577         -        -           -    8,577
Temporary Emergency Units /a       1,800         -        -           -    1,800
Subtotal Civil Works                14,715         -        -           -   14,715
B. Goods
1. Medical Equipment               4,024         -        -           -    4,024
2. Office & Other Equip.             129         -        -        104       233
3. Fumiture                        1,238         -        -           -    1,238
4. Pharmaceuticals                     -     2,855        -           -    2,855
Subtotal Goods                       5,391     2,855        -        104     8,350
C. Consultant Services
1. Design and Supervision          1,328         -        -           -    1,328
2. Technical Assistance
Firms                                -         -        -        255      255
Individual Consultants               -        56        -        253       309
Subtotal Technical Assistance          -        56        -        508       564
Subtotal Consultant Services         1,328        56        -        508     1,892
E. Training                              -         -    1,668        194     1,862
F. Operating Costs                       -         -        -        105      105
Total PROJECT COSTS                   21,434      2,911    1,668        911   26,925
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                    11,020     2,860    1,490        324    15,694
\a To substitute existing units during rehabilitation (Financed by MOH)



29
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ '000)
Procurement Method
International  National              Consulting
Competitive  Competitive Consulting   Services:               Direct
Bidding      Bidding     Services      CQ      Shopping  Contracting   Other   N.B.F.     Total
A. Works /a                            -      12,915                     -           -                   -    1,800      14,715
(12,915)                                                                  (12,915)
B. Goods
1. Medical Equipment            4,024                       -          -           -                   -        -      4,024
(4,024)                                                                                (4,024)
2. Office & Other Equip.             -           -          -           -      233                     -        -        233
(233)                                     (233)
3. Furniture                         -       1,238          -          -                               -        -       1,238
(1,238)                                                                    (1,238)
4. Pharmaceuticals               2,751           -          -           -         -         104        -        -      2,855
(2,751)                                                    (104)                       (2,855)
C. Consultant Services
1. Design and Supervision           -            -          -       1,328         -           -        -        -      1,328
(1,328)                                             (1,328)
2. Technical Assistance
Firms                             -            -          -         24          -           -        -        -         24
(24)                                                (24)
Individual Consultants            -            -        184        232          -           -        -      125        541
(184)      (232)                                               (416)
D. Training                           -            -          -          -          -           -    1,862        -      1,862
(1,862)             (1,862)
E. Operating Costs /b                 -            -          -          -          -           -      105        -        105
(105)               (105)
Total                              6,776       14,153       184       1,583       233          104    1,967    1,925     26,925
(6,776)    (14,153)      (184)     (1,583)    (233)        (104)   (1,967)       -    (25,000)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by Trust Fund
\a Total estimate includes temporary facilities (financed by MOH) to be used as substitutes until the rehabilitation of the Emergency Units is completed
\b Project management costs



30
ANNEX 3: PROJECT MANAGEMENT
A.     Project Management Structure
Minister of Health      I
I    PMT Director
L- - -- - - - -I
MOH Itr
Deputy PMT Director ......I.........
Technical Coordinator
~~~~~~~~~~~I               a
r - ----      ------- J 
a
l   i    I I'''  '"        l     _I             I           .~~~~I 
Procurement                     Finance                 Administration
U.                                                   I..I 
~~~~~ .1                                                                 1  .
Procurement Officer            Finance Officer         Administrative Secretary  :
_                * * _3 *                                                K
Civil Works 
Accountant                Junior Secretary
Engineer/Architect .         _____________             I_________
Equipment/Drugs                                             Drivers (3)
Specialist    ......                                   Messenger (1)
:                    '
Hospital Directors    *
Hsi(12)          E**
Engineering Staff at 12|
Ministry Staff           Hospitals
Contracted Staff



31
B. Responsibility Matrix
A encies/Bodies Involved  |
No.   Activities
1.00  Financial Management
1.01  Nlake available tunds from oun resources         -   E  N                N
1.02  Launch Workshop                                  N   E  E                E
1.03  Document Accounting. Reporting & Auditing        N   N  E                R
Procedures
1.04  Appoint Project Auditor (extemal)                N   E  R  -          =  R
1.05  Appoint Consultants ._                                  E                R
1.06  Remit Specimen of signatures                     N   E  N                N
1.07  Request for reimbursement of own funds from the Wk'B  N  N  E            R
1.08  Prepare requests for Direct payments             N   R  E
1.09  Review claims and authonze payments                  N  N         _      E
1.10  Nlake payments w%ithin 10 days of payment            N  N                E
authorization
1.11  Monitor payments for timeliness                         E                N
1.12  Keep project accounts                                E  E
1.13  Prepare monthly Financial reports                N      E                N
1.14  Supervise FM aspects                             N   N  N                E
2.00  Planing, NI-onitonng & EBaluation
2.01  Estabhsh project preparation. implementation. technical  N  E  S      S   R
monitonng (supervision) & reporting procedures at
center and at the Directorate level
2.02  Re%'iewx PMT's procurement procedures                E  N   N      S  S
2.03  Conduct Annual audits                             R  R  S   S      E     R
2.04  Reviewz implementation progress                      E  N   N  ==      _S_ =
2.05  Revie%% Technical Documentation and Contracts        N  S   S         E
2.06  Compare Project Estimates w-ith Actual Pnces     -   N  E   S      N  S
2.07  Recommend improvements to quality of construction    N  N   N         E
2.08  Follow, up on environmental mitigation measures      S  E   S  E          N
2.09  Reviewv timeliness of implementation                 N  S   S  N      -  N
2.10  Conduct site v isits to assess progress of work and     E   S       S
qualit_
2.11  Prepare Quarterly Progress Reports for the NIOH and  N  N  E  S          R
the Wk'orld Bank
2 Financial Management consultants



32
A encies/Bodies Involved
No.   Activities
3.00  Procurement
3.01  Prepare and revise a Procurement Plan in consultation  A  E  S          S  A
with each Directorate Govemorate
3.02  Appoint Consultanti s                              N  R   E  S             R
3.03  Establish a procurement monitonnrg system at the MIOH  R  R             E  R
3.04  Prepare simplified bidding documents ror shopping     R   R  S          E  R
procedures for smaller contracts
3.05  Prepare and revise a project implementation manual    R   E  S   S  S   S  R
3.06  Prepare Standard Bidding Documents for W 'orks and     R  R  S          E  R
Goods
3.07  Prepare specific contract documents for each hospital  N  E  E          S  R
package lot.                                            I                  _
3.08  Invite bids quotes                                    N   E  E      N   N
3.09  Evaluate bids                                             E  E          S  R
__  R
3.1(1  ObtainW B Noobjection if required                    N   E
3.11  Av%ard and sign contracts                          N  N   E  E      N   S
3.1 2  Monitor progress of works under construction         S   E  S   S  S   S
3.13  Conduct physical inspection of completed hospitals        E  E          S
3.14  Coordinate procurement training to NI1OH and PMIT  N  N   E             S  N
staff
3.15  Conduct training on procurement to Iraqi staff     N  N   N  N          E
3.16  Keep records on procurement for all proJects.             E  S
Directorate "ill keep a copy of its prOJect.
3. 1 7  Follow up on complains                              N   E S              N
3.18  Conduct post re%ie%_                                                       E
Key:
R=Review/Clear E=Execute   S=Support  A=Approve   N=Notified
Legend:
MOF: Ministry of Finance; MOH: Ministry of health; MOH-PMT: Project Management Team (in MOH); DIR:
Directorate of Health at Governorate level; HOS: Hospital; AUD: Financial Auditor; PRO: Procurement
Consultant (in the case of civil works, PRO includes the private consultants hired to prepare construction documents
and provide design & supervision services); WB: World Bank (Administrator of the Trust Fund)
3 Consultants hired to prepare design, construction documents and administration of the contract and supervision of
the works during construction.



33
ANNEX 4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS AND PROCUREMENT PLAN
I.    GENERAL
1.    Project information:
Country:                         Republic of Iraq
Recipient:                       Ministry of Health
Project Name:                    Emergency Health Rehabilitation Project
Project No.:                     P091305
Grant Amount:                    US$25 million from the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund
Project Implementing Agency (PIA): Ministry of Health
2.    Bank's approval Date of the Procurement Plan: October 7, 2004
3.    Date of General Procurement Notice: November 3, 2004
4.    Period covered by this procurement plan: 18 months.
II.   GOODS AND WORKS AND NON-CONSULTING SERVICES.
1.    Prior Review Threshold: Procurement Decisions subject to Prior Review by the Bank as
stated in Appendix 1 to the Guidelines for Procurement:
Procurement Method          Prior Review Threshold         Comments
1. ICB (Goods)                 All
2. Shopping (Goods, Works)     First three purchase          See Procurement Plan
orders/contracts All >=US$100,000  for selected contracts
3. NCB (works, goods)          First three contracts regardless of  See Procurement Plan
value; and                    for selected contracts
all contracts >= US $ 250,000 per
contract for works and >= US $
100,000 per contract for goods
4. Direct Contracting/Purchase  All
2.    Reference to Project Implementation Manual
The Project Management Team (MOH-PMT) will prepare a simple Project Implementation
Manual (PIM) by December 2004. The PIM will be adapted to conform to the Master
Implementation Manual (MIM) when it is finalized. The MIM is being prepared by an
international consulting firm financed under the capacity building trust fund for Iraq, and is
planned to be finalized by December 2004.
3.    Any Other Special Procurement Arrangements
Not applicable



34
4.    Procurement Packages with Methods and Time Schedule
It is not expected that international contractors would be interested in the works contracts under
this project, especially under the current security situation in Iraq and the scattered locations of
the subprojects. Thus, no contract is expected to be procured using ICB procedures. There is no
domestic preference under the project. A detailed procurement plan is included in this annex.
III. SELECTION OF CONSULTANTS
1.    Prior Review Threshold: Selection decisions subject to Prior Review by Bank as stated
in Appendix 1 to the Guidelines Selection and Employment of Consultants:
Selection Method        Prior Review Threshold       Comments
1. Services from firms or individuals  First three contracts regardless
of value.
1. Competitive Methods (Firms)  >=US$100,000
2. Single Source (Firms)      All
3. Individual Consultants     >=US$50,000
4. Single Source (individual)  All
2.    Short list comprised entirely of national consultants
A short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per
contract, may be comprised entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.    Any Other Special Selection Arrangements
The selection of a procurement consulting firm will be based on Consultants' Qualifications
(CQs). The security conditions in Iraq may not attract international consultants to work in Iraq.
It is also expected that international consulting firms may not be interested in the preparation of
hospital rehabilitation bidding documents and construction supervision of the hospitals while the
security situation is volatile. Based on this, short lists for all consulting services for engineering
services and bidding document preparation and construction supervision of hospitals may be
composed entirely of national consulting firms. The method for selection of these consulting
firms is proposed to be CQs to speed up the implementation of the project. It is also expected
that consulting offices associated with local universities may be included in the short lists.
University-based consultants shall not have preference over private consultants.
4.    Consultancy Assignments with Selection Methods and Time Schedule
These are indicated in the attached procurement plan.



35
IV.    IMPLEMENTING AGENCY CAPACITY BUILDING ACTIVITIES WITH TIME
SCHEDULE
The agreed Capacity Building Activities are listed with time schedule.
Expected Outcome /            Estimated  Estimated  Start Date  Comments
Activity Description          Cost      Duration
(US$)
Training and support to MOH    200,000   18 months  Jan. 2005   International consulting
on: procurement, setting up a                                   firm with local Iraqi staff
procurement monitoring system,                                  in Iraq. Most workshops
filing system, bidding document                                 would be conducted
preparation, bid evaluation,                                    outside Iraq until security
preparation of RFP, proposal                                    conditions have
evaluation, reporting and spot                                 improved.
physical inspection.
Three workshops outside Iraq
will be designed as follows:
1. Document preparation, RFP
preparation, Bid/RFP invitation,
Bid/proposals opening
procedures (1 week).
2. Bid evaluation, proposals
evaluation, awarding contracts
(1 week).
3. Contract
Administration/Supervision
(1 week).
One workshop for contractors
and one for consultants in Iraq
will be planned on bid
preparation and proposals
preparation, respectively.
A pharmaceutical procurement    50,000   1 month    Jan. 2005   An individual
consultant is to be hired by the                                international consultant
MOH to conduct assessment of                                    will be hired by MOH.
the procurement of drugs and                                    He/she will be conducting
medical equipment and the                                       the assessment through
organizational structure of                                     meetings with the MOH
procurement system within the                                   staff outside Iraq. A local
MOH and KIMADIA and                                             consultant could be hired
recommend options for                                           to assist the international
improving the pharmaceutical                                   consultant in conducting
supply chain in Iraq.                                          this activity.



36
Initial Procurement Plan for Works and Goods
As Agreed with the PMT on October 7, 2004
Procurement                                       Estimated  z 03 WC B.      Bkiw   vta     Epce      Contract             Comple-
Location)             Cost              0    BBank    tid-                           Start     to
SsRefm #                                            s            | e=  (PRIOR    tion      pening    Award      D         Dteon
U)  ~      ysemDescription                                tUS c                                                           DatPROIeae Opnng Dt
__   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _        ~        ,~   2    Post)               Date
A                           B                   C        D     E       F        G         H          I         J         K
1 1. WORKS
2 1.1 Rehabilitation of Emergency Units
3   EHRP.WR.NCB.A-1.BAG.SD    Baghdad (SD)/ Al Yarmouk T.H. $ 1,932,000  1   NCB   PRIOR   23-May-05 22-Jun-05  1-Aug-05  8-Aug-05  23-May-06
4   EHRP.WR.NCB.B-1.BAG.SD    Baghdad (SD)/ Al Kindy T.H.  $ 1,369,000   1   NCB   PRIOR    8-Jun-05   8-Jul-05  15-Aug-05 22-Aug-05 22-Apr-06
5   EHRP.WR.NCB.B-2.BAG.K     Baghdad (K)/ Al Karkh G.H.  $ 1,185,000    1   NCB   PRIOR   22-Jun-05  22-Jul-05  31-Aug-05 8-Sep-05  8-May-06
6   EHRP.WR.NCB.C-1.DIY       Diyala/ Baquba G.H          $ 1,188,000    1   NCB   PRIOR    8-Jul-05  8-Aug-05  15-Sep-05 22-Sep-05 22-Apr-06
7   EHRP.WR.NCB.D-1.SD        Baghdad(SD)/ Al Imam Ali G.H.  $ 1,027,000  1  NCB   PRIOR    22-Jul-05  21-Aug-05 30-Sep-05  8-Oct-05  8-Apr-06
8   EHRP.WR.NCB.D-2.KIR       Kirkuk/ Kirkuk G.H.         $   750,000    1   NCB   PRIOR    22-Jul-05  21-Aug-05 30-Sep-05  8-Oct-05  8-Apr-06
9   EHRP.WR.NCB.D-3.MIS       Missan/ Amara G.H.          $   750,000    1   NCB   PRIOR    7-Aug-05  7-Sep-05  15-Oct-05 22-Oct-05 22-Apr-06
10   EHRP.WR.NCB.D-4.KAR       Karbala/ Al Hussein G.H.    $ 1,031,000    1   NCB   PRIOR    7-Aug-05  7-Sep-05  15-Oct-05 22-Oct-05 22-Apr-06
11   EHRP.WR.NCB.D-5.ANB       Anbar (Ramadi)/ Al Ramadi T.H. $ 1,031,000  1  NCB   PRIOR   22-Aug-05 22-Sep-05 31-Oct-05  7-Nov-05  7-May-06
12   EHRP.WR.NCB.D-6.SAL       Salah Al Din/ Samarra G.H.  $   950,000    1   NCB   PRIOR   22-Aug-05 22-Sep-05 31-Oct-05  7-Nov-05  7-May-06
13   EHRP.WR.NCB.D-7.ERB       Erbil/ Rizgari T.H.         $   750,000    1   NCB   PRIOR    8-Sep-05  8-Oct-05  15-Nov-05 22-Nov-05 22-May-06
14   EHRP.WR.NCB.D-8.SUL       Sulaymanyiah/ Jumhouri G.H.  $  950,000    1   NCB   PRIOR    8-Sep-05  8-Oct-05  15-Nov-05 22-Nov-05 22-May-06
15         Subtotal 1.1                                    $12,913,000   12
16      Total 1. for works                                 $12,913,000   12



37
. 1     Review    nta      Expected  Cnrc                  ope
Procurement          ~~~~Location/        Esiae0 By Bank                     tin       Bid-                Start     to
;            Syste                     Description            Cost      i X      |   (PRIOR I          Opening    Award      Date
Ref. #(US$) /c                                                         Pot        aeDate             Date                Date
_   _ _    __    _    _ _               B                   C         D     E      F        G          H         I      _            K
17 2. GOODS                   j _                                                                      _
18 2.1 Essential Emergency Drugs for 12 Hospitals (37 items, total quantity 1,412,267 items)
19   EHRP.EED.DC               Baghdad/ 1 Emergency Drug,  $   104,000    1    DC   PRIOR   15-Dec-04 30-Dec-04  1-Feb-05  8-Feb-05  31-May-05
total Q=427
20   EHRP.EED.ICB              Baghdad/ 36 E1 ergency Drugs, $ 2,750,000  1    iCB  PRIOR   15-Dec-04  15-Jan-05  7-Mar-05  15-Mar-05  5-Jul-05
total Q1,411,840                  _
21         Subtotal 2.1                                    $ 2,854,000    2
22 2.2 Medical Equipment for 12 Hospitals
23   EHRP.MEDEQ.ICB            20 Items, total Q=1,295 items  $ 4,024,000  8   ICB  PRIOR   15-Dec-04 31-Jan-05 23-Mar-05   1-Apr-05  22-Jul-05
24         Subtotal 2.2                                    $ 4,024,000   8
25 2.3 Office Equipment, Computers and Vehicles
26   EHRP.OFFEQUIP.SHP         Office Equipment & Computers  $  192,000  4     SH   PRIOR   15-Dec-04 22-Dec-04 28-Jan-05  5-Feb-05   7-Mar-05
27   EHRP.VEH.NCB              3 Vehicles                  $    41,000    1   NCB    Post    1-Dec-04  15-Dec-04 31-Dec-04  8-Jan-05  8-Apr-05
28         Subtotal 2.3                                    $   233,000   5
29 2.4 Furniture for 12 Hospitals
30   EHRP.FURN.NCB             Furniture                   $ 1,238,000   12   NCB   PRIOR   15-Dec-04  15-Jan-05  7-Mar-05  15-Mar-05 15-Jun-05
31         Subtotal 2.4                                    $ 1,238,000   12
32     Total for 2. GOODS                                  $ 8,349,000   27
33       GRAND TOTAL                                       $21,262,000   39
Notes: All cost figures are totals induding contingencies



38
Initial Procurement Plan for Consultant's Services
As Agreed with the PMT on October 7, 2004
Procure-                                                           Review  Adverti-  Epce
ment  Locaion/           Estmated   Selc- by Bak sement       Proposal   Contract    St t    Comple-
|l           ;System              Description of Assignment    Cost      tion   PriorI  for EOI            n    Awa      Dat       tion
ARBf-                                          (US$)     6-hd    Post     Date       Date      Date                Dt
A__     _  _    _      _    _    _  _    _    _       C         D       E    I   F         G          H         I         J
1 3. CONSULTANTS' SERVICES                                j                      =        =                              =
2 3.1 Consultants for Project Management (PMT Team) & Auditing
3           NSP                Procurement Training & Support $  232,000  CQS  PRIOR   30-Oct-04  21-Dec-04  28-Jan-05  1-Feb-05  1-Feb-06
EHRP.CON.CQS.PROC   (International Firm)_____
4   EHRP.CON.IC.PMT            5 PMT Consultants (18 month  $  127,000   IC    PRIOR   20-Oct-04  4-Nov-04  8-Dec-04 15-Dec-04 15-Jun-06
_ __________________________  ~consultancies)
5   EHRP.CON.IC.DRUGS          International Consultant to assist $  56,000  IC  PRIOR  30-Oct-04  6-Dec-04  8-Jan-05  13-Jan-05 12-Jun-05
EHRP.CON.IC.DRUGS    In drug supply chain
6   ESCRP.CQS.AUDIT            Extemal Audit (Local Firm)  $   24,000   COS    PRiOR   1-Jan-04  16-Jan-04  7-Feb-04  15-Feb-04 30-Jun-06
7         Subtotal for 3.1                                 $  439,000
8 3.2 Design & Supervision Services for the 12 Emergency Units
9   EHRP.CON.CQS.A- 1.BAG.SD   Baghdad/SD Al Yarmouk T.H.  $   199,000  COS    PRIOR   1-Nov-04  30-Nov-04  31-Dec-04  1-Jan-05  31-May-06
10   EHRP.CON.CQS.B-1.BAG.SD    Baghdad (SD)/ Al Kindy T.H.  $  141,000  COS    PRIOR   1-Nov-04  15-Dec-04  15-Jan-O5 16-Jan-05 30-Apr-06
11   EHRP.CON.CQS.B-2.BAG.K     Baghdad (Karkh)/ Al Karkh G. H. $  122,000  CQS  PRIOR  1 -Nov-04  31 -Dec-04  31-Jan-05  1 -Feb-05  15-May-06
12   EHRP.CON.CQS.C-1.DIY       Diyala/ Baquba G.H          $  122,000   CQS    PRIOR   1 -Nov-04  15-Jan-05  15-Feb-05 16-Feb-O5 30-Apr-06
13   EHRP.CON.CQS.D-1.BAG.SD    Baghdad (SD)/ Al Imam All G.H. $  106,000  CQS  PRIOR   1-Nov-04  31-Jan-05  28-Feb-05  1-Mar-05  15-Apr-06
14   EHRP.CON.CQS.D-2.KIR       Kirkuk/ Kirkuk G.H.         $   77,000   CQS     Post   1-Nov-04  31 -Jan-05  28-Feb-05  1 -Mar-05  15-Apr-06
15   EHRP.CON.CQS.D-3.MIS       Missant Amara G.H.          $   77,000   COS     Post   1-Nov-04  15-Feb-05  15-Mar-05 16-Mar-05 30-Apr-06
16  EHRP.CON.CQS.D-4.KAR        Karbala/ Al Hussein G.H.    $  106,000   CQS    PRIOR   1-Nov-04  15-Feb-O5  15-Mar-05 16-Mar-05 30-Apr-06
17   EHRP.CON.CQS.D-5.ANB       Anbar (Ramadi) Al Ramadi T.H. $  106,000  COS   PRIOR   1-Nov-04  28-Feb-05  31-Mar-05  I -Apr-O5  15-May-06
18   EHRP.CON.CQS.D-6.SAL       Salah Al Din/ Samarra G.H.  $   98,000   CQS     Post   1-Nov-04  28-Feb-05  31-Mar-05  1-Apr-O5  15-May-06
19   EHRP.CON.CQS.D-7.ERB       Erbil/ Rizgari T.H.         $   77,000   CQS     Post   1-Nov-04  15-Mar-06  15-Apr-05 1 6-Apr-05 31-May-06
20   EHRP.CON.CQS.D-4.SUL       Sulaymanyiah/ Juimhouri G.H.  $  98,000  CQS     Post   1-Nov-04  15-Mar-05  15-Apr-05 16-Apr-05 31-May-06
21          Subtotal 3.2                                    $ 1,329,000
22        GRAND TOTAL               _                       $ 1,768,000                                                           _     _
Notes: All cost figures are totals including contingencies



39
ANNEX 5: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
1. The project financial resources will be managed within the framework of the Iraqi public
financial management system. The grant funds will be made available to the MOH, which,
assisted by the MOH-PMT, will enter into contractual agreements with construction companies
and contractors, consultants, and vendors for the rehabilitation and construction activities
financed under the project.
2. Due to the security risk, the project financial management assessment was carried out in
Amman by interviewing Iraqi officials from MOH, and reviewing sample of documents used in
the financial management of the ministry. These interviews concentrated on: (i) identifying the
applicable procedures to introduce the grant proceeds as a supplement to the MOH budgets (ii)
assessing the current financial management practices at the MOH in order to identify the risks
associated with the control environment and the accounting, reporting and auditing procedures in
place; and (iii) proposing actions to reduce and manage such risks. Despite the limited
knowledge of the Recipient's systems and processes, this assessment showed that the systems in
place at MOH are based on principles and procedures defined by the legal framework and
operational decrees applicable to the public sector. The current control environment and
accounting systems would require strengthening and close monitoring in order to allow proper
use of funds and timely generation of monitoring reports4.
I. Financial Management Risk Assessment
3.    The financial management risk associated with this operation is considered high. Critical
risk factors are: (i) ongoing insecurity, which prevents on-site Bank supervision and assessments,
including financial management assessments; (ii) the Bank's limited knowledge of Iraq's public
financial management systems, controls, and procedures; (iii) the limited knowledge on the part
of Iraqi authorities of Bank policies and guidelines; (iv) the possibility of MMPW not making
available on a timely basis financial resources to honor payments below the value of US$10,000;
(v) difficult communication and flow of information between worksites and the PMT, which
could delay payments; (vi) inefficiencies in Iraq's banking system that delay payments and
transfer of funds to contractors, suppliers, or MMPW; and (vii) variation order requests that may
exceed price contingencies and difficulties may be encountered in verifying justification for
variation orders. Although the project design mitigates to the extent possible these risks, the
project will require close monitoring and supervision during implementation. A detailed risk
assessment may be found in Section VII.
II. Risk Mitigation Measures
4.    The overall high risk will be partially mitigated by putting in place additional controls
and appropriate procedures.
5.    The control risks will be mitigated as follows: (i) the MOH-PMT will verify and
authorize payments under the project; and verify justifications for variation orders (ii) the MOH-
4A special-purpose audit conducted by an international firm of selected Iraqi ministries had identified major
irregular financial transactions and significant control breaches.



40
PMT will assign competent financial staff from the MOH who will be supported, as needed, by
expert financial management consultants; (iii) the MOH will identify the qualified staff from the
MOH finance department, including the internal auditor, who will track the project activities;
(iv) the PMT will use a full accounting process for the project, through a stand-alone simplified
accounting and reporting system (in addition to the MOH Accounting Department); (v) all
invoices/claims above US$10,000 will be paid through direct payments, while payments made
by MOH will be reimbursed by the Bank upon submission of appropriate documents to the
Bank; (vi) the fiduciary Monitoring Agent will review project expenditures and withdrawal
applications; and (vii) the project financial statements will be audited by an international audit
firm acceptable to the Bank, in addition to the regular audit conducted by the Government
Supreme Audit Institution. Application of these mitigation measures will help ensure that the
MOH team will be able to monitor the project transactions according to Bank requirements and
grant agreement provisions.
6.    The accounting and reporting risks will be managed by putting in place a simple parallel
accounting system capable of recording all project expenditures and monitoring the project
commitments at any point during the implementation period, as well as generating project
reporting, including the Bank-required Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs). The project
accounting system will be installed after the project is declared effective, as the grant funds will
finance this system.
7.    All the above activities and procedures will be documented in a separate chapter of the
Project Implementation Manual which will be in line with the Master Implementation Manual.
III.  Financial Management Arrangements
8.    Accounting System. MOH currently uses a manual accounting system. To avoid the risk
of not generating timely reports for project management and monitoring purposes, parallel
arrangements will be implemented to overcome this shortcoming. The project accounting and
reporting activities will be undertaken by the PMT but in conjunction with MOH control
procedures and applicable laws. A simple computerized spreadsheet accounting system will be
used to track the grant accounts and generate reports including the Financial Monitoring reports
(FMRs). The PMT staff will include a financial officer and an accountant assisted by a financial
management consultant.
9.    Flow of Information. As per current control regulations, all invoices or work orders will
be signed and approved by the planning departments of individual governorates and will be
remitted to MOH-PMT for payment under cover letter signed by the MOH directorate at the
governorate level. Contracting and payment processes will be centralized at the PMT level. The
PMT will verify all claims and will maintain up-to-date invoice register and general ledger to
record all payments incurred. The MOH internal auditor designated to the project by the Minister
will perform ex-ante checking to all financial transactions.
10.   Financial Management Procedures. The project financial management procedures and
the parallel accounting system will be described in details in a chapter of the project
implementation Manual which will be in line with the Master Implementation Manual under
preparation by the Bank. The PMT assisted by an external consultant will prepare this manual.



41
IV.   Project Reports
11.   Project reports should be remitted to the Bank following the agreed format and
frequency. The proposed format of the reports is in the project files and was agreed upon with
the MOH representatives during negotiations.
12.   Quarterly Reports. The MOH will generate Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) and
submit them to the Bank as part of the project progress report, or separately, within 45 days from
the end of the quarter. These FMRs include two sections:
* Financial Reports: to include a cash flow statement, beginning and ending project cash
balances and an expenditure report by activity or contract comparing actual and planned
expenditures. Also, a narrative report explaining major variances when compared to plan
and the proposed corrective actions should be included as an annex to the financial
reports.
* Contracts Reports: to include information on the major rehabilitation and construction
contracts, showing contract financial status against plan, including information on all
authorized contract variations.
13.   Annual Reports. Audited Project Financial Statements that will be submitted to the
Bank, no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year, include:
a. Statement of sources and utilization of funds, indicating funds received and expenditures.
b. Appropriate schedules classifying project activities, showing cumulative balances.
c. Statement of payments made using statements of expenditures procedures, if allowed
later by the Bank, as defined in the legal agreement.
V.    Auditing Arrangements
14.   An extemal independent auditor with international experience will be engaged to perform
the project audit and issue an independent opinion on the project financial statements. The
external audit report will encompass all of the project's activities and will be presented in
accordance with internationally accepted auditing standards. MOH will remit a project audit
report to the Bank not later than four months after the end of the government fiscal year and
following the closing date of the Grant. The auditor selection process will be launched directly
after the grant agreement is signed. In addition to the audit reports, the auditor will prepare a
"management letter" identifying any observations, comments, and deficiencies in the system and
controls that the auditor considers pertinent, and will provide recommendations for their
improvements. The audit will cover the expenditures made through direct payments as well as
expenditures reimbursed to the MOH, in terms of their substantiation and their eligibility and
compliance with the grant agreement. An escrow account will be used to pay the auditor after the
project closing date.
VI.   Disbursement Arrangements
15.   The Bank's strategy in Iraq is to implement projects though the Iraqi ministries (rather
than stand alone PIUs), working together to strengthen the ministries' controls, while at the same



42
time putting in place other measures to provide assurance such as independent monitoring
agents, technical support and supervision arrangements. As a further compensating control,
disbursements will be made primarily through direct payments by the Bank to the contractors,
consultants and vendors. Direct payment applications will be prepared by the MOH-PMT and
submitted to the Bank through the MOH. Authorized signatories, names and corresponding
specimens of their signatures will also be submitted to the Bank.
16.   The project management component costs and payments below the threshold of
US$10,000 will be honored through payments made available by the recipient of the grant from
its own resources. These payments made from the recipient's own resources will be reimbursed,
on a periodic basis, by the Bank to the MOH upon presentation of a proof of payment and a
signed withdrawal application. The MOH-PMT and the main financial counterparts from MOH
will receive intensive training in Bank disbursement procedures.
17.   Allocation of Grant Proceeds. The proceeds of the Grant will be disbursed in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines. The proposed Project has been designed to be
implemented over a 24-month period. The disbursement arrangements are based on the Bank's
appraisal of the financial management capability of the implementing ministry, as well as the
experience and lessons learned from current and previous projects in the region. Grant funds are
expected to be fully disbursed by the Project Closing Date of December 31, 2006. The
disbursement categories and amounts and percentages to be financed under each category are
presented in Table A.
Table A: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount in US$ Thousand  Financing Percentage
1. Civil Works                              11,600 100%
2. Goods                                     7,500 100%
3. Consultant Services                       1,600 100%
4. Training                                  1,700 100%
5. Incremental Operating                      100 100%
Costs
6. Unallocated                               2,500
TOTAL                                       25,000
18.   Use of Statements of Expenditure. Initially, supporting documentation will be provided
to the Bank for all requests to disburse funds under the Grant. The Bank has the option to allow
expenditures under US$10,000 to be made by means of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). If
SOEs are allowed, the supporting documentation will be maintained at the MOH and made
available for review by the project auditors and the Bank representatives upon request; any
documentation relating to SOEs will be retained for up to one year from the date the Bank
receives the second grant audit report.



43
VII. Financial Management Risk Assessment
19.    The following two tables summarize the detailed financial management and operational
risk assessment for the project.
Financial Management identified risks       Risk     Risk Mitigation Measures
Rating_
The Bank gained some knowledge on Iraqi Public
Financial Management (PFM) system by
appointing a consulting firm to assess the financial
management capacity of several Iraqi ministries.
Limited knowledge of financial management     H      Bank staff also conducted their own interviews
capacity in the MOHI.                                with Iraqi officials in Amman and reviewed PFM
system documentation. Further knowledge was
gained from an audit report issued by an
international audit firm
The PMT will be staffed with financial officers,
including a qualified financial manager, a financial
Limited capacity to manage financial               officer, and a finance assistant. The financial
Lianagemient capacirey t of the Project.    H      manager will manage disbursements from the
proceeds of the grants, managed and supervise
project accounts, retain financial records, and
prepare project reports.
Lack of familiarity with Bank guidelines and         Training will be provided to MOH and MOH-
regulations in MOH.                                  PMT staff on Bank policies and guidelines.
All major payments will be made through direct
payment. Inefficiencies in the banking and
Difficulties in making payments to suppliers         payment system in Iraq remain a major risk factor
Diffcutides andoute Irak   possiblentisks to sfor such payments. The Bank uses an international
inside and outside Iraq; possible rsks        H      commercial bank for US$ payment in Iraq. Also
associated with Iraq banking sector.                 the Bank discussed with international commercial
banks their abilities to transfer funds into Iraqi
Banks
Staffing: Lack of financial management skills  H     The financial management team will be assisted by
in MOH-PMT.                                          a financial management consultant.
The Financial Operations chapter of the Project
Accounting policies and procedures: may not          Implementation Manual will define financial
meet Bank management and reporting            M      policies and procedures specific to the project. The
requirements.                                        financial management policies of the MOH will
apply to the project
The MOH not being able to provide funds from         The minister's commitment to provide the funds
its own resources to cover expenditures below  H     was provided during negotiations.
US$10,000.waprvdddrnneoitns
The Minister will assign one internal auditor to
Internal audit: Existing arrangements for            focus on the project transactions and will report to
intemal audit are not adequate and officials  M      the Minister. This auditor will be introduced to the
may not be famniliar with project requirements.      project and receive training on Bank guidelines in
the PMT Training Workshop.
External audit: Unknown capacity of auditing         Extemal audit will be carried out by an
firms in Iraq. There was no capacity assessment  H   independent auditor with international experience
for the audit profession in Iraq to determine        under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank..
capability to perform audits as per ISA.
Reporting and Monitoring: Current MOH              A "ring-fenced" project accounting system,
Reporting and Monitoring: Current MOH         H      initially based on spreadsheet applications, will
systems do not generate required reports.            generate the data for the FMRs.



44
Information systems: Not functioning reliably  H      Simple spreadsheet-based reporting format has
in MOH                                               been agreed upon.
Difficulty in verifying justification for variation  PMT will be responsible for verifying variation
orders and possibility of variation orders           orders. The fiduciary monitoring agent will assist,
exceeding price contingencies.                       to the extent feasible. Price contingencies have
H       been calculated on the basis of recent prices. Given
the volatility of the market, however, should price
contingencies be insufficient to cover the variation
orders, scope of work will be scaled back.
Overall Risk                                  H
Operational Risk                                  Risk mitigating measures
Identifying the hospitals in which the emergency rooms  Selection criteria were identified
will be rehabilitated.
The effects of the rehabilitation process on the daily  The emergency rooms will be moved to temporary
ongoing operation in hospitals especially in conflict  substitute locations within the hospitals
areas.
Proper identification of the required equipment to be  The MOH staff prepared a list of the priority
used in the rehabilitated emergency rooms         equipment and discussed with the WB staff
Proper usage/maintenance plans for the equipment to  The suppliers will provide adequate training for the
ensure functionality and effectiveness.           items procured.
Ability to determine the condition of the received items.  The Technical Committee will assign the proper staff
to inspect items received.
Identifying the essential drugs.                  MOH staff will determine the needed items from the
classified list developed intemally.
Proper storage and distribution of the drugs.     MOH has provided assurance that the drugs will be
properly stored and distributed according to the agreed
Project implementation arrangements.
The selection process of MOH staff to attend training  MOH and the selected hospitals will nominate the staff
programs.                                        for training.
VIII. Bank Financial Management Supervision
20.    The first supervision mission after effectiveness will take the form of a project launch
workshop where further training on Bank rules, regulations and guidelines will be provided. A
high level of supervision will be required initially in order to ensure that the MOH-PMT and the
qualified staff from the MOH finance department are well-trained in the use of Bank guidelines
and procedures. Until security conditions make travel to Iraq possible for Bank staff, the Bank
will employ a Monitoring Agent, an independent firm that will operate in Iraq and support the
Bank in carrying out its financial management supervision function.



45
ANNEX 6: Results-Based Supervision Plan
(Expected Project Outputs)
Rehabilitation of 12 Emergency Units in 9 Governorates
Target Dates              Estimated Values
Pckg    Activity Description                    (dd/mmm/yy)               (US$x.xx million)
Plan         Actual       Plan          Actual
A-1    Al Yarmouk T.H. (Baghdad/Sader City)
(a)            Works Contract Awarded           01-Aug-05                 1.93
(b)            Emergency Unit Rehabilitated     23-May-06   _
B-1    Al Kindy T.H (Baghdad/Sader City)
(a)            Works Contract Awarded           15-Aug-05                 1.37
(b)            Emergency Unit Rehabilitated     22-Apr-06   _
B-2.   Al Karkh G.H (Baghdad/Karkh)
(a)            Works Contract Awarded           31 -Aug-05                1.18
(b)            Emergency Unit Rehabilitated     08-May-06   _
C-i    Baquba G.H. (Diyala)
(a)            Works Contract Awarded           15-Sep-05                 1.19
(b)            Emergency Unit Rehabilitated     22-Apr-06   _
D-1.   Al Imam Ali G.H. (Baghdad/Sadir)
(a)            Works Contract Awarded           30-Sep-05                 1.03
(b)            Emergency Unit Rehabilitated     08-Apr-06   _
D-2.   Kirkuk G.H. (Kirkuk)
(a)            Works Contract Awarded           30-Sep-05                 0.75
(b)            Emergency Unit Rehabilitated     08-Apr-06   _
D-3.   Amara G.H. (Missan)
(a)            Works Contract Awarded           15-Oct-05                 0.75
(b)            Emergency Unit Rehabilitated     22-Apr-06                              _
D-4.   AXHussein G.H. (Karbala)_
(a)            Works Contract Awarded           15-Oct-05                 1.03
(b)            Emergency Unit Rehabilitated     22-Apr-06
D-5.   ARamadi G.H. (Anbar) 
(a)            Works Contract Awarded           31-Oct-05                 1.03
(b)            Emergency Unit Rehabilitated     07-May-06   _
D-6.   Samarra G.H. (Salah El Din)
(a)            Works Contract Awarded           31-Oct-05                 0.95
(b)            Hospital Rehabilitated           07-May-06    _
D-7.   Rizgari G.H. (Erbil)
(a)            Works Contract Awarded           15-Nov-05                 0.75
(b)            Emergency Unit Rehabilitated     22-May-06   _
D-8.   Jumhouri G.H. (Sulaimanyiah)
(a)            Works Contract Awarded           15-Nov-05                 0.95
(b)            Emergency Unit Rehabilitated     22-May-06



46
ANNEX 7: ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SCREENING AND ASSESSMENT
FRAMEWORK
Introduction. The Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework (ESSAF)
will provide the general policies, guidelines, codes of practice and procedures to be integrated
into the implementation the project (see Appendix A).
Potential Adverse Impact. The activities supported by the project comprise rehabilitation and
expansion of hospital facilities. Potential adverse environmental impacts (summarized below) are
restricted in scope and severity:
* Dust and noise due to demolition and construction;
* Dumping of demolition and construction wastes and accidental spillage of machine oil,
lubricants, etc;
* Risk for inadequate use of hazardous anti termite chemicals during foundation works;
* Risk for inadequate handling of hazardous wastewater, waste gases and spillages of hazardous
material during operation of the hospitals; and
* Risk from inadequate handling of medical waste.
Handling of Medical and Non-medical Wastes. The inadequate handling and disposal of
medical wastes may lead to transmission of HIV, hepatitis, meningitis, and other infectious
diseases through injuries caused by syringe needles contaminated by human blood. The groups
most at risk are medical care workers, waste mandgement operators, and scavengers. The
management of medical wastes requires diligence and care from a chain of people, starting with
medical care staff, continuing through collection workers, and finishing with disposal operators.
It would be the responsibility of MOH to provide training courses for all staff involved in the
management of medical wastes to make them aware of hazards, especially from infected sharps,
as well as to educate patients and visitors on proper hygiene and cleanliness with respect to
waste. Public awareness campaigns should be held at the community level. The training of
personnel should not solely explain routine procedures, but should also cover emergency
procedures, such as what action should be taken as a result of a spillage of particular types of
waste, or in the case of an injury involving a needle. It would also be the responsibility of MOH
to develop and monitor supplies and consumer policies which aim to minimize the level of waste
generated as a result of the provision of services.
In order to ensure the safe and efficient handling and disposal of waste generated in the hospitals
it will be necessary to develop operational policies. These should be based upon the central
MOH principle of strict segregation between medical (clinical waste and sharps) and domestic
waste and appropriate disposal of cytotoxic waste.
In order to be compliant with emerging guidelines and promote an environmentally-conscious
approach to waste management, operational policies should also be based on the segregation of
domestic waste into organic, non-organic and recyclable categories.
Hospital Waste Management Plans. The establishment of Hospital Waste Management Plans is
not included in the proposed project for rehabilitation of Emergency Unit Buildings, but the issue
should be considered in future projects for rehabilitation and upgrading of hospitals in Iraq.
Factors that govern the hospital waste management strategies are the legislative and regulatory
framework, and the waste treatment and disposal costs.



47
The medical waste should be collected by specialist contractors for treatment at central plants in
each district, located at the hospital or elsewhere in the municipality. Because landfill operations
may cause a loss of containment integrity and the dispersal of infectious waste, it is
recommended that all infectious waste shall be treated prior to disposal. The following standards
for waste management are recommended:
* Establishing standard operating procedures for each process used for treating infectious waste;
* Monitoring of all treatment processes in order to ensure efficient and effective treatment; and
* Using biological indicators to monitor treatment (other indicators may be used provided that
their effectiveness has been successively demonstrated).
Recommended techniques for treatment of infectious waste are steam sterilization, incineration,
microwave or ultraviolet heating systems, ionizing radiation or chemical treatment. The choice
of technique depends on which category of infectious waste is being treated. Infectious waste
that has been efficiently treated is no longer hazardous, and may therefore be mixed with and
disposed of as ordinary solid waste, provided the waste does not pose other hazards that are
subject to national regulations.
A Hospital Waste Management Plan should be based on the evaluation and implementation of
the following strategic actions:
*  Definition of waste management responsibilities and establishment bf a waste management
organization for the hospitals concerned, including provisions for decontamination services
to other enterprises (hospitals, clinics and institutions);
*  Provision of information, instruction and training of all staff involved in the waste
management;
*  Development of evaluation procedures for monitoring and quality assurance of the waste
management;
*  Identification and definition of categories of hospital waste;
*  Characterization of hospital waste streams and estimate on quantities of hospital waste
arisings (including waste streams for decontamination services to other hospitals, clinics and
institutions);
*  Development of a system for segregation of waste;
*  Organization of dedicated facilities, services and transports on site for the implementation of
segregation of hospital waste;
*  Organization of the waste marshalling area including the adoption of an appropriate
disinfection system for clinical waste (e.g., incinerator, microwave station);
*  Organization of transport of waste off site and final disposal of hospital waste;
*  Special treatment of hazardous waste water, exhaust air and waste gases;
*  Development of procedures for handling accidents, incidents and spillages; and
*  Assessment of the environmental impact and impact on public health.
The organization of transport of waste off-site and the final disposal of clinical waste are two of
the most critical environmental aspects to be included in the Hospital Waste Management Plan.



48
ANNEX 7A: CODES OF PRACTICE FOR PREVENTION AND MITIGATION OF
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
Potential Impacts       I            Prevention and Mitigation Measures
:Wmtar SUpply
*      Rtepairand rebabilitationof egpipedwater schemes..'
-*    - New or e       piped atorlschemes to scive fewer thal,10 OOe.t1ods...
*: . -  nllsli.Eation-or.*habiitation oftubeweLls or dug sveIIs.
Disease caused by poor water
quality:
* contamination by seepage from      . Prioritize leak detection and repair of pipe networks.
latrines, municipal waste or
agricultural areas.           * Chemical and bacteriological testing of water quality from
. high mineral concentrations.     adjacent comparable sources prior to installation of new
sources.
w creation of stagnant pools of    Redesign to prevent contamination if adjacent comparable
sources are found to be contaminated.
* Subsequent monitoring of installed or rehabilitated sources.
* Appropriate location, apron and drainage around tubewells and
dug wells to prevent formation of stagnant pools.
* Provision of cover and hand-pump to prevent contamination of
dug wells.
* Where pit latrines are used they should be located more than
1Om from any water source. The base should be sealed and
separated by at least 2m of sand or loamy soil from the
groundwater table.
* Where nightsoil latrines or septic tanks are built they should be
sealed. Outflows should drain either to a soak away located at
least 1 Om from any water source or be connected to a working
drain.



49
Potential Impacts                    Prevention and Mitigation Measures
Social Risks:
* Lack of clear division of rights/  * Ensure sufficient community participation and organization for
responsibilities may result in   effective planning and management of infrastructure.
maintenance problems of
wells/pumps.                  * Include downstream water users (e.g. water supply, irrigation,
livestock watering) in planning of water storage reservoirs.
* Lack of clear definition of user      ..                   ..
.    fr welsnd p     s       * Identify proper mechanism of rights and responsibilities over
rights  ellsion of       may     well/pump/reservoir usage through participatory village focus
create exclusion of vulnerable
groups.                          groups.
* Access to water may be captured  * Ensure that local accessible materials are used when
by interest groups.              developing/rehabilitating wells in order to provide
by iteooresigneuipm   lmaintenance.
m Use of foreign equipment/      * For each pump/welllreservoir/ borehole establish clear
materials may hinder             guidelines of user rights through participatory focus groups;
maintenance of pumps/wells.      Ensure that access to water pumps/reservoirs is equitable to
* Potential impacts to cultural    prevent capture by interest groups.
property.                     * Use archaeological chance find procedures and coordinate with
appropriate agencies.
Contamination of water supplies:
.ct naoof groundwater   * Where pit latrines are used they should be located more than
bcntamunationseep              1 Om from any water source. The base should be sealed and
because of seepage.              separated vertically by not less than 2m of sand or loamy soil
* contamination of surface waters  from the groundwater table.
due to flooding or over-flowing.  * Where nightsoil latrines or septic tanks are built they should be
sealed. Outflows should drain either to a soak away located at
least I Om from any water source or be connected to a working
drain.
* Maintenance training to be delivered along with new latrines.
Disease caused by poor handling  * Training and health education to be provided to nightsoil
practices of nightsoil.            handlers where affected by interventions.
* Protective clothing and appropriate containers for nightsoil
transportation to be provided.



50
Potential Impacts                    Prevention and Mitigation Measures
Disease caused by inadequate     * Nightsoil should be handled using protective clothing to
excreta disposal or inappropriate  prevent any contamination of workers skin or clothes.
use of latrines.                 * Where nightsoil is collected for agricultural use it should be
stored for a sufficient period to destroy pathogens through
composting. At the minimum it should be stored in direct
sunlight and turned regularly for a period of at least 6 weeks.
* Septic tanks should not be constructed nor septic waste
collected unless primary and secondary treatment and safe
disposal is available.
* Health and hygiene education to be provided for all users of
latrines.
* Awareness campaign to maintain sanitary conditions.
Potential health and environmental  * Secondary treatment of wastewater and chlorination of final
risks associated with use of treated  effluent followed by aeration prior to restricted wastewater
wastewater effluent for irrigation:  reuse; initial monitoring of irrigation water quality in irrigation
channels in addition to effluent monitoring at treatment plant
*   Socio-Economic Risk           outfall.
*  Permanent loss of productive  * Purchase of replacement land.
land
*  Reduction in local property  * Monetary compensation.
values                      * Reconsideration of rate structures.
*  Ability to pay of poorer
segments of population.
-  ;'-Solid Wste
*.     New :reorbtktt oftnser stations.      r'
*   * Solid wastb xilddion.  -__
Disease caused by inadequate
collection and disposal, including
health risks from:
* insects, rats.                * Sufficient frequency of collection from transfer stations.
* burning of waste.
* industrial/medical waste.     * Containment of waste during collection and transfer.
* Promote separation at source to reduce spreading by rag-pickers
* Odors during operation.          duning recycling.
* Minimize burning.
* Separate collection and disposal system for medical or
hazardous wastes.
* Assess requirement for additional investment in final disposal
site.
* Provide daily soil covering.



51
Potential Impacts                    Preventioiiand Mitigation Measures
Contamination of water supplies:  * Site transfer stations should have sealed base and be located at
least 1 5m away from water sources with the base separated
*   lateral seepage into surface   vertically by not less than 2m of sand or loamy soil from the
waters.                          groundwater table.
*   seepage of contaminants into  * Assess requirement for additional investment in final disposal
aquifers.                        site to protect water sources.
*   contamination from           * Monitoring of site to prevent illegal dumping.
clandestine dumping.
. , >~~V , !-' ''.1r                                                   ............w 'a  ..  ..v .
*  Rehabi;litatE of&<Evl   orp Plblk, buil4  -   ,' !
hijury and death from            * Apply low-cost seismic structural designs.
earthquake.    by_inadequate
Disease caused by inadequate     * Ensure designs include adequate sanitary latrines and access to
provision of water and              safe water.
sanitation.
Damage to historical buildings.
* Ensure actions involving historical buildings are
reviewed/designed by qualified specialists.
*~~~~ .-                                                      . '{3Kb*i .,e0>1 
RehabIiWflbici                    '                         ...d^<<0|t 
Environmental Impacts:
* Improper disposal of wastes.   * Ensure inclusion of adequate sanitation facilities and
* Improper disposal of medical     maintenance.
wastes.                       * Ensure planning, design and maintenance of infrastructure is
. Sanitation problems.             appropriate to local needs, traditions, culture and desires.
. Some construction related      * Proper disposal of all solid wastes, containers, infectious
problems but usually minor in    wastes.
nature.                       * Public health awareness.
* Medical waste disposal.        * Priority given to rehabilitation of toilets in rehabilitation of
* Storage of hazardous materials.  /clinics.
* Undertake awareness activities to reduce risk of transmission of
* Spread of disease from incoming  diseases.
laborers.



52
Potential Impacts                   Prevention and Mitigation Measures
Social Impacts:
* The vulnerable groups (women,  * Before the start of each infrastructure project, develop
poor children, migrants,        comprehensive organizational and maintenance plan,
pastoralists and the poor) may  commitment from local government and public to maintain
not benefit from infrastructure  school supplies, medical supplies, etc.
construction and rehabilitation.
* health posts may become
abandoned due to the lack of
commitment.
* Building infrastructure system
alone without needs assessment
may not benefit the community.
* Infrastructure investments may
be misappropriated by
governments.



53
ANNEX 7B: SAFEGUARDS PROCEDURES FOR INCLUSION IN THE TECHNICAL
SPECIFICATIONS OF CONTRACTS
I.    General
1.   The Contractor and his employees shall adhere to the mitigation measures set down and
take all other measures required by the Engineer to prevent harm, and to minimize the impact of
his operations on the environment.
2.     The Contractor shall not be permitted to unnecessarily strip clear the right of way. The
Contractor shall only clear the minimum width for construction and diversion roads should not
be constructed alongside the existing road.
3.    Remedial actions which cannot be effectively carried out during construction should be
carried out on completion of each Section of the road (earthworks, pavement and drainage) and
before issuance of the Taking Over Certificate:
(a) these sections should be landscaped and any necessary remedial works should be
undertaken without delay, including grassing and reforestation;
(b) water courses should be cleared of debris and drains and culverts checked for clear
flow paths; and
(c) borrow pits should be dressed as fish ponds, or drained and made safe, as agreed with
the land owner.
4.    The Contractor shall limit construction works to between 6 am and 7 pm if it is to be
carried out in or near residential areas.
5.    The Contractor shall avoid the use of heavy or noisy equipment in specified areas at
night, or in sensitive areas such as near a hospital.
6.    To prevent dust pollution during dry periods, the Contractor shall carry out regular
watering of earth and gravel haul roads and shall cover material haulage trucks with tarpaulins to
prevent spillage.
II.   Transport
7.    The Contractor shall use selected routes to the project site, as agreed with the Engineer,
and appropriately sized vehicles suitable to the class of road, and shall restrict loads to prevent
damage to roads and bridges used for transportation purposes. The Contractor shall be held
responsible for any damage caused to the roads and bridges due to the transportation of excessive
loads, and shall be required to repair such damage to the approval of the Engineer.
8.    The Contractor shall not use any vehicles, either on or off road with grossly excessive,
exhaust or noise emissions. In any built up areas, noise mufflers shall be installed and maintained
in good condition on all motorized equipment under the control of the Contractor.



54
9.    Adequate traffic control measures shall be maintained by the Contractor throughout the
duration of the Contract and such measures shall be subject to prior approval of the Engineer.
III.  Workforce
10.   The Contractor should whenever possible locally recruit the majority of the workforce
and shall provide appropriate training as necessary.
11.   The Contractor shall install and maintain a temporary septic tank system for any
residential labor camp and without causing pollution of nearby watercourses.
12.   The Contractor shall establish a method and system for storing and disposing of all solid
wastes generated by the labor camp and/or base camp.
13.   The Contractor shall not allow the use of fuelwood for cooking or heating in any labor
camp or base camp and provide alternate facilities using other fuels.
14.   The Contractor shall ensure that site offices, depots, asphalt plants and workshops are
located in appropriate areas as approved by the Engineer and not within 500 meters of existing
residential settlements and not within 1,000 meters for asphalt plants.
15.   The Contractor shall ensure that site offices, depots and particularly storage areas for
diesel fuel and bitumen and asphalt plants are not located within 500 meters of watercourses, and
are operated so that no pollutants enter watercourses, either overland or through groundwater
seepage, especially during periods of rain. This will require lubricants to be recycled and a ditch
to be constructed around the area with an approved settling pond/oil trap at the outlet.
16.   The contractor shall not use fuelwood as a means of heating during the processing or
preparation of any materials forming part of the Works.
IV.   Quarries and Borrow Pits
17.   Operation of a new borrow area, on land, in a river, or in an existing area, shall be subject
to prior approval of the Engineer, and the operation shall cease if so instructed by the Engineer.
Borrow pits shall be prohibited where they might interfere with the natural or designed drainage
patterns. River locations shall be prohibited if they might undermine or damage the river banks,
or carry too much fine material downstream.
18.   The Contractor shall ensure that all borrow pits used are left in a trim and tidy condition
with stable side slopes, and are drained ensuring that no stagnant water bodies are created which
could breed mosquitoes.
19.   Rock or gravel taken from a river shall be far enough removed to limit the depth of
material removed to one-tenth of the width of the river at any one location, and not to disrupt the
river flow, or damage or undernine the river banks.



55
20.   The location of crushing plants shall be subject to the approval of the Engineer, and not
be close to environmentally sensitive areas or to existing residential settlements, and shall be
operated with approved fitted dust control devices.
V.    Earthworks
21.   Earthworks shall be properly controlled, especially during the rainy season.
22.   The Contractor shall maintain stable cut and fill slopes at all times and cause the least
possible disturbance to areas outside the prescribed limits of the work.
23.   The Contractor shall complete cut and fill operations to final cross-sections at any one
location as soon as possible and preferably in one continuous operation to avoid partially
completed earthworks, especially during the rainy season.
24.   In order to protect any cut or fill slopes from erosion, in accordance with the drawings,
cut off drains and toe-drains shall be provided at the top and bottom of slopes and be planted
with grass or other plant cover. Cut off drains should be provided above high cuts to minimize
water runoff and slope erosion.
25.   Any excavated cut or unsuitable material shall be disposed of in designated tipping areas
as agreed to by the Engineer.
26.   Tips should not be located where they can cause future slides, interfere with agricultural
land or any other properties, or cause soil from the dump to be washed into any watercourse.
Drains may need to be dug within and around the tips, as directed by the Engineer.
VI.   Historical and Archeological Sites
27.   If the Contractor discovers archeological sites, historical sites, remains and objects,
including graveyards and/or individual graves during excavation or construction, the Contractor
shall:
(a) Stop the construction activities in the area of the chance find.
(b) Delineate the discovered site or area.
(c) Secure the site to prevent any damage or loss of removable objects. In cases of
removable antiquities or sensitive remains, a night guard shall be present until the
responsible local authorities and the Ministry of Culture take over.
(d) Notify the supervisory Engineer who in turn will notify the responsible local
authorities and the Ministry of Culture immediately (less than 24 hours).
(e) Contact the responsible local authorities and the Ministry of Culture who would be in
charge of protecting and preserving the site before deciding on the proper procedures
to be carried out. This would require a preliminary evaluation of the findings to be
performed by the archeologists of the Ministry of Culture (within 72 hours). The
significance and importance of the findings should be assessed according to the



56
various criteria relevant to cultural heritage, including the aesthetic, historic, scientific
or research, social and economic values.
(f) Ensure that decisions on how to handle the finding be taken by the responsible
authorities and the Ministry of Culture. This could include changes in the layout (such
as when the finding is an irremovable remain of cultural or archeological importance)
conservation, preservation, restoration and salvage.
(g) Implementation for the authority decision concerning the management of the finding
shall be communicated in writing by the Ministry of Culture; and
(h) Construction work will resume only after authorization is given by the responsible
local authorities and the Ministry of Culture concerning the safeguard of the heritage.
VII.  Disposal of Construction and Vehicle Waste
28.   Debris generated due to the dismantling of the existing structures shall be suitably reused,
to the extent feasible, in the proposed construction (e.g., as fill materials for embankments). The
disposal of remaining debris shall be carried out only at sites identified and approved by the
project engineer. The contractor should ensure that these sites (a) are not located within
designated forest areas; (b) do not impact natural drainage courses; and (c) do not impact
endangered/rare flora. Under no circumstances shall the contractor dispose of any material in
environmentally sensitive areas.
29.   In the event any debris or silt from the sites is deposited on adjacent land, the Contractor
shall immediately remove such, debris or silt and restore the affected area to its original state to
the satisfaction of the Supervisor/Engineer.
30.   Bentonite slurry or similar debris generated from pile driving or other construction
activities shall be disposed of to avoid overflow into the surface water bodies or form mud
puddles in the area.
31.   All arrangements   for transportation  during  construction  including  provision,
maintenance, dismantling and clearing debris, where necessary, will be considered incidental to
the work and should be planned and implemented by the contractor as approved and directed by
the Engineer.
32.   Vehicle/machinery and equipment operations, maintenance and refueling shall be carried
out to avoid spillage of fuels and lubricants and ground contamination. An "oil interceptor" will
be provided for wash down and refueling areas. Fuel storage shall be located in proper bunded
areas.
33.   All spills and collected petroleum products shall be disposed of in accordance with
standard environmental procedures/guidelines. Fuel storage and refilling areas shall be located at
least 300m from all cross drainage structures and important water bodies or as directed by the
Engineer.



57
ANNEX 8A: ANALYSIS OF HOSPITALS SELECTED FOR REHABILITATION
Total
Number    Existing  Proposed    Area       Area      Area of
of    Number of Number of of Existing  Requiring    New
Hospital Emergency Emergency Emergency Rehabilitation Extension  Population
Name of Hospital         Location          Beds     Beds      Beds     Unit (m2)    (m2)       (m2)     Coverage
A                    B                C        D          E         F          G          H           I
1 Al Yarmouk T.H.  Baghdad/Karkh Yarmouk City   660        28        28      2,000        2,000       -       2,925,010
2 Al Karkh G. H.    Baghdad/Karkh               200         8        24        550         550       550
3Al KindyT. H.      Baghdad/SD                  223        24        24       1,000       1,000      300      3,142,225
4AIl Imam Ali G. H.  Baghdad/SD                 342        31         31       850         850       100
5 Baquba G.H        Diyala/Baquba               296        19        29        600         600       400      1,407,180
6 Kirkuk T. H       Kirkuk                      425        24        30        700         700       200       902,011
7 Amara G. H.      Missan                       482        24        30        700         700       200       778,685
8 Al Hussein G.H.   Karbala                     343        28        31        700         700       200       803,674
9AI Ramadi T. H.   Anbar/Ramadi City            428        24        30        700         700       200      2,162,997
10Samarra G. H.     Salah Deen/Samara City       147       10         20         -           -        700       172,251
11 Rizgari T. H.    Erbil                        400       24         30        700         700       200      1,300,000
12Jumhouri G.H      Sulaimanyiah                 197       10         20         -           -        700      1,620,000
Totals                                 4,143       254       327      8,500       8,500     3,750    15,214,033
Notes:
a/ Area per bed =   35 m2
b/ Basecost of Rehab  US$660 per m2 rehabilitation
c/ Basecost of Extension US$1,030 per m2 new



58
Selection of Priority Emergency Unit Buildings for Rehabilitation
The process for selection of the priority Emergency Unit Buildings for rehabilitation under the
project mainly has followed the guidelines earlier presented in the "Criteria for Selecting Priority
Hospital Facilities for Rehabilitation" (see below). The MOH established a list of priority
Emergency Units with balanced geographical spread over the country. The selected twelve
Emergency Units are located in nine different govemorates of Iraq. Four units are located in
Baghdad with a good spread to different areas of the city. The remaining eight units are
distributed to the following regions/cities: Dyala/Baquba, Kirkuk, Missan/Amara City, Karbala,
Anbar/Ramadi City, Salah Deen/Samara City, Erbil, and Sulaimanyiah.
Some important govemorates have been excluded from the list of priority Emergency Units
mainly because of the activities of other donors, for example, the Nasiriyah area (Italian funding)
and the Basra area (British funding). The rehabilitation of 15 hospitals, constructed in 1986 by
the Japanese Contractor Marubeni, may receive Japanese funding, according to preliminary
information.
The twelve Emergency Units are related to hospitals with an average capacity of 360 beds. Five
of the hospitals are teaching hospitals and seven are general hospitals. The largest hospital
included in the list of priority Emergency Units is the 660 bed Al-Yarmook Teaching Hospital in
Baghdad City. The most extensive rehabilitation works also are proposed in this hospital, i.e.,
full rehabilitation of 2000 m2 at an estimated construction cost of US$1.4 million. The average
area of all twelve Emergency Units proposed for rehabilitation is 700 m2 and the average
construction cost US$540,000.
In all hospitals, except for the Al-Yarmook Teaching Hospital, new extensions are proposed to
the existing Emergency Unit Buildings. The average area of the extensions is 310 m2 and the
average construction cost US$300.000. The total average area of the rehabilitation and extension
works for all twelve Emergency Units is 1020 m2 and the average total construction cost is
US$840,000.
The selection of the priority Emergency Units seems to be thoroughly well-founded and
motivated, although this could not be confirmed by the mission as the background material for
the selection and evaluation process has not yet been compiled into an evaluation report. The
PMT was requested to present an evaluation report in condensed form based on the selection
criteria mentioned above. The evaluation report would be an excellent tool for increasing the
understanding of the rehabilitation project among Iraqi officials and Bank staff not directly
involved in the project appraisal process.
Criteria for Selecting Priority Hospital Facilities for Rehabilitation
Priority hospital services, such as emergency units, emergency obstetric services, critical care
services (operation departments, ICU, CCU, acute radiology, etc.) and support services (central
sterilization departments, laboratories, etc.) will be partly or fully rehabilitated and equipped in
12 carefully selected hospitals.



59
The following essential data were required for the selection of priority hospital services and for
finalization of the list of priority projects:
*  The present and future role of the facility in the medical structure of Iraq, with regard to
medical services, medical training and location;
*  Size of the population served (the community's dependence on the facility based on patient
origin information and percentage of users from the community that go to the specific
facility);
*  Other similar medical services offered within the same catchment area (duplication with
other donors/other medical providers within the catchment area);
*  Accessibility for patients, ambulances and other emergency vehicles (strategic location in the
region/catchments area, location in the traffic/road network, intensity of traffic on access
roads, risks for traffic congestions, quality of public transports, etc.);
*  Present and planned medical production/utilization (number of outpatient visits to each
clinical service including emergency cases and utilization of the health institution's ancillary
and adjunct services; number of radiology examinations, laboratory analyses, deliveries and
operations in different specialties; number of beds, planned and acute admissions, average
length of stay and occupancy rate in each clinical service including recovery and post-
operative beds, ICU, CCU, etc.);
*  Number of staff per category;
*  Year of construction and current functional and technical condition of buildings (including
technical supply systems for water, sewage, electricity, telecommunication, heating, air-
condition, medical gases, etc.) and of major medical equipment and hospital information
systems;
*  Total site area of the hospital in hectares (size of available land);
*  Total gross floor area (total area of all floor levels between outer faces of containing walls) of
the facility as a whole and of each separate building;
*  Net floor area of each principal unit of the hospital which is proposed for rehabilitation or
upgrading (floor area calculated to the interior of containing walls including partitions and
corridors within a department, etc.);
*  Current plans for rehabilitating and/or upgrading facilities and medical equipment (including
city maps, site plans, floor plans, and photos showing the present situation);
*  Preliminary cost estimates of the proposed works and of other planned measures (purchasing
of medical equipment, etc).
Example of qualifying criteria for a given facility:
*  It is evident that the facility will play an important role in the future medical structure of Iraq;
*  The facility is of crucial importance within a heavily populated catchment area;
*  The facility is the sole important source of medical emergency services within the catchment
area;
*  The accessibility to the facility via public transport and the traffic/road network is greater
than for other equivalent facilities within the same catchment area;
*  The health institution offers (or can easily be upgraded to offer) a complete range of medical
emergency services, i.e., a functioning accident and emergency unit with close and quick
access to diagnostic facilities (emergency radiology and laboratory services, etc.) and



60
treatment/critical care facilities (operation theatres, ICU, CCU, etc.) as well as close access to
observation beds, emergency assessment beds, and post acute beds;
* The staffing is well-balanced (or can easily be upgraded to well-balanced) against the
planned future medical capacity of the health institution;
* The current functional and technical condition of the building meets minimum standards for
justifying major investments and will extend the life of the facility by an additional 15-20
years;
* The land available for the facility will permit future extensions of the medical services over
a period of 15-20 years;
* The capacity and the total gross floor area of the health institution is sufficient for the
planned rehabilitation and/or upgrading of the medical services without costly new buildings;
* The current plans for rehabilitation and upgrading of the facilities and medical equipment can
be realized within the budget available for the facility.



61
ANNEX 8B. LIST OF MEDICAL AND LABORATORY EQUIPMENT
SI#                            Product Description                          Quantity
1   Emergency Resuscitation Trolley c/w Defibrillator, Monitor, Suction, IV, 02,  12
laryngoscope, resuscitation bag and masks,forceps and tubing
2   Minor Operating Table c/w anti static mattress, shoulder rests and lithotomy  24
poles,adjustable height
3   ECG machine 3/6/12 lead portable, mains/rechargeable c/w spares & accessories  24
4   Mobile Double Bottle Suction Unit, 2 Litre c/w Spare Bottles, Filters, Tubing &  36
Accessories
5   Defibrillator c/w Monitor and recorder mains /battery operated 1 - 360 joules  24
(extemal) and 1 - 50 (internal). ECG monitor with heart rate indicator and alarms
6   Hot Air Sterilizer suitable for sterlizing small instruments e.g. forceps, scissors etc.  12
7   Oxygen Cylinder Trolley Mounted mobile large size cylinder (NB Need to check  113
fitting)
8   Oxygen Regulator c/w small bottle humidifier                             226
9   Complete Emergency Resuscitation Kit c/w ambu bag, adult & child          24
sphygmomanometer, laryngoscope, stethoscope, manual suction, adult, child and
infant masks, airways, endotracheal tubes (various),nasogastric tubes, scissors &
forcemo                                  .
10   Mobile X Ray unit, 125kva all purpose (plus start up items e.g. screen, aprons,  12
hangers)
11   Pulse Oximeter Portable, rechargeable c/w finger sensor                  113
12   Cardiac Monitor portable single channel, mains operated                   85
13   Portable Ventilator for emergency use, c/w circuit hose, exhalation valve  12
14   Infusion Pump Mobile Volumetric adult/paediatric and rechargeable battery  42
operation
15   Nebulizer Portable for adult & child use,c/w masks, mouth pieces, tubing  113
16   Biochemistry Autoanlyzer, electrolyte urea creatinine, sodium, potassium etc.  12
17   Ultrasound mobile for emergency use to cover abdominal, cardiac, obstetric and  24
gynae use
18   Hospital Bed, Kings Fund type type hydraulic variable height, Trendelenburg and  339
Reverse Trendelenburg, removable foot and head ends, adjustable back rest c/w
1V pole attachment.
19   Mobile Operating light, four light source with integral emergency battery power unit,  24
Light intensity 75000 lux. On mobile stand with anti static castors
20   Foot or hand operated suction pump for emergency use. Double bottle model.  24
Maximum vacuum 450 mm Hg, total capacity 600 ml, positive/negative pressure
valve for adult and child use c/w tubing
Total
Note: Breakdown of quantities by Hospital is indicated in the PIM



62
ANNEX 8C. LIST OF EMERGENCY MEDICAL DRUGS
Si #                  Product Description                  Quantity
Package-1, Direct Contracting, under 3.6 (c) of the Guidelines
1   Alteplase Injection                                       427
Package-2, ICB
1   Adrenaline Iniection                                   64,000
2   Aminophylline Injection                                 42,650
3   Atenolol Iniection                                      42,650
4   Atropine Iniection                                      42,650
5   Calcium Gluconate Injection                             21,300
6   Chrophenamine Iniection                                 32,000
7   Dexamethasone Injection                                 95,950
8   Dextron 70                                              74 650
9   Diazepam Injection                                     42,650
10   Diclofenac Sodium Injection                            64,000
11   Diqoxin Injection                                      21,300
12   Dopamine Hydrochloride Injection                       32,000
13   Ergometnne Injection                                   10,670
14   Furosemide Injection                                   95,950
15   Glyceryl Thnitrate Injection                           21,300
16   Heparin Sodium Injection                               21,300
17   Hydrocortisone Injection                               32,000
18   Hypertonic Glucose 50% Injection                       21,300
19   Isosolbide dinitrate Injection                         42,650
20   Ketamine Hydrochroride Injection                        5,380
21   Lidocaine Hydrochoride 2% Injection                    25,580
22   Lidocaine Hydrochoride 2% Injection with adrenaline    25,580
23   Metochlopromide Hydrochroride Injection                95,950
24   Metronidazole IV Infusion                               7,670
25   Nifidipine Capsules                                    127,900
26   Pathidine Hydrochroride Injection                      25,600
27   Phenobarbital Injection                                21,300
28   Potassium Chloride Concentrate Sterile Injection       21,300
29   Propranolol Injection                                  21,300
30   Ranitidine Hydrochroride Injection                     32,000
31   Sulbutamol sulfate Injection                           95,950
32   Sodium Bicarbonate Injection                           21,300
33   Suxamethonium Chroride Injection                        5,380
34   Thiopental Sodium powder Injection                      5,380
35   Virapamil Hydrochloride Injection                      32,000
36   Vitamine K (Phytomenadion) Injection                   21,300
Total                          1,412,267
Note: Breakdown of quantities by Hospital is indicated in the PIM



63
ANNEX 9. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Calendar Years    CY-2004                                  CY-2005                              |CY-2006
Months                                          NvJan                                           FebAr u I JlNvanMar ArMyJnIJu
Weeks   3141213141112314 21 314 112131411213 4 12 31423 411121314l112 131 1 42  1  412341p1314 11121314 111213l1 121314111213141112I3 141112 314 1214 112 13 141t3i4
A Consultant Selection Process
I PMT Prepares TOR
2  PMT submits TOR to IDA for review
3 IDA submits comments
4  PMT finalizes TOR
5 PMT advertises for expressions of interest tEOl)
6  Consultants res ond to EOI
7  PMT invites mostqualified firm to submit proposals
a Consultants submit tech/fin, proposals
9
10  PMT submits draft contract to IDA for review                                                     litl as possible
11 IDA issues its 'No Objection' to PMT
12 PMT signs contract with consultant
B Execution of assignment:
1  Consultant prepares medical brief & schedule
2E ci      ent rlteviives    _(lt                              he
3  Consultant submits Schematic Dealg ns
5 Consultant prepares Room & Equip La outs
5  Consultant submits Final Designs   ___
6 _Client reviews and approves                   ---         -
7  Consultant prepares Bidding Documents                                         O
8  Client reviewsad proe
C Bidding, Contracting
1  PMT submits Bidding Documents to IDA ___
2 IDA issues its "No Objection" to proceed with bidding
3 Bidding period
4 PMT evaluates bids and submits to IDA for no'
5  IDA issueit"nobconifruid
61 PMT awards contract
71 Contractor mobilizes and moves into sitet                                                                                             l
*Critical Evaluation Activities that should overlap as little as possible
Note:
Consultant Selection Process would start for all Assignments at the start of the Project.
Submission of Proposals and Contracting would be as indicated on the Schedule
Execution of Assignment Activities (B 1-8) would be repeated for each Package as indicated



64
Project Implementation Schedule (cont'd)
Calendar Years     CY-2004                                    CY-2005                               ICY-2006
Months                          Febn Mar __ArIMay JnI Jun Aug S          ep IOtINov I Dec                                  JaMrIApMyJun I Julr
Weeks ~~~~~~~~~~1 i3_1 31213 1i34 1 t12131. 34 11291121314t  12 13141t 121314 111213141112 13141112 131411121314 121314112 131411121314
_~~~~~~~~I IT I I LL                    I I I II I I T!TT I II II UL                        no de Ju.ne 3         6 - 
Pckg B-1 Al Kindy T.H. (Baghdad/S)                            <     < Target dates for submitting proposals & signing Design/Spn contract T;           I I I
I  PMT submits Bidding Documents to IDA                                                                             _H     1 ..L 
2   IDA issues its "no" to proceed with bidding __-
3  _Biddi   eid  ____             _~-                                                                                                                                  -
4 Bid evaluation
5   IDA issues its "noobjectionif reuired
6   PMT awards contract
7  Contractor mobilizes and moves into site                                                                 &          i  i
8  Construction period (240 days)
Pckg B-21A Kaquba G.H. (Biaghad/)                              ||[l    <---Trgetdat.s for submitting proposals & signing Design/Spn contract
1  PMT submits Bidding Documents to IDAI 
2   IDA issues its "no" to proceed with bidding                                                              I 
3  Biddin  ero      ____     _____
4  Bid evaluation
5 IDA issues its "no olbiection" (if reqiuired)
6 PMT awards contract
7 Contractor mobilizes and moves into site
8  Construction er   (20 day       _ 
Pck    C-2                                                                                   1 BauaGH  Dyl)  -Tre  atsfrsbifn prpsls & sigin De igSp cnrt
1  PMT submits Biddinge Dcmn      tod oD                                                              a tit a
2  IDA issues its 'no" to proceed with bidding                                  ------ -                    IIIIIII1
3Bidding period                                                                                                 I 
4  Bid evaluation______
5  IDA issues its "no_oecio  If euired)
6 PMT awtards contract
71 Contractor mobilizes and moves into site
8  C-ons-truction eriod(2  da a
* Critical Evaluation Activities that should overlap as little as possible



65
Project Implementation Schedule (cont'd)
Calendar Years     C Y-2 014                                  CY :  -200                                            CY-2006
Months    _   _ Nov I ec   an     e     rMarr I May IJun I Jul IAug ISep I Oct INov                    a                    IFb a Jun I Jul
Pckg D-1 Al Imam All G.H. (Baghdad/S)                                 <-- (]<--Target dates for submitting proposals & signing Design/Spn contract
1 FPMT subm~its Bidding Documents to IDA     .....                                                        I   TU    IT      I      IIII      I
2 IDA issues its 'no" to proceed with bidding
3 -Bidding period
4 Bid evaluation
5 IDA issues its "no objection" (if required)
6 PMT awards contract
7 1Contractor mobilizes and moves into site
8   Constructionperiod(180d||                                                            ||Jays)
8 __ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                               . .  .  .    .. _       _   _      _ I -_-__-_--_----L
Pckg D-2 Kirkuk G.H. (Kirkuk)             -I -a<-0-Targetdatesforsubmittingproposals&signingDesign/Spncontract I                               i
1  PMT submits BiddiLng Documents to IDA                                                                  11          -TT        I11        :f    --------
2   IDA issues its 'no' to proceed with bidding 
3 Bidding period
4   Bid evaluationIIIII                                                                                                                     I     IIIIII
5   IDA  issues its 'no objection" (if required)                                          -        - -L   --   -      -  -  -  - -   II-  -   -             -  -  -  -      -
6 PMT awards contract
7  Contractor mobilizes and moves into site      _                                                                 I I
8  Construction period (180 days)
1PMTg subAmits Bidding D Messn nT                                                  aget tstes toorlap DsAllttle  as po sibe
2 IDA issues its "no" to proceed with bidding
3 Bidding period
4 Bid evaluation
5  IDA issues its "no objection' (if required) 
61 PMT awards contract                                                                      TT     T-      --------                                                  --
7  Contractor mobilizes and moves into site 
8   Construction period (18  days)-
*  Critical Evaluation Activities that should overlap aslittle as possible



66
Project Implementation Schedule (cont'd)
Calendar Years   CY-2004CY20CY06
Moth                jan0(1  ;7_e I  Mr IApr I May I Jun I Jui IAgISp I    Oc  o IDc|Jn | e    ar Ap    Ma   JuIJi
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IF I I I 'P......... 06
Pckg D-4 Al Hussein G.H.{Karbata)                                  <- (<--Target dates for submitting proposals & signing Design/Spn contract
1  PMT submits Bidding Documents to IDAII
2  IDA issues its "no" to proceed w~ith bidin
3 __BiddinRRqeriod __  _     _
4 Bid evaluation
5 IDA issues its "no objection" (if required)
6 PMT awards contract
7  Contractor mobilizes and moves into site
8  Construction period (180 days)                                               soloeapsitea_
Pckg D-5 Al Ramadi G.H. (Anbar)                                        -   <--Target dates for submitting propsas & signing Design/Spn contract
1  PMT submits BiddingDocuments to IDA    -     ---                                                            I       I        1         I
2  IDA issues its "no" to proceed wit idn
3 Bidding period
4  Bid evaluation 
5  IDA issues its "no objection" (if required)                                                                 o-                                     --
6 PMT awards contract
7 Contractor mobilizes and moves into site
1  PMT submits Bidding Documents to< IDAngproosls& ignngDeig/Sp cntac
2  IDA issues its "no' to proceed wit idn
3_Bidding priod
4 Bid evaluation
5  IDA issues its "no objection" (if reied
6 _PMT awards contract-----
7. Contractor mobilizes and moves into site                                                                                F    F.7TA                       t.
*Critical Evaluation Activities that should overlap as little as possible



67
Project Implementation Schedule (cont'd)
Calendar Years     CY-200       I                             CY-2005                                |CY-2006
Months   OcI Nov         I e Jan I Feb  |Mr ar  T    ay l un TJ     1Au  9  Sp   [         ov IDec T Jan I F-en I Mar IA r  Ma |  Jn I Jul
Weeks   12z1314111 2131 t                     i1  1    12 3S4T 41   12314 3 431; 1121314V 1231411121314 1 F T_Ir ~3l4  2 41  21[3 1421314
Pckg D-7 Rizgarl G.H. (Erbil)                                                   <-    <-Targetdates for submitting proposals & signing Design/Spn contract
1  PMT submits Bidding Documents to IDA                                            II     III 
2   IDA issues its 'no to proce  -wit--biddi
3   Bidding period                                                                                                                        -        -                    -
4   Bid evaluationIII
5  IDA issues its 'no objection (ff required)--
6 PMT awards Contract
7  Contrac tor mobilizes and moves into site
8   Constructioneriod(180da 
1 PMT submits Bidding Documents to IDA
2 IDA issues its "no" to proceed with bidding
3  Bidding period                  I______
4   Bid evaluation 
5   IDA issues its "no obection (if re uired
61 PMT awards contract
71 Contractor mobilizes and moves into site                                                                                                        -III
81 Construction pe riod(180 da
' Critical Evaluation Activities that should overlap as little as possible



68
ANNEX 10: INTERNATIONAL DONOR HEALTH ACTIVITIES IN THE REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
Donor
Agency                                Description of Health-related Activities                      US$         Funding
Source
World Bank    The Iraq Emergency Rehabilitation Project activities include:                       25,000,000  IRRFI
* Emergency rehabilitation of 12 emergency health facilities;
* Urgent provision of basic medical and laboratory equipment and essential emergency drugs
to the 12 rehabilitated sites; and
. Strengthening of planning and management capacity within the central and provincial health
administrations.
Additional technical assistance in health policy and health systems development has been provided
through EU, IRFFI and World Bank funding.
UN Health     UN Health Cluster approved projects:                                                12,603,000  IRRFI
Cluster          .   Emergency Obstetric Care - UNFPA                                             37,363,000
.  Supporting Primary Health Care System - WHO                                    5,977,000  (other donors
(WHO,            *   Re-establishing the National Drug Quality Control Laboratory - WHO           11,000,000  such as USAID,
UNICEF,          *   Strengthening non-communicable diseases and mental health controls - WHO                JICA and EU
UNFPA)                                                                                                       have funded
Pipeline: Specific activities not available but budget in pipeline: US$ 78,000,000             various activities
under their
project
objectives)
US/PCO        Construction:                                                                                  US
The Buildings, Health and Education Sector (BHE) will spend $786 million on healthcare facilities  786,000,000
(United       and healthcare-related equipment. To date, roughly $70 million of the total $916 million allocated to
States Iraq   general renovation and construction projects have been spent. More specifically, the BHE Sector
Project and   has begun renovations on five hospitals. The BHE to-do list includes rehabilitating and constructing
Contracting   approximately 150 primary healthcare centers and renovating 19 hospitals.
Office)
Non-construction:



69
* Equipment Procurement/Modernization
- Equipment for clinics/hospitals, staff training
* Capacity Building
- Infectious disease control, National health policy reform, institutional decentralization
USAID         Abt Associates:                                                                      23,000,000  US
Contract supporting a reformed Iraqi Ministry of Health (MOH) at the national, regional and local
(United States  levels; delivering health services; providing medical equipment and supplies; training and recruiting
Agency for    health staff; providing health education and information; and determining the specific needs of the
International  health sector and vulnerable populations such as women and children.
Development)                                                                                        8,000,000
Grant to UNICEF:                                                                     1st year (up
Grant provides for: restoration/provision of basic health services to the most vulnerable populations,  to
focusing on women and children; support for primary health care services; fund essential medicines,  40,000,000)
vaccines and micronutrients; establishment a rapid referral and response system for the most
serious cases; and publishing and distribution relevant health education materials and nutritional
assessments.
10,000,000
Grant to WHO:
Grant provides for: identification of crucial immediate and short-term health care needs of the
population; rapid restoration of essential health services for the population; and strengthening of the
capacity of a reformed Iraqi Ministry of Health to manage the health sector including review and
further development of health policies and health system management.
JICA          Humanitarian Assistance for Iraq                                                     29,500,000  JICA
(a) World Food Programme (WFP): food supply                                          (combined
(Japan        (b) United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF): child care, education                    with other
International  (c) International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC): distribution of medical supplies  sectors))
Cooperation   (d) United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR): assistance for refugees
Agency)
Assistance for the emergency medical activities of NGOs                               3,300,000
(a) Japan Platform Joint Team operating in Jordan
(b) Peace Winds Japan operating in Northern Iraq
Humanitarian and Recovery Assistance                                                    90,000



70
Grassroots Assistance to Umm Qasr Community: provision of vehicles, pharmaceutical kits and
potable water tanks
2,700,000
Assistance to the following NGO activities
(a) Medical projects and distribution of emergency supplies in Iraq carried out by Japan Platform
(Japanese NGOs)
(b) Project distributing medical supplies including antibiotics in Iraq run by Hashemite Charity
Organization (Jordanian NGO, May 16)                                                 24,450,000
(c) Project distributing medical equipment such as Infant Intravenous Kits run by CARE International  (combined
(International NGO, May 16)                                                           with other
sectors)
Further consideration will be given to implementing the following projects:
(a) Emergency Assistance for Hospital Rehabilitation and Equipment
Activities: rehabilitate general hospitals for which Government of Japan had provided loan
aid in the past.
(b) Emergency Water and Sanitation Rehabilitation Programme
Activities: provide support for projects in the areas of water supply, drainage and sanitation.
(c) Reconstruction of Public and Other Facilities in Iraq
Activities: rehabilitate public facilities as "reconstruction models."
EU/ECHO       (a) Emergency relief operations of the following partners were funded:               12,377,000  EU
(combined
(European        a   The International Committee of the Red Cross: for food, medical kits and rehabilitation of  with other
Union/Europe         water/sanitation facilities in conflict-affected areas.                          sectors)
an               *   UNICEF: for water tankering, sanitation, emergency rehabilitation of primary healthcare
Community            centres and hospitals in the centre and south of Iraq.
Humanitarian     *   CARE: for emergency water supply in the Baghdad region as well as Al Anbar governorate
Aid                 (west) where 30,000 people had no access to water.
Department)      *   Premiere Urgence: for basic repairs to health institutions, tents to boost hospital capacity,
back-up generators and water supplies in the Baghdad area, in support of up to 20,000
civilian victims of the fighting.
*  UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA): for coordination activities in
countries of the region neighboring Iraq.
(b) This funding was meant to meet urgent medical needs in Iraq, following bomb damage and  13,029,000
widespread looting that affected hospitals and other health facilities. The funding covered the  (combined



71
provision of medical and hygiene supplies to medical facilities (the first consignment was airlifted to  with other
Baghdad on May 9), rehabilitation of damaged or looted infrastructures, including the restoration of  sectors)
water and electricity supplies, support for emergency medical and surgical care, and emergency
vaccination campaigns.
Partners for this decision were Medecins du Monde (Spain and Greece), Terre des Hommes (IT),
GOAL, Gruppo di Volontariato Civile (GVC), Aide Medicale Internationale (France), Premiere
Urgence (France), CARE (NL), Telecommunications sans Frontieres and UNICEF.
48,208,000
(c) This funding was meant to complement the "Oil-for-Food" programme, which was then managed  (combined
by the United Nations humanitarian agencies. Projects funded included:                with other
sectors)
*  Health and nutrition: rehabilitation of health and social infrastructures, training in disease
surveillance, distribution of essential medicines, materials and equipment, provision of fresh
food for hospital patients, and complementary food supplies.
.  Other sectors: water and sanitation; coordination, logistics and technical assistance, including
the opening in Baghdad of an ECHO support office shortly after the war ended.
The partners were Acted, Action contre la faim, Alisei, Aide Medicale Internationale, Care-
UK, Comite d'aide medicale, COOPI, COSV, Dan Church Aid, Enfants du monde-Droits de
I'homme, Gruppo di Volontariato Civile, Help Age, the International Organization for Migrations,
INTERSOS, Merlin, Movimondo, Oxfam, Pharmaciens sans Frontieres, Premiere Urgence,
Solidarites, Tel6communications sans Frontieres, Terre des Hommes, Un Ponte per..., the United
Nations Development Programme, UNICEF, the World Food Programme, and the World Health
Organisation.                                                                        41,364,000
(combined
with other
(d) The objective of this funding, to be implemented in 2004, is to respond effectively to the  sectors)
continuing humanitarian needs in Iraq. Activities include:
*  Health: rehabilitation of primary health centres, provision of medical equipment and drugs,
support for mother and child health actions, promotion of safe blood transfusion programmes
and support for disease surveillance and the development of accurate health information
systems.
*  Other sectors: water and sanitation; education; de-mining; emergency relief for IDPs; and
security strengthening.



72
NGOs          NGOs are subcontracted by the above donors whose activities are delineated above. To avoid  NA  Various
duplication of activities, they are not included in this table.
Sources:
UN Health Cluster:
http://www.irffi.orgNWBSITE/EXTERNALIIRFFI/0,,contentMDK:20241686-menuPK:497875-pagePK:64168627-piPK:64167475-theSitePK:49145
8,00.html
USIPCO: http://www.rebuilding-
iraq .net/portal/page?_pageid=75,80102&_dad=portal&_schema=PORTAL&p_tab_id=1 571 &p_link_id=1 573&Regid=1
USAID: http://www.usaid.gov/iraq/activities.html
EU/ECHO: http://europa.eu.int/comm/echo/field/iraq/funding2003 en.htm
J ICA: http://www.embjapan .org/english/html/policies/political/assistanceforiraqsummary.htm
World Bank: http://www-wds.worldbank.org/servletNWDS_IBank_Servlet?pcont=details&eid=000104615_20041005091901



73
ANNEX 11: TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
Sequence                                 Timing
Time taken to prepare and process the project
Identification and preparation mission
Appraisal                                October 9-12, 2004
Negotiations                             November 22, 2004
Grant approval                           November 30, 2004
Planned Effectiveness                    December 2004
Planned Closing Date                     June 30, 2006



74
ANNEX 12: NAMES OF STAFF/CONSULTANTS WHO WORKED ON THE PROJECT
Names of staff/consultants who worked on the project
Name                            Function
Jean Jacques Frere              Task Team Leader, Sr. Health Specialist
Virginia Jackson                Sr. Operations Officer/Consultant
Vasilios Demetriou              Sr. Implementation Specialist/Consultant
Majed El-Bayya                  Sr. Procurement Specialist
Nazaneen Ismail Ali             Procurement Specialist/Consultant
David Webber                    Lead Financial Management Specialist
Hiroko Imamura                  Sr. Counsel
Ayman Abu-Haija                 Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Ali Awais                       Legal Counsel
Stefanie Brackmann              Environmental Specialist
Oroub El Abed                   Social Scientist
Monica Larrieu                  Health Specialist/Consultant
Walid Al-Tawil                  Health Specialist/Consultant
Zeina Samara                    Finance Analyst
Mira Hong                       Operations Analyst
Dick Lindberg                   Health Facility Planner/Consultant
Emma Etori                      Language Program Assistant
Nancy-Jean Seigel               Team Assistant
Ad Hoc Advisory Committee
Name                 Function
Joseph Saba          Country Director
Akiko Maeda          Health Sector Manager
Alfred Nickesen      Manager, OPCS Representative
Nadjib Sefta         Regional Procurement Advisor
Sherif Arif          Regional Environmental and Safeguards Advisor
Tufan Kolan          Portfolio Manager
Aloysius Ordu        Manager, Operations Services
Samia M'sadek        Regional Financial Management Manager
Faris Hadad-Zervos   Head of Mission, World Bank Iraq Office in Amman
Kathryn Funk          Sr. Country Officer
Hadi Abushakra       Chief Counsel
David Webber         Lead Finance Officer, Fiduciary Assurance
Colin Scott           Lead Specialist
Robert Bou Jaoude     Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Hiba Tahboub          Sr. Procurement Specialist
Olusoji Adeyi        Coordinator, Peer Reviewer, HDNLHE
Janet Nassim         Senior Operations Officer, Peer Reviewer, HDNHE






*~~~~~~~~~S-                                        VCJ-,1
Cd,    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G
.-  a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ l~
C ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"                /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0






