K$  .2 ( ~-4& R<'(-- Q/L/7
o_tf
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE or-y
Repot No. P-6359-sC
MEMORAMNDU  AND RECOMMEDATIlON
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERK&TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATIION
TO THE
KXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 53.1 MILLION
(US$75.0 MILLION)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CANEROON
FOR AN
ECOOMlIC RECOVERY CREDIT
MAY 25, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-   6359 CM
Type: MOP
This document has a resticted distibution and may be us_d by recpin only in te perfornae of
toeir official dutis. Its contents may not ohewise be dbicloed wihout Wold Ban autoriatn.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA FRANC (CFAF) *
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Systen
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                 -      Afican Development Bank
CAA                 -      Caisse Atonome d'Amortissement
CAMAIR              -      Cameroon Airlines
CAMSHIP             -      Cameroon Shipping Lines
CAMTAINER           -      Societe Nationale de Transport et de Transit du Cameroun
CDC                 -      Cameroon Development Corporation
FIAS                -      Foreign Adv*sory Service
FNE                 -      Fonds National de VEmploi
BEVECAM             -      Soci&6 de D6veloppement H6v6a-Cameroun
ICAI                -      imp8t sur le Chiffre d'Affaires Int6rieur
MINASCOF            -      Ministry of Social Affairs
MINDIC              -      Ministry of Industry and Commerce
MINEDUC             -      Ministry of Education
MINFI               -      Ministry of Finance
MINFOPRA                   Ministy of Civil Service
MINPAT              -      Ministry of Plan
MINSANTE            -      Ministry oI 3ialth
MInTPS              -      Ministry of Labor and Social Security
PE                  -      Public Enterprise
PIP                 -      Public Investnent Program
POrI                -      Plans d'Organisation et d'Effectifs
REER                -      Real Effective Exchange Rate
REGIFERCAM          -      RWgie des Chenuns de Fer du Cameroun
SCDP                -      Soci6t6 Cainerounaise de Dep6ts Petroliers
SNH                 -      Societe Nationale des Hydrocarbures
SOCAPALM            -      SociSte des Palme ies du Canwoun
SODECOTON           -      Societ6 de D6veloppement de Coton
SONARA              -      Societe Nationale de Raffinage
SOTUC               -      Societe des Transports Urbains du Cameroun
TCA                 -      Taxe sur le Chiffre d'Affaires
TCAI                -      Taxe sur le Chiffre d'Affaires A lImportation
TIP                 -      Taxe Intdrieure sur la Production
TU                  -      Taxe Unique
UDEAC               -      Union Douani6re et Economique des Pays de l'Afiique Centrale
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
*     The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French fianc (FF) at the ratio of FF1 to CFAF 100
The French franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
Borrower:            Republic of Cameroon
Main
Beneficiaries:       Ministry of Finance; Ministry of Education; Ministry of Health
Amount:              SDR 53.1 million (IDA: US$ 75 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
On-lending
terms:              Not applicable
Economic Rate
of Return:          Not applicable
Staff Apralsal
Report:             No separate report
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoration.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
OF SDR 53.1 MILLON (US$75 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendations on a proposed
Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) to the Republic of Cameroon for SDR 53.1 million, tne
equivalent of US$75 million, on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years to support major
economic reforms currently being carried out by the Government and to provide general balance
of payment support.
PART I. COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. INTRODUCMION
2.    Cameroon is among the countries in Africa with the greatest development potential. It is
richly endowed with tropical forests, coastal fisheries, mineral resources (petroleum, bauxite,
natural gas), fertile agricultural land and a largely favorable climate. The country's economy is
served by a well-developed infrastructure and communications network, and until the mid-1980s a
well-functioning financial system. During the first 25 years after Independence (1960-85), an
appropriate mix of policies allowed this potential to be realized and real economic growth
averaged about 7 percent a year throughout the period. Agriculture was the main source of
growth and foreign exchange earnings until 1978, when oil production started and became the
cornerstone of economic growth.
3.    A sharp terms of trade loss and an appreciating real effective exchange rate combined with
the onset of declining oil production dragged the economy into a steep depression in 1985/86
following 7 years of oil-driven economic growth. Cameroon launched an adjustment program in
1988/89 with support from the IMF and the World Bank to address the mounting economic
disequilibria. However, the program failed to address the fundamental problems in the economy
and the economic decline continued unabated. A major change occurred on January 12, 1994,
when the Govemment of Cameroon, along with its partner countries in the CFA zone, decided to
realign the parity of the CFA Franc from 50 CFA/FF to 100 CFA/FF. To take advantage of the
positive effects brought about by this action, the Government, with the assistance from the IMF
and IDA, quickly adopted and started implementing a comprehensive program of econonic
measures and structural reforms.



2
4.    To assure that the parity change leads to a significant turnaround in economic growth and
faster alleviation of poverty, the Country Assistance Strategy presented below aims to increase
the market orientation of the economy and the capacity of the productive sectors to employ, to
invest and to produce. Key supporting policy reforms to achieve this are: retrenchnent of the
public sector, better management of public resources, improved environment for productive
efforts, and human resource development.
B. BACKGROUND AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
OIL BOOM AND UNADRESSED SHOCKS
5.    The flow of oil revenues, while notionally improving the macroeconomic indicators,
exacerbated Cameroon's mounting structural problems. The external resources balance went from
a small deficit in 1976/77 to a surplus of 11 percent of GDP in 1984/85 and gross domestic
savings increased to more than 35 percent. The ensuing improvement in government revenues
(through royalties and income taxes) and a relatively high credit rating in the international
financial markets, enabling Cameroon to gain access to external financing, generated a substantial
expansion in the public sector at large and public investm,-nts in particular. However, the public
sector-led expansion was driven by conspicuously high levels of consumption - i.e., civil servant
wages, subsidies and transfers -- and capital intensive and generally unsustainable public
investments. At the end of the oil boom, the country was thus left with an over-dimensioned
irastruct-ure, a large civil service and public enterprise sector, and a significantly higher external
indebtedness.
6.    During the 1986-89 period, Cameroon suffered from three major shocks which unmasked
the fragility of the oil-dependent development strategy. First, the sharp decline in export prices -
led by petroleum in 1986 and followed by cocoa and coffee - caused Cameroon's external terms of
trade to fall by more than 55 percent from 1984/85 to 1988/89. Second, Cameroon's oil
production started to decline after reaching its peak in 1985/86. Third, with its exchange rate
linked to a rising French Franc and unable to contain domestic inflation below those of its main
trading partners, Cameroon's real effective exchange rate (REER) appreciated substantially, thus
reducing the international competitiveness of the country.
7.   In the absence of appropriate corrective adjustment measures, these shocks dragged the
Cameroonian economy into a long and deep crisis. Real GDP fell by an average of 3.4 percent a
year from 1985/86 to 1988/89 and real per capita income levels dropped by almost 40 percent.
Budgetary revenues decreased by 35 percent during the same period. In the face of constant
current expenditures, this drop caused a sharp rise in the overall budget deficit to above 13
percent of GDP in 1986/87. A reduction to 5 percent of GDP by 1988/89 was only achieved by
slashing public investments and expenditures on maintenance. These deficits were largely
financed by an accumulation of domestic arrears and by increased foreign borrowing. The
external current account switched from a surplus in 1984/85 to a large deficit in 1988/89 and was



3
financed mainly through draw down of foreign assets of the banking system and a further build-up
of external debt. The emergence of domestic arrears and the decline in foreign assets created a
liquidity crisis in the banking system, exposing imprudent past lending practices.
INTERNAL ADJUSTMENT - Too LATE AND Too LIrTLE
8.    The Government launched an economic reform program which was supported by a
Standby Arrangement with the LMF in 1988 and an IBRD Structural Adjustment Loan in 1989.
The progran aimed at correcting the macroeconomic disequilibria based on the assumption that
these objectives could be achieved through internal policies only. Progress was made in
implementing reforms in a number of areas, notably in liberalizing trade. However, Government's
inability to implement strong intemal measures, meant that the overall objectives were not
achieved and the fundamental structural problems of the economy became increasingly apparent.
9.    While external trade was liberalized significantly during 1989-93, it was associated with
relative price movements which were perverse in their incentive and distributional effects as the
prices for non-tradeables were maintained. In addition to a continued deterioration of the external
terms of trade, estimated to have declined by 60 percent since 1984185, the rising value of the
French Franc vis-a-vis the US dollar forced the Government to lower the local prices of the main
exports, resulting in a sharp decline in the relative internal price of tradeables vis-a-vis non-
tradeables. Incomes of rural producers were reduced by almost 50 percent while prices of public
utilities and services as well as wage levels in the public and parapublic sectors remained
unaffected. It was only with the recent realignment of the parity of the CFA Franc in combiination
with the significant civil servant wage cuts in November 1993, that relative prices became more
conducive for increased output in the tradeable sectors.
10.   By December 1993, Cameroon's economy and its external accounts had deteriorated
significantly as the fundamental structural problems remained unaddressed and financial
imbalances were allowed to mount. Since the onset of the crisis in 1986, real GDP had declined
by about 30 percent and the real per capita income (taking into account the terms of trade loss)
has declined by about 55 percent. Compared to its 1988/89 level, agricultural production, once
the engine of the economy, fell by 25 percent, while the small, largely import-substituting light
manufacturing sector and the service sector declined by 20 percent. The mining sector,
dominated by petroleum, experienced its worst drop between 1986 and 1987, and has been in
decline ever since. The current account deficit reached about 10.5 percent of GDP in 1992/93 as
the resource balance went into deficit due to the petroleum-induced export decline which
outweighed import compression, and as interest payments increased significantly. The absence of
real adjustment during the period 1984/85-1992/93 was evidenced by the fact that overall
consumption only declined slightly while domestic savings dropped from 35 percent to 10 percent
of GDP by 1992/93 and domestic investments from 25 percent to less than 11 percent of GDP.



4
LEGACIES oF THE PAST AND KEY DEVELOPMENT ISSUES
11.   The oil-led boom and the ensuing period of inadequate adjustment left Cameroon with
several structural imbalances which today have become major obstacles to its long-term
development. The principal legacies from that period which constitute major development
challenges relate to: (i) an overextended, inefficient and deficit-ridden public sector; (ii) a
deteriorating physical and human capital base and declining productivity; and (iii) deepening
poverty.
12.   Over-dimensioed4  inefficient and deficit-tidden public sector. Fiscal problems
remained unaddressed throughout the period and 6-7 years of large budget deficits have resulted
in a steady accumulation of both internal and external payment arrears. While revenues fell even
more than nominal GDP total expenditures were not reduced in parallel thus aggravating fiscal
disequilibria further and bringing the overall budget deficit to about 8.5 percent of GDP in
1992/93. On the revenue side, the decrease in oil revenues was not matched by improvements in
non-oil revenues. Efforts to raise non-oil tax revenues, which were below 13 percent of non-oil
GDP in 1992/93, have been undermined by the highly distorted, narrowly-based tax structure, and
exacerbated by a weak tax administration and pervasive tax evasion. Unprecedented reductions in
civil servant salaries went into effect in January and again in November 1993, leaving the total
wage bill in December 1993 at 60 percent of the level 12 months earlier. While the wage
reductions alleviated some of the pressures on the fiscal situation, it did not stop the mounting
financial imbalances. To establish the premises for sustainable, non-inflationary growth and to
ensure appropriate outlays for key development oriented activities, the overall budget deficit will
need to be reduced sharply both through a significant increase in non-oil revenues and measures
to reduce the size, cost and inefficiency of the public sector.
13.   As the available financial resources grew tighter, the inefficiencies of the central
administration and the parapublic sector became increasingly apparent. The fiscal adjustments
primarily affected investment outlays and non-wage current expenditures. The wage bill remained
unchanged until 1993 while outlays on materials and supplies were reduced by 50 percent from
1988/89 to 1992/93 and public investments were reduced from 5.1 percent of GDP to below 3
percent. The drastic 55 percent reduction in civil servant (base) salaries in 1993 further
demotivated and added to the disillusion of an already ill-organiz,-i and inefficient central
administration. Budget allocations and outlays for maintenance were insufficient to prevent a
significant depreciation in infrastructure and capital structures such as roads and port facilities,
and public services in education and health could no longer r.leet essential, basic needs. The
multitude of public enterprises (PEs) created during the oil-boom, many of which are highly
inefficient and/or technically bankrupt, have become a very significant burden on public finances
and on the economy at large as they have crowded-out private investment and initiative. The
magnitude of this burden is exemplified by the estimated budgetary costs of the 25 largest PEs
under performance contracts during the period 1990-92 which amounts to approximately CFAF
450 billion, about 5 percent of GDP. To enable an appropriate maintenance of economic
infrastructure and adequate delivery of basic public services, the Government will need to



S
drastically improve efficiency of the central administration through retrenchment from productive
sectors and refocused efforts in essential areas of public goods.
14.   Deteriorating capital base and declining productive capacity. Neglect of traditional and
new productive activities, deteriorating infrastructure and insufficient attention to the human
resource base, have reduced Cameroon's production capacity signifcantly over the past 7-8 ycars.
Heavy-handed public intervention in the traditional cash crop sectors (cocoa and coffee), together
with unfavotable price developments, has led to declining productivity and reduced output in
these sub-sectors by 50-55 percent since 1987/88. Oil production and proven reserves have
declined steadily as a result of inappropriate regulatory and incentives framework for exploration
and exploitation efforts. Following a faltered attempt to restructure the financial sector, a
combination of a deteriorating loan portfolio, non-service of government debt and substantial
capital flight prior to the devaluation, has again brought the banking system to the verge of
collapse with little room to provide effective financial intermediation. The momentous increase in
public-financed infrastructure in the 1980s largely benefited areas non-essential to the country's
economic development and reduced the government's ability to ensure proper maintenance of
essential economic and social infrastructures. Finally, the investmer.t in human resources
development has declined significantly over the past decade. While primary school enrollment
remains relatively high, estimated at 83 percent in 1992, high repetition and dropout rates
underscore serious problems of efficiency and availability of resources. In conjunction with
inadequate opportunities for vocational training and lack of conformity between higher education
and the economy's needs, the pool of skilled labor has shrunk. Health care delivery has
deteriorated, both in rural and urban areas.
15.   Poverty. Based on its social indicators, Caneroon still ranks favorably compared to
surrounding sub-Saharan countries. Nevertheless, 7-8 years of economic crises and a worsening
fiscal situation, have taken their toll on the key social indicators. A decade ago about a fourth of
the population of Douala and Yaounde lived below the poverty line and there is every indication
that urban poverty has increased substantially since. While even less is known about the extent of
rural poverty, it has probably also been incraasing at least until the recent devaluation.
Unemployment is high among the urban population and is particularly acute amo-ig women and
youth; a survey carried out in late 1993 estimates unemployment in Yaounde, the capital, at about
25 percent. In the rural areas, poverty and unemployment have been on the rise due to the decline
in agriculture output. Malnutrition is recurrent among rural women and children especially in the
arid north. This problem, in addition to widespread adult female illiteracy and poor health care
delivery, is reflected in the high rates of maternal (300 per 100,000 births) and infant (96 per 1000
births) mortality. High fertility rates and population growth (estimated at 3 percent per annum)
and continued cuts in public expenditures will put further pressure on already scarce resources
allocated to health and education and worsen conditions for the poor.
DEVALUATION AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
16.    On January 12, 1994, the Govermnent of Cameoon, along with its partner countries in
the CFA zone, decided to realign the parity of the CFA Franc from 50 CFA/FF to 100 CFA/FF.



6
To ensure the success of the devaluation, the Government of Cameroon has adopted a new
macroeconomic program whose main -ibjective is to secure the country's international
competitiveness and to return the economy on to a sustainable growth path. The underlying
reform program, supported by an IMF Standby Arrangement (approved on March 14, 1994),
aims to: (i) bring inflation to a level below 5 percent from 1995/96 onwards, following initial
adjustments in relative prices; (ii) attain sustainable real GDP growth of about 5 percent per
annum from 1995/96, primarily led by improved competitiveness and export performance; and (iii)
quickly achieve primary and, eventually, overall budget surplus to enable increased domestic
savings, reduce the current account balance deficit and finance an increasing share of domestic
investments.
17.   Observations covering the first 3-5 months after the devaluation suggest that
implementation of the stabilization phase of the government's economic program has succeeded in
controlling inflation, although stippages have occurred with respect to fiscal performance.
Inflation is substantially lower than anticipated. Based on a consumer price index, CPI, established
for Yaounde (CPI = 100 on January 12, 1994), the general price level peaked in the last week of
March 1994, at which point the index reached 128. By late April, many prices had fallen, bringing
the index down to 120-21. Reports from missions to the field and selective information all point
to a significant and swift reaction in the agricultural sub-sectors, particularly cocoa, coffee and
cotton, along with sharp rises in exports towards Nigeria. )ost-devaluation interviews carried out
with a number of manufacturing and agro-processing industries confirmed a more optimistic
outlook which could translate into increased output and employment within the coming 2-3
quarters when the impact of the next harvest season works itself through. Furthermore,
information from the pre-shipment inspection company in place point to a somewhat larger-than-
envisaged drop in imports over the first 34 months of 1994. However, fiscal revenues in general
and customs revenues in particular are well below expected levels over the first three months of
1994. This is explained, in part, by a delayed implementation of the tax and tariff reforms along
with a sharper-than-anticipated fall in the volume of imports and a smaller increase in nominal
incomes. It is expected that revenue performance will improve significantly as the reforn
measures take hold and the economy starts growing.  The Government has also been
disappointingly slow in assuring expeditious and appropriate financial accounting information on
key pubtic enterprises.
C. GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM
18.   Breaking with past policies, the Government's new economic program covers three key
areas: (i) re-dimensioning and strengthening efficiency of the public and parapublic sectors; (ii)
improving the incentives framework for productive and production-supporting sectors; and (di)
adoptLng poverty alleviating measures.



7
RE-DIMENsIoING AND IWROVING EFFICIENCY OF PUBLIC SECTOR
i) Public Resource Management
19.   Fiscal adjustments and improved resource managemet't constitute the backbone of the
government's efforts to reduce financial imbalances and to restore economk% growth. To attain a
rapid turnaround in the primary fiscal balance and eventually to establish an overall budget
surplus, the Government aims to mobilize more public sector resources and to manage them
better. Key measures involve: (i) tax and tariff reform; (ii) continued wage restraint, with
increases in nominal wages and salaies contingent upon successful implementation of the civil
service reform; (iii) significant increases in current non-wage expenditures and improved
allocation of those expenditures among sectors; and (iv) substantial improvements in the
programming and execution of public investments.
20.   Tax and Tariff Reform. To enable an adequate provisioning of public services and to
reduce the overall deficit of the central government, a key objective of the recently adopted
economic recovery program is to raise non-oil revenue from 13 percent of non-oil CiDP in
1993/94 to 17 percent in 1996197. To achieve these objectives, the Goverrnent is implementing a
comprehensive UDEAC-wide tax and ta-iff reform and is improving the administrative capacity of
the tax and customs authorities. The tax and tariff reform includes the introduction of a value
added tax and simplification of tariff structures and reduction of rates, and the elimination of
exei. ptions benefiting certain goods and certain companies. An in-depth reform of the income
taxation system, aimed at simplifying and lowering the rate structure and at broadening the tax
base, is scheduled to take effect as of July 1, 1995. As part of the UDEAC reform, the
Government has repealed provisions of the Investment Code, granting tariff and sales tax
exemptions, as of July 1, 1994. Moreover, the Government has established a complete inventoty
of enterprises enjoying special tax treatment under 'Convention dEtablissement' status, which
will be re-negotiated before December 31, 1995. With respect to public enterprises, the
Government has decided to elininate all tax and tawiff exemptions and subject these enterprises to
the general tax regime before end-December 1994.
21. Wage Restraint and Civil Serviee Refornm The Government has already taken a number
of decisive steps to reduce the v.age bill and, at the same time, improve the efficiency of civil
service and its ability to provide adequate public services. The wage cuts effected in 1993 enable
the Govermnent to contain the civil service wage bill at about CFA 220 billion in 1993/94, or
about 7.5 percent of GDP, down from CFA 275 billion in 1992/93, about 10.5 percent of GDP. It
is envisaged that the wage bill will be reduced further, to about CFA 191 billion in 1994/95, or 5.5
percent of GDP, and that it will be maintained below that level in the foreseeable future. To
achieve this objective and, at the same time, improve the efficiency of the civil service, the
Governent has accelerated the implementation of the administrative and institutional reform
program. Under this program, organizational and staffing reviews have already been conducted in
all ministerial departments. Organization and staffing plans are being developed on the basis of
these reviews. At this point, complete studies and staffing plans have been drawn up and adopted
for 8 ministries and the Government has started implementation for four of those ministries. As



8
part of this process, the Government has prepared a general outline defining how excess staff will
be laid off, and the budgetary costs and savings of these staffing reductions. Implementation of
this program will begin with the 1994/95 fiscal year and the Government is seeking external
financial support to this effect. .urthermore and with a view to improve the efficiency of the
central administration, the Government is revising the statute for the civil service which it expects
to adopt shortly.
22.   Other Current Expenditures To enable the central administration to function properly
and to provide adequate basic services to the population, the Government realizes it is essential
that an increasing proportion of total outlays be allocated for non-wage current expenditures and,
within those expenditures, that an increasing portion be appropriated for goods and services in
sectors essential to the country's long-term development - i.e., primary and secondary education,
health, and agriculture and the maintenance of transport infrastructure. Contrary to the past, the
Governmant, after discussions with the Bahk, has proposed to increase non-wage current
expenditure budget appropriations for the Ministry of National Education (rrimary and
secondary), Ministry of Health, Ministry of Agriculture, and the Ministry of Transport and Public
Works by 30 percent in the (draft) Loi de Finances for 1994/95 compared to that in 1993/94.
Furthermore, to make sure that budgeted expenditures in these key sectors are actually held in
full, the Govemment has instructed the Ministry of Finance to assign first priority to these outlays
in its execu.ion of the Treasury cash budget.
23.   Public Investment Programming. In preparing the public investment program (PIP) for
1994/95-1997/98, the Government committed itself to increase the domestically financed part of
the investment budget threefold during the period (compared to 1993/94) and to raise the share of
education, health, agriculture and infrastructure in total investments significantly The public
investtnent budget for 1994/95 also reflects these priorities: the government's financing
contribution is up from CFAF 11 billion in 1993/94 to CFA 20 billion in 1994/95 and the sector
allocation has been biased towards the development-oriented sectors. Looking ahead, the
Government intends to strengthen the entire process of public investment programming as welt as
the monitoring of the execution of public investments. Regarding the progranuning process, the
key steps will include: (i) establishment of an overall level of public investments based on a
consistent framework of macroeconomic objectives (such as growth rate, budget deficit, level of
indebtedness); (ii) the distribution of investments among sectors will be determined based on a
comprehensive development strategy; and (iii) the i .rra-sectoral allocations of investments and
project selection will be made based on defined sector strategies and on criteria such as economic
and financial rates of return. To enable this process and the steps outlined to take place in a
coherent and transparent fashion every year, the Governu -nt will provide the departnents in the
line ministries with clear guidelines in this respect (including selection criteria, format for
presentation of projects, etc.) and empower the central department in the Ministty of Plan with
sufficient clout to carry out the necessary arbitration.



9
ii) Public Enterprise Reform
24.   The Government has set out its new public enterprise (PE) sector reform policy along with
an action plan in a Sector Policy Declaration, adopted in June 1994 as a condition for Board
presentation of the proposed ERC, which marks a break with past policies in that it explicitly
acknowledges the need for the retrenchment of the public sector from ecoiioti;c activities. The
overiding objective of the PE reform program is to dive.t all the public enterprises currently
engaged in production activities as well as commercial service activities while improving the
performanc and the monitoring of those remaining in the public portfolio. To this effect, the
Sector Poli-y Declaration outlines the criteria defining PEs to be divested and the ones to remain
in the state portfolio. The Sector Policy Declaration also establishes that the Governent, every
year, adopts and publishes a list of at least 10 public enterprises for which a privatization and/or
liquidation process will be set in motion. The flust list of PEs to be privatized and/or liquidated
will be published before the effectiveness of the proposed ERC. The Government has already
conveyed its intention to gradually bring private equity participation into the state oil monopoly,
SNH.
25.   To enable an expeditious, efficient and transparent process of divestiture and monitoring
of public enterprises, the Sector Policy Declaration also outlines the need to change the current
inst.iutional framework for PE reform, and to establish a powerful and autonomous unit which
will be responsible for the implementation of PE reform as well as the supervision and monitoring
of the enterprises remaining in the public portfolio. The entity will be staffed with a small team of
professionals reputed for their integrity and experience in business management. In the meantime,
and to improve efficiency and transparency in the sector, the Government intends to grant greater
autonomy and accountability to the managers of public enterprises. Among other tools, private
equity participation and private management contracts will be used to enhance the performance of
these enterprises. Moreover, beginning in 1994 all public enterprises are required to prepare
certified accounts annually and will be subject to annual audits carried out by qualified auditing
firms. In addition, since March 1994, the 17 largest public enterprises will be requested to submit
quarterly cash-flow statements to the Ministry of Finance and as of end-December 1994, these
enterprises will also produce provisional profit and loss accounts every six months. Gradually,
over the next two years, all public enterprises will be required to comp!y with generally accepted
accounting standards and improve their intemal reporting system.
STRENGTHEN PRODUCTION CAPACITY
i) Trade and Price Reform
26.   The Government realizes that Cameroon's growth potential can only be exploited in fill
through economic policies which are export-oriented and allow domestic markets for all goods
and services to finction freely and with a minimum of Government intervention. Thus, the
Government has embarked on a comprehensive trade and tariff reform. A simplified and less
distorted tariff structure (consisting of only four tariff rates) has been in effect since February
1994 and all remaining quantitative restrictions on merchandise imports were abolished at the



10
same time. To complete the liberalization on the import side, all remaining import licenses --
required for imports of products such as tea, maize, rice, edible oil, sugar and textiles - have also
been eliminated and Government's trade regime (i.e., "Programme Gen6ral des Echanges") has
been revised accordingly. In order to mitigate the impact of the corrective price adjustments in the
wake of the devaluation, taxes and tariffs on rice, wheat/flour/bread, sugar, and vegetable oil have
been reduced (suspended in the case of rice and wheat) for a temporary period of 6 months. As
of July 1, 1994, these products will again be subject to normal taxation.
27.   The Government also intends to complete the process of domestic retail price deregulation
initiated in 1988/89. All price controls on goods and services were abolished in January 1994,
with the exception of petroleum products, medicines, textbooks, and monopoly public utility rates
(electricity, water, public transport, maritime services and port fees). Prices for public utilities
(electricity and water), public transportation and petroleum products will be closely monitored
and the Government will ensure that productivity gains and cost savings are translated into price
adjustments at the consumer level. To ensure that the benefit of the devaluation is passed-on to
the producers, minimum producer prices for cocoa and coffee have been doubled for the
rem'ainder of the current crop marketing year, while the producer price for cotton has been raised
by more than 50 percent; the less-than-full pass-through of the devaluation in the cotton sector
reflects the decision to try to restore and assure financial equilibrium in the processing and
marketing parastatal, SODECOTON, by granting it higher margins.
(ii) Agriculture Sector
28.   The Government's overall strategy for the agriculture sector aims at: (i) strengthening the
incentives for the private producers of primary commodities and of transformed products through
ful liberalization of the sector, and (ii) leaving all productive activities to the private sector, while
improving the efficiency of public intervention in the few areas which are crucial to a well-
functioning productive environment.
29.   The production and marketing of non-traditional export crops and arabica coffee has been
futly liberalized and the Govermment intends to do likewise in the case of robusta coffee, cocoa
and cotton. As far as cocoa and robusta coffee are concemed, the Government intends to
completely abolish the current system of "reference" prices for producers and marketing margins
("couits incompressibles") before the start of the 1994/95 marketing season. In the meantime and
to ensure that the benefits of the devaluation were passed on to the producers, the 'reference'
prices for cocoa and robusta coffee have been doubled. With respect to cotton, the Government
intends to graduatly liberalize the sector and to introduce private capital participation in
SODECOTON. In line with its new PE reform policy, the Government intends to accelerate the
divestiture process with the objective of disengaging from productive activities in the agricultural
sector and allow the private sector to take over. The enterprises to be privatized are currently
being identified and, among those, divestiture efforts are expected to focus on those with the
largest impact on the economy and public finances.



(iii) Forestry Sector
30.   To ensure a more efficient and transparent management of Cameroon's forest resources,
the Government has outlined a new policy with respect to the sector in a Policy Declaration. A
new law was drafted to implement this policy but was s6bstantially revised by the Parliament
before it was promulgated in January 1994. The law as approved and adopted contains a number
of provisions which are not consistent with the government's policy. Consequently, the
Government intends to propose amendments that will bring the law back into conformity with the
policy for consideration and adoption by the Parliament during its session in November 1994. In
the meantime, an implementation decree for the Forestry Law is being prepared in consultation
with the Bank, and its adoption is a condition for effectiveness of the proposed Economic
Recovery Credit.
31.   The present Law provides an adequate policy framework for the implementation of
biodiversity conservation and forest management programs with local participation, both in the
State forests and on forested land in the public domain. It provides an improved regulatory
framework for the management of bushfires. The weaknesses of the Law lie in the lack of
transparency of proposed procedures for awarding logging concessions, in the excessive role
envisaged for State institutions, and in the perverse economic effects of the proposed ban on log
exports. The Government is aware of these weaknesses and intends to correct them at the earliest
possible opportunity.
(iv) Petroleum Sector
32.   To increase petroleum production and to improve the efficiency and resource allocation of
the energy sector at large, the Government is currently preparing a new energy reform policy
which will be finalized by September 1994 with support from IDA. While still under preparation,
the broad lines of the envisaged sector reform are already established and aim at (i) reducing the
cost of oil products, (ii) securing an appropriate level of fiscal revenues from the sector, (iii)
improving transparency in the sector and (iv) improving the incentives system for exploration and
production of petroleum.
33.   The level and structure of petroleum product prices have been revised not only  in
response to the devaluation but also to reduce price distortions between different products and to
minimize the impact of the devaluation on consumers. In particular, para-fiscal charges, such as
the contributions to the stabilization and equalization funds ("p6r6quation"), have been abolished.
Effective March 1994, petroleum products, with the exception of kerosene, are subject to
standard customs and indirect tax regime as weli as the specific tax on petroleum products. While
allowing an increase in tax receipts, these measures have made it possible to contain the increase
in the retail price of petroleum products and thus limit the impact of the devaluation on
transportation costs. To ensure that retail prices reflect developments on the world markets, the
Government introduced a mechanism of quarterly price adjustments, effective April 1994.



12
34.   Furthermore, the Government intends to complete the liberalization of the petroleum
sector over the next two years. The SNH monopoly over crude oil supply wili be eliminated
before end-June 1995, thereby allowing the refinery to import crude directly at world market
prices. Subsequently, the monopolies of SONARA (over refined product) and SCDP (over
distribution) will be abolished before end-June 1996; henceforth, petroleum distribution
companies would be free to import directly and contract out transport services on a competitive
basis. The Government intends to implement a number of measures aiming at improving the
efficiency and transparency of the petroleum sector. Along with the other public enterprises,
SNH, SONARA and SCDP will be required to prepare annually certified accounts within six
months of the close of their financial year and will be subject to annual audits carried out by
qualified auditing firms. Moreover, given the importance of oil revenue to government finance,
the SNH is, as of January 1994, required to produce consolidated quarterly statements of all
financial operations carried out in its own name and in the name of the Government.
Furthermore, the Government also intends to bring private equity participation into SNH and the
other state enterprises in the petroleum sector. Finally, the Government has set out to review the
contractual arrangements currently in place with petroleum companies with a view to establishing
an incentives framework conducive to increased exploration and production efforts. This will be
accomplished before end-1994.
(v) Transport Sector Reform
35.   After years of inadequate maintenance of essential transport network and deteriorating
financial and technical performance of transport public enterprises, the Government has adopted a
new strategy for the transport sector. The overall objective of this strategy is to restore transport
efficiency through sector-wide reform, rational investment and maintenance planning to be carried
out in several phases supported by distinct operations over a ten-year period. The strategy aims
to contribute directly to establishing competitiveness and growth by making the transport system
more efficient, thereby reducing producer costs, and eliminating the distortions it is currently
causing in the public finance and the financial systems. Sustainable transport development in a
policy based, coherent sector-wide framework supported by donors and Government - as opposed
to the past unsuccessful and uncoordinated project-by-project sub-sector approach - is another
major objective of the strategy, which will involve all the key transport sub-sectors, institutions
and investments.
36.   The specific objectives of the strategy for transport are to: (i) improve extenal efficiency
of the transport system, including the maritime and port apparatus, as well as the domestic road,
rail and airport management systems, and promote participation of the private sector in transport
enterprises and road maintenance; (ii) reduce PE deficits and losses and prevent the creation of
additional domestic arrears; (iii) strengthen sector management and public sector perfommance
through reorganization of the sector management institutions (Ministries of Public Works and
Transports), local capacity building, and restructuring of key transport enterprises; (iv) improve
resource mobilization through harmonization of road taxes and better road financing mechanisms;
(v) establish and implement improved rehabilitation and maintenance of transport infiastructure to



'3
reduce the high cost of transport; and (vi) facilitate transit through refoms in customs procedures
and improved road transport.
(vi) Human Resources Development
37.   To establish the agenda for the preparation of new eduaion sector investments, the
Government is conuitted to organizing a national debate on education sector policy (Etats
G(ntraux) by the end of 1994. Given the poor state of educational data, the Government will
undertake studies in 1994, to identify the most pressing social sector/education issues and serve as
an input for developing an education sector development program. The Government intends to
give higher priority to basic and vocational education, involving: (i) monitoring the execution of
central govermnent budget allocations for education; (u) increasing the primay education budget;
and (iui) increasing budgets for pedagogic materials at all levels of education. The Govermnent
will agree anually with IDA upon the composition of the investment budget in education to
ensure that it emphasizes the quality of primay and secondary education and the relevance of
vocational training to the labor market needs. The Govenunent is also determined to cotinue the
process of redefining its role in the financing and management of the teaching profession atrd that
of private education.
38.   While the health status of Cameroon's population has improved considerably over recent
decades, infectious diseases, malaria, intestinal parasites, sldn diseases, traumas, and nutritional
disorders remain serious problems; and sexually transmitted diseases, including AIDS, are a
growing threat. Over the past 1S years, Govenment policy bas emphaized curative care and
hospital construction at the expense of preventive services, while marked disequilibria emerged in
health sector management and the referral system lrgely broke down. Confronted with these
problems the Govemment approved a new Primary Health Care Policy in December 1992. In
implementing this policy the Goverunent is committed to: decentralizing health service delivery
and management; sharing the financing and management of health care with beneficiaries; and
implementing an essential drugs policy. In March 1993, the Government also published a national
population policy. Through this policy the Government is committed to: facilitating access to
voluntary family planning services; ensuring the availability of information and education
programs conceming contraceptive methods, sexually transmitted diseases (including AIDS),
reproductive health, and causes of sterility; promoting responsible parenthood through
educational efforts; and improving research and coordination to ensre efficiency and popular
participation in the implementation of the policy.
POVERTY ALLEVUATION
39.   The economic decline during the past 7-8 years (a decline of per capita GDP of 55 percent
in total), with its attendant increase in poverty painfully demonstrates the importance of restoring
growth as the front-line defense against poverty. It is clear that the legacy of policies pursued
before the devaluation has done more to deepen and spread poverty than will the specific impact
of the devaluation on certain groups. Thus, the entire thrust of the government's program -



14
beginning with the devaluation and strengthened by the measures proposed here, aim to combat
poverty.
40.   Nonetheless, the devaluation and the ensuing adjustment process wil affect the various
social groups differently and unevenly. The rural population involved in production and, more
generally, the tradeable goods sector should benefit from the devaluation almost imnediately. In
contrast and in conjunction with the recent wage cuts and the envisaged reduction in the civil
service, the devaluation will adversely affect real incomes in the nontradeable sectors, in particular
that part of the primarily urban population whose livelihood depends on spending by public
sector employees. While the improvement in the country's international competitiveness and a
general liberalization of the economy, including the labor market, should lead to higher income
levels and provide new opportunities to all social groups, the Government sees a need for
targeted measures to alleviate the transitory hardships experienced by the poorest segments as a
result of the adjustment process.
41.   To alleviate these problems and to lay the groundwork for subsequently addressing
structural poverty, the Government has already taken a number of specific measures. First, to
mitigate the impact of the corrective price adjustment on wage earners' purchasing power, trade
liberalization has been combined with the phasing out of stabilizatior. tax mechanisms and the
additional temporary reduction of tariffs and taxes on four main staples: rice, flour, sugar and
palm oil. The temporary reduction in tariffs on these four staples will be abolished as of July 1,
1994 and price adjustments thereafter will be limited to the range of the tariffs imposed (i.e.,
between 10 and 20 percent). The possible adverse impact on the vulnerable poor is expected to
be partly mitigated by employment-creating and labor-intensive activities currently being launched
by the Government. Second, the level of non-wage expenditures for health and education has
been raised; this will also allow for the strengthening of basic health services and primaty
education, particularly in rural areas. Third, the Government has designed a CFAF 17.2 billion
Eimergency Action program (EAP) as an integrated part of its adjustment program.
42.   Starting immediately and covering the 18 month period of the main program, the EAP will
take over certain unfunded components of Cameroon's Social Dimensions of Adjustment (SDA)
Program: (i) the SDA Technical Coordination Committee (CTCIDSA), which will manage the
implementation of the EAP; (ii) the National Employment Fund, which promotes employmnent
through counseling, vocational training, and support for micro-enterprises; (iii) a household
survey to monitor social evolution with a view to preparing poverty-related activities; and (iv) an
expanded education component. These components, amounting to CFAF 8. 1 billion, constitute
the Social Action Program (SAP) prepared in the context of the proposed E:RC. In addition, the
EAP is to consist of urban sanitation operations, including waste collection; extension of water
and electricity services; road and gutter maintenance carried out through labor-intensive
techniques, both to create employment and improve the urban environment; and health services in
rural areas, with support to local pharmacies and the purchase of essential and generic medicines.
The Government, following consultations with the World Bank, has incorporated the nature of
these targeted actions in the draft Loi de Finance and their financing in the Tableau des
Operations Financieres for 1994/95.



15
D. MEDIUM TERM PROSPECTS AND EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
MEDIUM TERM PROSPECTS
43.   The government's economic recovety program is expected to end the recession and return
the country to a path of positive real growth. Real GDP growth is projected to average about 5
percent per annum from 1996 onwards primarily as a result of improved performance in the
tradeables sector (such as coffee, cocoa, agro-processing industries and light manufacturing)
sustained by increased investment levels as confidence is re-established. Public sector investments
are projected to recover gradually from 2.2 percent of GDP in 1992/93 to about 3.5 percent in
1996197. In response to the envisaged reforms of the trade regime, the financial system and public
enterprise sector, and as the public finance situation is brought under control, private investment
is expected to rise from 8.7 percent of GDP in 1992/93 to about 12-13 percent in 1996/97. Owing
to a serious external debt overhang, most of the increase in investments will have to be financed
by domestic savings which will need to increase from 9.8 percent of GDP in 1992/93 to about 20
percent in 1996/97. Private savings will be stimulated by the recovery of econornic growth and the
improvement in the external trade position. Public sector savings are projected to turn around
from a negative level in 1992/93 to about 8-9 percent of GDP in 1996/97. (See Annex IV for Key
Economic Indicators)
44.   The principal objective of fiscal policy is to generate primary surpluses and public sector
savings sufficient to cover an increasing share of the country's extemal interest obligations and to
raise public investments. It is thus expected that the primary fiscal balance will be reversed from a
deficit of 1.8 percent of GDP in 1992/93 to a surplus of almost 6 percent in 1996/97. To
produce this turnaround in the fiscal imbalance, the Government intends to increase non-oil tax
revenues from 12 percent of GDP in 1992/93 to about 16 percent in 1996/97. To achieve this,
Government will rely primarily on the replacement of a plethora of specific taxes by a turnover tax
(and, eventually, a value-added tax), and on the reduction of non-interest current expenditures
from almost 15 percent of GDP in 1992/93 to about 8 percent in 1996/97, as the relative weight
of the wage bill is expected to fall further. This will allow the Government to increase its capital
outlays which are to be directed, as a matter of priority, towards education, health, agriculture
and infrastructure maintenance.
ExTEAL FiNANCING REQuIEMENTs
45.   As shown in table 1, Cameroon's financing requirements will remain considerable over the
coming years. The Government expects that with the parity change and the implementation of the
accompanying fiscal, monetary and structural adjustment policies, the international donor
community will be favorably disposed to provide Cameroon with the temporary increase in
external financial support required to ensure successful implementation of this ambitious program
and, thereby, the country's return to a sustainable growth path. Timeliness in the availability of
external financing is of the essence or else the stabilization effort may be jeopardized and the
impact on the vulnerable poor could be serious. To this effect, the IMF is supporting the
government's program under a Standby Arrangement, in the amount of SDR 81.1 million, which



16
was approved on March 14, 1994. The Paris Club convened later in March and granted
Cameroon rescheduling on relatively generous terms. The Government of France has also made
large financial commitments to support the progran, and it is expected that the African
Development Bank, the European Union, Switzerland and a number of other bilateral donors will
be prepared to extend financial assistance. Given its external debt burden, its recent eligibility to
IDA funds, and plans to start discussions shortly on a Policy Framework Paper, Cameroon was
also accepted as a beneficiary of the Special Program for Africa (SPA) during the meetings in
April 1994.
46.   An improvement in Cameroon's economic situation, restored investor confidence, and
implementation of the economic recovery program should provide the appropriate setting for
increased project and budget financing as well as for resumption of foreign direct investments and
the anticipated return of capital which left the countty before the devaluation. However,
Cameroons external debt service will continue to weigh heavily on the balance of payments. For
the period 1993/94-1995/96, currently identified external financing amounts to about US$3.0
billion, of which US$2.5 billion has been forthcoming in the form of exceptional financing (debt
relief and exceptional budgetary support). The Paris Club rescheduled Cameroon's current
maturities of eligible bilateral debt on Enhanced Toronto terms (while arrears were accorded
Houston terms). Cameroon will also seek an agreement with its commercial banks to restructure
outstanding claims, the bulk of which has not been serviced since 1989. However, this agreement
is only expected to be reached in FY95; until then, Cameroon will defer its debt service to its
commercial creditors. Despite this relatively high level of rescheduling, the identified additional
exceptional financing is still less than expected debt service payments and Cameroon will need
another US$886 million to fuilly close the financing gap over the period FY94-96. The proposed
Bank Group Strategy (paras. 52-82) will provide essential financial support to this end while
responding to the country's development priorities.



17
TADs 1: CAmotooN FIANCIN REQURMENUtTS FY94-FO (US$ Mwou)
US $ Million                          FY94          F9 5                      FY 94-6
A. Requirements                       2.110         1.096                      on
Current Account Deficit
excluding interest due on public debt  95        (149)         (205)        (258)
Debt Service due on Public debt     939          1,223         965          3,127
of which interest                  483          480           482          1,446
of which amortzation               456          743           482          1,681
Reduction in Arrears                1,062                                    1,082
Central Bank Reserves                14           22            104          139
S. Resources Identified & Committed   1.902                       638
Public project financing             95           114           142          351
Private Sector Flows (net)          (11)          74            130          193
Program financing                   241            0            0            241
Resch & Debt relief obtained        1,577         459           363         2,399
C. Gross Financing Gap (A-B)           208          450                         886
IDA: ERCfTSAC/AGSALIJ5th Dim         75           112           117          304
Other Program Financing & SPA        133          338           111          582
0. Residual Financing Gap               0            0             0         
EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
47.   With a relatively narrow export base of primary commodities, the Cameroonian economy
is vulnerable to developments in the world market prices for its main exports (petroleum, coffee,
cocoa and timber) and will remain dependent on foreign savings to maintain needed levels of
investment.
48.   With petroleum accounting for about 50 percent of the country's exports and 25 percent
of budgetary revenues, Cameroon's economy and its foreign exchange earnings are obviously
highly dependent on world price developments for petroleum. Following a period of fairly stable
world prices since 1991, a sharp decline in oil prices occurred in the third quarter of 1993. Oil
prices are expected to persist at that level for another 8-12 months, with the World Bank
forecasting a nominal increase of about 8 percent per annum, on average, for the remainder of
the decade. In spite of relatively encouraging price forecasts for oil, export and fiscal revenues are
projected to decrease significantly as Cameroon's oil production is expected to continue to decline
sharply, reflecting past lack of investments in exploratory activities due to inadequate incentives.
If exploration efforts were to pick-up anew, however, it is possible that significant reserves could
be found and brought on-stream within the next 4-8 years.



18
49.   Three other primary commodities - cocoa, coffee and timber - account for another 25
percent of Cameroon's export eanings. Timber (sapelli) prices are projected to increase by about
4 percent per annum over the medium term. Paying due respect to environmental concerns and
observing an optimal exploitation of forest reserves in Cameroon, the quantity of timber cannot be
expected to increase significantly. World market prices for both cocoa and coffee are projected to
increase by an annual average of 13-15 percent in 1994-95; thereafter and for the rest of the
decade, coffee prices are expected to increase by an annual average of 8 percent while cocoa
prices are expected to be much less buoyant. Contrary to what is the case for both petroleum and
timber, production and export quantities for cocoa and coffee are expected to increase
significantly over the next 2-3 years as the beneficial effects of the devaluation play themselves
through.
50.   Cameroon's prospects are also clouded by its foreign debt service and its dependence on
foreign financial assistance. External donors provide financing to ensure that basic public and
social services are delivered. Furthermore, foreign donors bear the brunt of servicing and
rescheduling a large part of the government's external debt. Given the right economic policies and
in view of the country's growth potential, this dependency could be eliminated over the medium
term. Foreign direct investments could reach significant proportions - particularly in agro-
processing industres and in the petroleum sector. However, the most important source of funds
could come from Camneroonian entrepreneurs and capitalists - initially through halting capital
flight, and eventually through a reflow of the capital which was transferred abroad prior to, and in
anticipation of, the devaluation. The key determinant for these private capital inflows to. resume
and replace foreign aid is the government's credibility and transparency in economic management.
The swiftness and determination with which the Government carries out the current economic
reform program wiHl be the important factor in re-establishing its credibility. Equally important,
beyond a certain period of time external aid/financial flows will no longer be forthcoming unless
the Government has taken decisive and far-reaching measures to address its main structural
problems.
51.   On balance, medium-tern prospects with respect to the key external factors affecting the
Cameroonian economy allows for a cautiously optimistic outlook. Price forecasts for petroleum,
coffee and cocoa are relatively buoyant and the devaluation has brought about a renewed
willingness among donors to provide important financial assistance to Cameroon. While changes
in these external parameters could brighten or dim Cameroon's development prospects, the main
problems facing the country continue to be internal.
E. THE BANK GROUP'S COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
52.   Reinforcing the Policy Dialogue.  The level and quality of the policy dialogue has been
very uneven over the past few years and has not resulted in laying the groundwork for sustainable
development. Government's decision to embark on a stabilization and adjustment program in the
wake of the devaluation of the CFA franc is an indication of the level of improvement in the
policy dialogue which is being extended to address sector reforms. Cameroon's future success



19
will depend on its timely implementation of structural reforms and the government's willingness to
tackle complex reforms which are likely to be met by considerable resistance from powerfil
interest groups. This requires a strong leadership which is committed to change and is able to
resist the temptation to delay reforms or reverse policies. Cameroon's track record to date is
poor. However, recent commitments undertaken by the Government under the Structural
Adjustment Credit (FY94) and the proposed Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) are an indication
of government's readiness to push for institutional and sectoral reforms in a number of priority
areas. IDA can facilitate the dialogue by focusing sufficient attention to the process of change and
by providing support to government's economic recovery efforts through its lending program,
ESW and the development of a new IDA portfolio tailored to Cameroons current development
priorities.
AssIsrANcE OBJEcrsES
53. IDA's Strategy. The key macroeconomic and sector objectives of WIMAs assistance
strategy are to support government's overall objectives to attain: (a) redimensioning, focusing
and improing the public sector, through (i) a stronger mobilization and more efficient use of
public resources, the downsizing and reorganization of the civil service, and the divestiture and
restructuring of parastatals; and (ii) improving macroecononic management in such areas as
institutional reforms of the public procurement system, environmental profection and the rational
use and management of natural resources; (b) increasing productve cap&city through (i) better
macroeconomic management, deregulation and liberalization and reform of the legal and
regulatory environment; (ii) maintenance and development of basic inftastructure; (dii) supporting
development of the human resource sector; and (iv) strengthening the financi  sector, and (c)
strongly focused interventions to alleviate poverty, including improvements in the delivery of
social services to low-income groups.
REDIMENSIONING AND IROVING THE PUBLIC SECrOR
54.   Support for public enterprise reform (PE) (paras. 24-25) will be a focal point of IDA
assistance . IDA will provide the financial assistance and other support to help the Government
carry out the divestiture of key enterprises in transport under the transport sector adjustment
project (FY95) and a,.iculture under the agriculture sector adjustnent project (FY96). On civil
service reform, the Govemment intends to accelerate the implementation of the administrative and
institutional reform program (para. 21). These efforts at civil service reform will be supported
under an IDA-financed public administration reform project in FY96. On reform of the public
procurement system, Government is committed to implement long-term institutional reforms as
outlined in the Action Plan agreed with Government following the November 1993 procurement
seminar (para. 75). However, given the time-lag implicated by such far-reaching reforms, in the
interim, IDA will agree with Government at appraisal on the specific procurement requirements
for individual investment operations.



20
Table 2:Policy Matrix
IDA Assistance Stratemt FY94-97
Areas of Focus       Policy Reforms           Lending Instruments             ESW and Related Activities
1) Redlmensioning,    (1) Improve            FY-                      -    FY9-:
Focusing and         macroeconomic           .   E                                G
Improving the Public   management, including     ERC                              CEM
Sempov               the revision of the public   I________ -                     PF     t
procurement system      *  Successful implementation of the  SPupr te   reve
- Better government    (ii) Adopt a sectoral policy  economic reform program      Agricusture sector review
functioning          declaration for PE Reform   X  Transport Sector Adjustment   Constrants to petrobum
(Uii) Pursue implementation  Credit (TSAC)                  sector growth
of  ciil s rvic     refrm  _ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ___ a  Urban   Sector Strategy
- Reducing size of   of Nivit service reform  |fYe
public sector        program                        .-               ;Nt
(iv) Increase resource  *  Agrcultural Sector Adjustment    *  CPPR
- Strengthening      mobilization                Credit (AGSAL.)              *  Counti'y Environmental
management of        (v) Outline an          *  Public Admnistraton Rehmi         Strategy Paper
resources in public  environmental strategy      Proec                        *  Donor Meetg
domain                    rF  - - . ;1   . *  - -- .; .;. - -;..PEReform TAPj.c-
. . .Y. . -7  .   -    1     *.Pubic Expenditure
*  Environmental Management         Review
project
*  Agnculture Research N        F9. .
*  Urban Management Project     *  Manufacturing
Development
2) iceasing          (i) Improve the Incentive                                       7797 FY5:   -.
Productive Capacit    andreg(i) Maintenance and  *  Health, Feriy and NutrNon  e  Compettveness Study
- Reducing restrictions   development of basic   Prolect                      *  Education Sector Issues
on private sector    infrastructure          *  Financial Sector Oeration
activity             (iii) Improve efficiency of   FY9:   -_-_____
urban land markets      *  Private Sector Development    F9
- Improve support    (iv) Increase non-wage      Opeation                     *  Human Resource Sector
services for productive   expenditures for health  *  Educaton Sector Project     Strategy
activity (infrastructure,   and education    *  Transport Sector Project      * Agricultural sector
human resource       (v) Improve primary health  *  Energy Project               work
development          care services           17
agriculture)         (vi) Increase access to
primary education, with  *  Women Initatie
- Provide adequate   emphasis on girls'
education and        education;
appropriate health   (vii) Promote programs
services             aimed at women
3) Poverty Allviation  (i) Assess the extent.  FY94                i" FY9: ";
- Reduce population  depth, characteristics,
growth               distribution and causes of  *  Social Action Program (ERG)  *Poverty Assessment
- Initiate long-term  poverty in Cameroon;    FY95:                          I
dialogue on poverty    (ii) Target assistance  *  Urban Sector TA
issues               strategies explicitly   IFY97:
focused on poverty     L   Poverty Ae viation
reduction;
55.   A strengthened program of assistance for urban management, with special focus on the
urban environment, will emphasize improvement in managerial capacity of local municipalities,
mobilization of local resources, development of a housing and land development policy and the



21
upgrading and maintenance of essential infrastructure and services. Progress made under this
operation will be supported under the urban management project (FY97) whose principal
objective will be to continue to support implementation of the government's urban strategy.
56.   Cameroon's long-term development depends on an efficient management of natural
resources and environment sector. The Government recognizes that reversing the trend of
resource depletion is fundamental to achieving long-term sustainable growth. The Goverunent is
preparing an Environmental Action Plan, with assistance from IDA and the UNDP. The Action
Plan will form the basis for IDA's assistance. A biodiversity/GEF project is under preparation
with Japanese grant funding. It aims at protecting fragile ecosystems by the introduction of pilot
approaches to community-based resource management around threatened forests and protected
areas. The proposed agricultural sector adjustment operation (FY95) wil also seek to halt the
degradation of natural resources by targetting actions on three important fronts: the resource
markets, the regulatory framework and the institutions needed to implement and improve it.
Given an appropriate macroeconomic environment, IDA will support goverrnent efforts to
improve institutions and the regulatory framework for the management of forestry resources
under an environmental management project (FY96). In addition, IDA would support
government's efforts to restructure the agricultural research system to make it more responsive to
clients' needs and constraints and to improve the system's financial viability through the second
agricultural research project (FY97).
Encouraging and Diversifying the Productive Sector
57.   A private sector assessment (PSA) being carried out by the Bank in FY94 will identify
the key constraints to the establishment of a favorable investment climate for private sector
investment in Cameroon. Support for private sector development will be provided under a
private sector operation (FY96) which includes the following key elements: (i) support for policy
and institutional reforms which promote private investment, including the incentive and
regulatoryframework and provide technical assistance on privatization matters and environmental
management; (ii) assistance to small- and micro- entrepreneurs as part of the approach to poverty
reduction; and (iii) support for government efforts to increase domestic and foreign private
investment in key sectors, especially agriculture and energy.  Small- and medium-size
entrepreneurs will be the focus of the urban and transport operations.
58.  In the hydro-carbon sector, IDA's assistance strategy aims at (i) increasing transparency in
the management of the sector, including partial privatization of some of the key enterprises in the
oil sector and (ii) supporting government effort to improve the incentives framework for further
exploration and development of new oil and gas fields. Given the sector's substantial investment
requirements, IDA expects to continue to place a major emphasis on increasing private sector
investment, while facilitating and coordinating the mobilization of additional resources from
external donors. Planned future IDA lending consists of an energy sector project (FY96) to
realize these objectives and to lay the groundwork for the future privatization of some of the key
parastatals in the sector (para. 34).



22
59.   The financial sector has an important role to play to support the development of the
productive sector. However, to achieve this, Government must adopt a coherent set of policies
in order to settle the arrears of the public sector to the private sector. To this effect, IDA will
provide technical assistance to the Government under a financial sector restructuring credit
(FY95). The project will assist in providing budget support, in the preparation and strengthening
of regulations and in setting the stage for the restructuring of banks.
60.   The agricultural sector is of first priority in terms of adjustment efforts given its potential
for rapid supply response. IDA's assistance aims to support government's policy in exploiting the
potential for growth offered by the sector and consists of support for macroeconomic reforns and
special sectoral interventions. These elements of the policy will serve as the basis for an
agricultuwe sector adjustment operation in FY95. The operation would target action on two
main fronts: the incentives framework and the institutions. Strengthening incentives for the
private sector to produce and invest is key to restoring growth and competitiveness in the sector.
61.   Improvement of Cameroon's extensive but deteriorating transport infrastructure is
considered another fundamental element of the enabling environment for private sector
development. The Government has adopted a transport sector reform policy and has asked IDA
to play the lead role in supporting its implementation. The transport sector adjustment operation
(FY95) will help the Govemment in laying the basis for restoring sector efficiency. Actions
envisaged under the operation would also help the Government to introduce commercial
management criteria in the sector and to improve productivity and competitiveness.  The
expansion of private sector participation in transport is expected to enhance the sustainability of
the envisaged reforms and to foster govermment retrenchment from the key public enterprises in
the sector, namely, the railways, the national airlines, the ports and the urban public transport
system. Further reforms in the sector would be supported under an investment operation, the
tranwport sector project (FY96) which would finance the first two years of a medium-term
transport investment, rehabilitation and maintenance program for the road, rail, airport and port
subsectors including institutional and regulatory system reforms and transit facilitation.
62.   Under the economic recovery program, the Government is committed to increase the level
of non-wage expenditures for health and education. This will also allow for the strengthening of
basic health services and prima.y education in urban areas, and in particular, in rural areas. In the
health sector, govermnent policy emphasizes the strengthening of family planning activities, the
improvement of primary health care services and the establishment of programs to combat
nutritional deficiencies. IDA will support the implementation of this policy through the health,
fertility and nutrition project (FY95). In the education sector, priority will be given under the
education sector project (FY96) to reorient expenditure to maintain access to primary education,
with a particular emphasis on girls' education, the restructuring of technical and vocational
training and reducing input in higher education. Longer-term follow-up to these projects will be
the subject of the human resource sector strategy (FY97).



23
Poverty Alleviation
63.  IDA's efforts to address poverty reduction encompass initiatives in a number of areas.
First, a major poverty assesment (FY 95) is under way, including a substantial participatory
component using beneficiary assessment methodologies. It aims to: (i) assess the extent, depth,
characteristics, distribution, and causes of poverty in Cameroon; (ii) articulate specific poverty-
reducing country strategies and actions across the fill range of tasks and instruments available to
the Bank in its dialogue and operations with Cameroon; and (iii) initiate a longer-term process of
dialogue on poverty issues and further assessment of poverty in the country. Second, in the
context of the ERC, the Government and IDA have agreed upon priority expenditures under the
government's Social Action Program. The program places particular emphasis on basic
education, employment support, and poverty monitoring (paras. 3942). Tird, the urban and
agriculture sector operations (paras. 55 and 56) will support the expansion of income generating
opportunities for small farmers and for small- to micro-size enterprises. Fourth, the urban
technical assistance project (FY95) will focus on the development of small- and medium-scale
enterprises to foster private sector delivery of urban services and employment generation through
labor-intensive techniques for infrastructure works and maintenance, and foster the creation of
mucro-enterprises in the supply and delivery of urban services. The dialogue on poverty reduction
covers economic performance iqsues which affect the ability of the economy to grow and create
new jobs; resource mobilization and expenditure allocation issues which affect the capacity of the
Government to meet its human resource development goals; and policy actions which aim at
improving coverage and efficiency of basic health and education services.
64.   Areas of Special Emphasi. Poverty reduction is a major area of emphasis (para 63).
This objective will be integrated into nearly all IDA operations in Cameroon. Thus health and
education sector operations will focus on increasing access to primary-level services for the poor
and women, urban and infrastructure projects will contain programs of labor-intensive works to
promote employment, and private sector development will emphasize promotion of micro-
enterprises. The promotion of women's activities and initiatives is also being addressed through
sectoral projects wherever appropriate, notably in the areas of transport, agriculture, urban
development, health, and education. The Government has adopted a population policy whose
implementation IDA intends to support under the health, fertility and nutrition project (FY95).
This policy gives priority to increasing the awareness of the impact of population growth on
Cameroon's population through education and programs to substantially increase the use of
contraceptives and reduce population growth. The promotion of women's activity and initiatives
is also being addressed within each sector project, such as the transport sector project, the
agricultural sector adjustment project and the urban sector maagement project. Institutional
capacity and administrative reform will also be approached on a cross-sectoral basis; each project
includes a sector capacity building and management strengthening component.
65.   ESW  IDA's assistance strategy will be underpinned by intensive development of ESW
and a systematic review of portfolio performance. The ESW program will increasingly use a
participatory approach through the involvement of local technical staff, and includes in FY95 (a)
the preparation of a country economic memorandum; (b) a PFP; (c) a competitiveness study-, (d)



24
the completion of the poverty assessment; (e) an agricultural sector review; (f) an urban sector
strategy note; (f) an education sector issues study; (g) assistance in the preparation of a national
environmental action plan; and (h) a Country Environmental Strategy. In FY96, the ESW
program will focus on (a) a public sector expenditure review with regular updates and follow-up;
and (b) an update of the constraints to petrol3um sector growth. In FY97, the ESW program will
focus much more on sectoral strategies to support productive activities, especially in agriculture,
manufacturing and human resources. IDA will carry out a Country Performance Review (CPPR)
in FY95 with a inii-CPPR scheduled in November 1994 as a follow-up to the portfolio
restructuring of FY94 (para. 74). Given the importance that IDA attaches to effective portfolio
management, emphasis will be in ensuring that project design applies lessons learned from past
operations in order not to repeat past mistakes and to ensure that upfront measures are taken to
address existing constraints to efficient project implementation. Greater effort will be made to
tailor project design to quality at entry and to coordination and implementation capacity within
the administration.
PRoposED LENDING LEVELS AND LENDING INSTRUMENTS
66. Lending Strategy and Program. In FY89-91, IBRD supported the Government's
adjustment efforts through the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I) which accounted for 39
percent of total commitments. Investment lending emphasized the expansion of agricultural
production through projects in livestock, agricultural extension and training, and food security.
Other sector investments were mainly oriented towards the rehabilitation of infrastructure, urban
management, economic management and the social dimensions of adjustment. Government failure
to implement SAL I delayed disbursement of the SAL's three tranches. As a result, IBRD only
made one new commitment over FY92-94 in agriculture. The recent devaluation of the CFA
franc and government's adoption of a comprehensivelforward-looking reform program in the
immediate aftermath have opened the way for more lending from the Bank group.
67.  IDA Lending Program (FY94-9;). Given Cameroon's lack of creditworthiness for IBRD
lending and its eligibility for borrowing on IDA terms, Cameroon was declared IDA-eligible in
February 1994. IDA made its first lending operation to Cameroon in FY94 under the Structural
Adjustment Credit. To date, IDA lending amounts to SDR 36.3 million for a total of one fast-
disbursing credit. In March 1994, Cameroon was granted a supplemental credit of SDR 37.1
million under the IDA Reflow Program.
68.   Adjustment scenaio. The IDA lending strategy for FY94-97 aims at helping Cameroon
to maxilize the benefits of the restoration of external competitiveness as a result of the
devaluation of the CFA franc. For FY94-97, the Country Assistance Strategy proposes an
adjustment scenario of $US 340-500 million conditioned upon the triggers outlined in para. 71 in
which adjustment lending would represent about 40 percent of total lending. Provided there is
satisfactory progress in the implementation of the stabilization and adjustment program, total
lending for FY94-97 under the adjustment scenario is expected to significantly exceed the normal
IDA allocation. Adjustment lending is expected to be phased-out after FY96 when sector and
policy issues will be dealt with in the context of sector-specific operations which will be designed



25
to take account of linkages across sectors. Sectoral adjustment lending will thus account for 26
percent of total lending in the FY94-97 portfolio. Other projects will support Government's
efforts to improve the public sector, encourage and diversitfy activities in the productive sector,
including addressing the role of the environment, human resource development and poverty
alleviation. Given that most projects will deal with issues that cut across traditional sectors, and
that they address several objectives, any classification of loans is somewhat arbitrary. However,
as an indication, 37 percent will support public management, 37 percent will aim to strengthen
productive capacity and 26 percent will help to alleviate poverty. Within this categorization, 10
percent deals with environmental issues.
69.   The proposed ERC will focus on the critical cross-sectoral policy issues on the reform
agenda, and will serve as the primary vehicle for advancing public sector adjustment and
improving the policy and regulatory environment for supporting and diversifying the productive
sector. In the absence of these reforms, the strategy calls for a base case scenario which, beyond
the ERC, would consist of investment operations in support of human resource development,
environmental protection and targeted poverty alleviation. Total IDA commitments would be
within a range of US$270-340 million for the period FY94-97 in conformity with the normal IDA
allocation. To improve the quality of health care, education and other social services, two credits
will finance a time slice of investments which are clustered around health, education and nutrition
and poverty alleviation (the health and nutrition, education sector, and the urban sector TA
projects) and are part of a PIP agreed with IDA.
70.   Further deterioration in the macroeconomic and institutional frameworks would trigger
IDA to move to a low case scenario with no adjustment lending but with investments inpoverty
alleviation, gender issues and environmentalprotection  Under the low case scenario, IDA will
place emphasis on ESW and will support government's efforts to mobilize other external financial
support for projects in health and nutrition and education. These projects will be limited in scope
and will address the most urgent needs in the sector.
71.   Triggers. Given Cameroon's poor past performance in pursuing even the most timid
reform program, progress on the following four specific triggers are essential to pursue the
adjustment scenario: (i) the satisfactory implementation of the government's economic reform
program supported under the proposed ERC; (ii) adoption of a strong reform policy for the public
enterprise sector; (iii) agreement and satisfactory implementation of a PFP; and (iv) satisfactory
progress in public procurement reform and adoption of a public procurement code satisfactoiy to
IDA. A base case scenario would be triggered by lack of progress in the implementation of the
economic reforms envisaged under the adjustment scenario but assuming continued progress on
key institutional reforms, including procurement and project implementation (see pams. 72-75).
Failure to implement either the adjustment program or the institutional reforms satisfactorily
would lead IDA to move to the low case scenario with emphasis on ESW and a limited program
of assistance (para. 70).



26
Table 3: PROPOSED LENDING PROGRAM FYO4-FYP7
LNO   SCENARO                            TiRoouER PoNs
.340-500 million
FY94: ERC                               (1) Satsfactory implementation of
FY95: Transport Sector Adjustment; Health,   govemments economic reform program as
Fertility & Nutrition: Financial Sector; Urban    measured by an increase in public savings and
ADJUSTMUEN      Sector Technical Assistance.            improved public resource allocation
ScEiuo         FY: Agriculture SECAL: Transport Sector    (2) Satisfactory progress in the reforms of the
Project Energy Sector, Public Adm. Reform    public enterprise sector
Project; Private Sector Development Project   (3) Agreement on a PFP and its satisfactory
PE Reform TA                            implementation
M.Y9: Agricultural Research It;         (4) Satisfactory progress in public procurement
Environmental Management Project: Urban    reform and adoption of a public procurement
Management                              code satisfactory to IDA
$270-340 million
FY94: ERC                               (1) Failure to achieve (1) to (3) above
BASE CASE      Y95: Health, Fertility & Nutrition      (2) Progress in Improving generic
Urban Sector TA                   implemenation problems
FMSt: Education & Training; Women Initiative  (3) Slow but steady progress on public
FY21 Poverty Alleviation: Environmental  procurement reform
Management Project
Low CASE       FY97: Poverty Alleviation, Women         (1) Failure to achieve all of the above
Initiative, Environmental Management Project
ESW
Continued dialogue with Govemment
Collaborate with donors In social sectors
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT
72.   Over FY89-93, World Bank commitments to Cameroon were distributed as follows: 37
percent for one policy-based adjustment operation (SAL I with the third tranche disbursed under
IDA terms, SAC I); 36 percent for economic infrstructure; 19 percent for agriculture; 5 percent
for human resources; and 3 percent for technical assistance. Twenty-five IDA credits and forty
loans have been fully disbursed and closed. Seven operations are under execution.
73.   Project implementation  has recurrently  been  constrained  by  government's weak
implementation capacity, deficiencies in procurement, lack of coordination and the worsering
macroeconomic environment with its negative impact on the availability of budgetary resources
for local counterpart financing. A pervasive lack of budgetary oversight and expenditure
accountability throughout the public aministration has added to these problems. Inadequate
project design did not take into account existing constraints and government capacity to deliver.
As a result, the portfolio has only been partially successful in attaining its development objectives.
Moreover, the disastrous economic and public finance situation in Cameroon over the past eight
years has firther hampered project execution. Weak project management and lack of an adequate
financial management system, including lack of transparency, have also contributed to the
difficulties encountered in portfolio implementation. A slow and complicated public procurement
process has created bottlenecks and has led to significant delays in project implementation.
Delays in compliance with SAL I conditions in part due to problems related to the overvaluation



27
of the currency precluded further Bank assistance until FY94. Overall portfolio ratings worsened
from 2.3 in FY92, to 3.0 in FY93, although the investment/disbursement ratio improved from 20
in FY92 to 24 in FY94 largely the result of the lifting of the general suspension of disbursements
in July 1993, which allowed the Bank to disburse against a backlog of requests.
Table 4:LENDo COMPOSmON: A COMPAIsoN
(in percent of total lending [number of operationsD
SECTORS                    FY8993        FY94        FY9S-97
AD.USTME?N                                  37[11       100 121      32 12
- of which Structurai                37[1]        100 12)       .[
- of which Sectoral                                           3212
INVESTMENT LENDING In agriculture, transport, energy
and finance, urban infrastructure, and TA for  58 [51    01]         47(9]
economic management
PovRTY & HUMA RESOURCES                     5 (1]        100         21 [41
TOTAL                     10017]       100[21      100(151
74.   A Country inplementation Review held in June 1993 reconmnended reform of the public
procurement system and the restructuring of five of the seven projects in the portfolio. In
February 1994, the Government and IDA revised the strategy aimed at improving portfolio
performance, with a view to phasing out the remainder of the IBRD-financed portfolio by June
1995. To date, there remains 3 problem projects in the portfolio. Two of these will be cancelled
by end-June with the other closing on schedule as of the same date. Of the four remaining IBRD
loans, one has been restructured, one is closing in December 1994 and the balance of the other
two will be cancelled by June 1995 to be replaced by new IDA operations.
75.   The Country Procurement Assessment report for Cameroon (FY94) concluded that
Cameroon's current procurement practices are not in conformity with Bank guidelines. Under the
proposed ERC, Government is committed to implement a number of reforms aimed at
decentralizing the public procurement system in Cameroon. More specifically, the Government
plans to adopt the following reform measures by end-1994 in the foliowing areas: Qt) adopt the
recommendations of the November 1993 action plan to address deficiencies; (ii) harmonize public
procurement procedures with those of Cameroon!s major partners, including the World Bank
Group; (iii) strengthen coordination and collaboration between customs and the agencies in
charge of inspection and control of imports; (iv) strengthen the capacity of the technical ministries
in public procurement; and (v) revise the role of the Direction des Grands Travaux du Cameroun
(DGTC), which is currently responsible for overseeing the whole procurement process, in order
to eliminate areas of conflict of interest. Emphasis will be put on procurement issues and



28
improvement in this area will be closely linked to continued IDA assistance. In addition to
procurement problems, lack of counterpart funds, weak project and financial management, delays
in audit reporting are generic issues which must be addressed. Of the nine outstanding audits, six
are in the process of being carried out and three are expected to be transmitted to the Bank by
June 1994. A mini Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) will be carried out in the
second quarter of FY95 to review the generic issues- application of procurement procedures and
financial management, counterpart fund availability-- which have plagued the implementation of
the IBRD-portfolio.
76.  IDA is taking steps to reduce the impact of the generic issues identified in para. 73. To
that end, IDA is focusing on borrower-driven projects and sector work which address sector
priorities. In the case of the health, ferility and nutrition project, for example, the Ministry of
Health went through an intensive exercise to "internalize" the SAR pre-appraisal and appraisal
process and ensure that project proposals are coherent with those defined by the intended
beneficiaries. This type of approach is expected to yield projects whose design take into account
government capacity to deliver and to provide local financing, thereby reducing implementation
problems related to lack of counterpart funds. In addition, project implementation manuals and
key performance indicators are being developed during project preparation in order to strengthen
project innagement. The recommendations of the financial management study (FY94) will
introduce specific requirements designed to strengthen project performance in that area. Project
design of the new portfolio is drawing on lessons learned from previous experience and will
ensure that the new IDA portfolio draws from local participation. Training of local staff in
procurement, the standardization of bidding documents and better coordination of donor activity
in project design and implementation have been carried out in FY94.
The Role of the Resident Mission
77.   The Resident Mission is playing an increasing role in portfolio implementation. To that
end, local staff resources have been strengthened to provide back-up to headquarters staff in
infrastructure, agriculture and the social sectors. Resident Mission staff are also trained in
procurement and disbursement and ensure quality control of disbursement documents in order to
reduce delays. Efforts will be made over FY95 to strengthen the Resident Mission's capacity in
providing guidance and advice on procurement procedures through intensive staff training in this
area. Should IDA move to a low case scenario, Resident Mission resources will be redirected to
provide more substantive back-up in the supervision of ongoing operations. In the event that the
country falls into non-accrual, the strategy calls for a redeployment of available resources to
reflect the lower level of assistance being provided by IDA.
IFC AND MIGA
78.   As of May 1994, IFC's portfolio and equity investments in Cameroon totalled US$82
million. The sectors covered included the agriculture sector (palm oil, rubber, banana), agro-
industries (flour, sugar, dairy products), light industry (shoes, textiles, soft drinks) and aluminum
smelting. IFC has made two investments since 1988 of $70 million to Pecten Cameroon Co. in



29
the petroleum sector. IFC will continue to support investments in the petroleum sector and focus
on financing export-oriented small-and medium-scale enterprises.
79.   Cameroon is a fuU member of MIGA. The Guarantees Division of MIGA has insured one
small agribusiness investment in the amount of US$370,000. Another two investments in
agribusiness and natural resources are at the preliminary application stage.
80.   The Foreign Advisory Service (FIAS) has assisted in redrafting the investment code and
has conducted a diagnostic study on foreign investment.
COOPERATION WrrH OTHER DONORS
81.   Cameroon has recently intensified efforts to repair its strained relations with the donor
community. The European Union has resumed its program of assistance to Cameroon following
the blocking of its aid in 1992. The ADB is expected to be a strong presence in Cameroon once
the Govermnent is able to settle outstanding arrears. The international community came to
Cameroon's aid, albeit with some reluctance, during the March 1994 Paris Club which
rescheduled Cameroon's current eligible extemal debts under enhanced Toronto terms and
arrears under Houston terms (see paras. 45-46). However, Cameroons ability to improve its
relations with donors will depend on its determination to implement a sound economic reform
program and better governance.
82.  IDA remains committed to mobilizing resources for Cameroon in collaboration with other
donors through avenues such as the SPA, to the extent that Cameroons perfonmance justifies. In
addition, IDA plans to convene a donor meeting in November 1994 in Paris, if there is satisfictory
progress by Government in the implementation of the reforn program. Informal meetings of
donors in Washington and Europe and informal monthly meetings in the Resident Mission and
sector coordination groups will continue to be convened and the close working relationship with
the DMF maintained.
F. AGENDA FOR BOARD CONSIDERATION
83.   Risks and Contingency Plans.  There are major internal risks associated with the
proposed lending and they far outweigh external risks. First, the civil service is highly
demotivated and inefficient which may hamper implementation of the agreed programs. This risk
is mitigated by the current efforts of the Government to reform the civil service, including plans
to layoff excess sta.T and providing better incentives for remaining staff while maintaining the
wage bill at its current levels. A second risk is the political infighting and lack of coordination
among the ministries responsible for economic management. This risk is mitigated by the recent
establishment of a coordination commission under the leadership of the President of the Republic
to improve coordination of economic management. A third risk is the potentially explosive
political situation due to the fragmentation and tensions prevalent in Cameroon today,



30
exacerbated by the years of economnic decline preceding the devaluation. This risk could, at least
partly, be mitigated by a resurgence of economic activity which benefits all segments of
Cameroon's diverse population and an increased willingness on the part of the regime to share
power. In addition, the devaluation and the accompanying measures should provide improved
economic opportunities and raise employment levels. A fourth risk is that Government will
continue to manifest the traditional reluctance in pursuing reforms and falls short on its
commitments under its economic and social reform agenda. To date, implementation of the
economic recovery program over the past 3-5 months only allows room for cautious optimism.
However, it is worth noting that Cameroon has only just embarked on an initial phase of a long
and very difficult transformation which the country may not be able to pursue consistently and
vigorously. As a result, the Country Assistance Strategy identifies a number of triggers which
constitute the means test of government's willingness and ability to pursue its reform agenda.
Cameroon's response will determine the type of partnership that would guide IDA's program of
assistance.
84.   Criteiafor Measuring Progress. The adjustment scenario will be pursued provided that
Government continues to be fully committed to its economic reform program outlined in paras.
18-42. However, in light of the government's poor implementation performance and policy back-
tracking in the past, four specific triggers (outlined in para. 71 and table 3) will be used to
measure govenment-sustained commitment to reform. Failure on any one of these points would
derail the pursuit of adjustment lending and all non-core investment lending.
85.   Summary Assessment. The World Bank Group has made available a substantial amount
of resources for Cameroon's economic and social development and has helped shape economic
and social policy in the country. In spite of the difficult political context, the Govemment has
taken courageous measures as part of its economic reform program. Although these efforts merit
support, government's demonstrated willingness to pursue reforms, in spite of political problems,
is essential to continued IDA support. As proposed in the strategy, IDA would continue to
support a coherent set of reforms and would play the catalytic role of mobilizing other donors'
support to fill the gap left by IDA. Under the assumption that implementation of the reform
program would stay on track and that Cameroon would live up to its commitments under the
proposed ERC and its economic reform program, IDA would pursue the implementation of
reforms in macroeconomic management, including public procurement reform in coliaboration
with Cameroon's other partners. The proposed IDA lending program would support Cameroons
efforts to attain these goals.
PART II. THE ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
CREDIT AMouNT AND HISTORY
86.   The proposed Economic Recovery Credit in the amount of SDR 53.1 million (US$75
million equivalent) would support the Govermment's economnic recovery program, summarized
above in Part I, section C, and attached in annex VIII. The credit would help finance the imports
needed for economic recovery and growth following the recent devaluation of the CFA franc. The



3'
domestic currency generated by the credit would support the govenunent's overall budget and, in
particular, support an increase in key non-wage current expenditures. The proposed credit would
be disbursed in one tranche upon effectiveness.
87.   The proposed credit was first discussed with the Government by a high-level Bank mission
visiting Cameroon in January-Febnrary 1994. The Government subsequently prepared an initial
draft of its Memorandum of Economic Recovery Program along with a draft of the Public
Enterprise Sector Reform Policy Declaration that were discussed with a Bank appraisal mission in
April 1994. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., in May 1994. Supplemental credit
processing data are provided in Annex VII.
CONDITIONS FOR BOARD PRESENTATION AND EFFECTIIENESS
88.   The Government has fulfilled the following Board conditions:
(a) In the (draft) Loi de Finances for 1994/95, submitted to the Parliament for
approval, reflect the public investment program, levels of non-wage recurrent
expenditures for the health, education and agriculture sectors and for road
maintenance, and the levels of resources allocated to the Social Action
Program, as determined hi agreement with the Bank.
(b) Effectively implement the UDEAC indirect tax and tariff reforms including: (i)
effectively introduce a turnover tax (TCA) with two rates; and (ii) establish an
inventoty of beneficiaries of tax and tariff exemptions under "conventions
detablissement".
(c) Sign a new contract with a Pre-Shipment Inspection service, covering price,
quality and quantity verification for all imports exceeding CFA 2 million and
for all exports of timber.
(d) Eliminate all remaining import license requirements and finalize a revised
document describing Cameroon's trade regime.
(e) Adopt regulatory texts for the implementation of the organizational and
staffing plans for the four ministries: Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Plan,
Ministry of Commerce and Industry and Ministry of Civil Service and
Administrative Reform.
(f) Define procedures and modalities for departure of surplus civil servants.
(g) Adopt the Public Enterprise Sector Reform Policy Declaration, established in
agreement with the Bank.



32
89.   During negotiations it was agreed that prior to credit effectiveness the Government would:
(a) Adopt implementation decrees satisfactory to IDA for the forestry law.
(b) Adopt and publish a first list satisfactory to IDA of at least 10 public
enterprises to privatize or liquidate,
PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING
90.   Both private and public sector imports would be eligible for financing and subject to ICB
procedures for amounts exceeding US$2.0 million equivalent in accordance with procedures
consistent with Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and
credits', published by the Bank in 1992. A simplified standard ICB document, advertising
procedures, format of the bid evaluation report acceptable to the Bank will be agreed upon prior
to the availability of the first bidding documents to the public. For lesser amounts, imports by the
public sector would be eligible for financing provided that public procurement procedures have
been found acceptable by the Bank and those by the private sector would follow established
commercial practices. All imports would be subject to pre-shipment inspection with regards to
quality and quantity of imports. Pre-shipment inspection would also apply to price for non-ICB
procurement.
91.   The credit would reimburse the foreign exchange costs of Cameroon's general imports,
excluding goods financed by other bilateral or multilateral agencies and goods specifically
prohibited in a negative list defined under the SITC or equivalent classification. Financing under
the credit of imports of foodstuff and petroleum products would be limited to aggregate amounts
of SDR 14.2 million (UJS$20 million equivalent) and SDR 10.7 million (US$15 million equivalent)
respectively. The Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA) would be responsible for the
collection of the relevant supporting documentation (description of advertising procedures,
evaluation summary of bids, comparative statement of prices received, dates of contract and
payment, copy of contract and invoice together with import verification certificates) and for
preparing withdrawal applications. Disbursements would be against Statement of Expenditures
(SOEs) for eligible contracts valued at US$2.0 million equivalent, or less. The supporting
documentation for these would be retained by the CAA and would be made available to Bank
staff and to subsequent external auditors. The nature and origin of the goods as well as the
payment date would be indicated on the SOEs. Expenditures for goods procured under invoices
for US$20,000 equivalent or less would not be eligible for financing out of credit proceeds. All
other disbursements would be made against full documentation submitted to IDA. The minium
withdrawal application size would be US$500,000 equivalent. In order to enable the Governmnent
to meet urgent foreign exchange needs, IDA would disburse for payments for eligible imports
made not more than six months prioi to the date of the Credit Agreement. In addition to standard
auditing covenants, an audit report, completed by auditors and according to procedures
acceptable to IDA, would be submitted to IDA no later than 3 months after the ful disbursement
of the Credit or six months after the end of the fiscal year, whichever is earliest.



33
BENEFS AND RiKS
92.    The proposed credit, indeed the entire macroeconomic program, faces a number of
serious risks as outlined above in para 83. With government commitment and social peace helped
by the economic recovery expected to follow the devaluation, these risks can, however, be
managed. The benefits are substantial. Effective and timely implementation of the economic
recovery program constitutes an integral part of the medium-term adjustment effort and will be
critical in establishing the conditions for renewed and sustainable economic growth. The measures
envisaged -- in the areas of public resources management, trade and price liberalization and public
enterprise reform -- will, if implemented, help reduce financial imbalances in the economy and
provide a significant impetus to the productive sectors. The financial assistance which is proposed
under the Credit will not only provide critical financial support to the Government but will also
facilitate implementation of a number of targeted social measures - measures which will provide
some comfort to the most vulnerable groups in the wake of the devaluation. The credit will also
constitute the first in a new generation of IDA operations and provides the Bank with an
important vehicle for policy dialogue needed to underpin the entire FY95-97 portfolio. Equally
important, the implementation of the program will be used as an indicator of the government's
credibility and determination to adhere to its commitments and, as a result, determine [DA!s ability
to proceed with an expanded program of sector adjustment and investment operations in
Cameroon as proposed under the base case presented in Section I.
PART III REcoMMENDATioN
93.   1 am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the International Development Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, DC
_June, 1994



Annex I
Table I
Cameroon- Selected Indicators of Bank
Portfolio Performance and Management
Indicator                                                             FY91          FY92           FY93          FY94
erff/  PedoMence
Number of projects under implementation                                16.0           14.0          13.0          11.0
Average implarmentation period (years) Jo                               4f5           4.7            5.3           5.6
Average ratings
Development objeatves /b                                            2.1            1.9           2.7           2.4
Overall status /c                                                   2.5           2.3            3.0           2.8
Percent of projects rated 3 or 4                                       47.0          36.0           84.0          27.3
Development objectives lb                                          20.0           7.1           69.2           27.3
Overall status /a                                                  48.7           35.7          69.2           53.8
Canceled during FY                                                      ...           0.0           0.0            0.0
Disbursement ratio (%) Id                                              17.0          20.0           24.0           9.0
Disbursement lag (%) la
Memorandum item: % completed projects                                     27 (as of Deomber 31.1991)
rated unsatisfactory /f
Portifolio Management
Supervision resources (total US$)                                     1394.2         988.9         1052.6         844.0
Average supervision (US$Iproject)                                      92.9          70.6           81.0          76.7
Supervision resoures by loation lin %)                                 100.0         100.0          100.0         100.0
Percent heaquarters                                                76.2           71.5          73.9          74.6
Percent resident mission                                           23.8           28.5          26.1           25.4
Supervision resources by rating category
(LUSlproject)
Projects rated 1 or 2                                                ...         123.9          38.9           46.9
Projects rated 3 or 4                                               ...          128.2          209.3         100.9
Memoradum item: date of lastl noxt CPPR                                                               -          Dec-94
a. Avere age of projects In nh Bank's counry pertfalo.
b. Extent to which the proJect wI a t Its development obecis (oeD 10I  Annx 02. Prpwaron of i_pke_ntatIon Swmmery (Form 6901.
c. Assessment of overall performnce of the prjet bad on the rae   given to Iniduda aspects ofproject WiplWsmaon
(e.g.. management aaibilt of funds cmpline with blg covnenats) and to developmen objectve   e OD 13.05, Annex D2.
Preparation of impl_meton Summay (Fom 690). The oveal stas b n aen *a betwr atino tan that gin to project development
objecive.W
d. Raio of disbursement duri the er to the undlbumd bdane of the Bonks paftfeb at the beginin of the yer. Ivesmnt projects only.
e. For aD projects comprsng the Bnk's couw   portfolio. the Peoentege die_nce between actualeumc_ativ dlsbursements ad the cumlatIv
disbursements eftimte as givn In the OOdufa SARP Foeaster, It the loanouns hav been neWWodifi, In the PeVsd Forecast. The cotly
porStio disburemnt bag Is effectively the 1sftsd averag of sae in th totl oumu_    dsbursmet etate.
f. For curt FY onl. from the OED databe.



Annex II
Table 1
Cameroon - Bank Group Fact Sheet, FY 95-97
IBRDIIDA Lending Program, FY 95-97
Past          Actual        Ranned
Category             FY92     FY93       FY94         FY95/97
Commitments (US$m)              23.0        -       125.0        1240 - 3401
Sector (%I
Agriculture                 100.0                  -            13.0
Industry and finance                    -                       13.0
Energy                                                          5.0
Power
Public sector management      -         -          -            2.0
Infrastructure and urban
development                   -                                 39.0
Human resources               -         -          -            21.0
Environment                   --                                6.0
Mining and other extractive   -                    -
Multisector                   -         -          -            1.0
TOTAL                      100.0    100.0       100.0         100.0
Lending instrument 1%)
Adjustment loans                        -        100.0          32.0
Specific investment loans     -         -                       68.0
and others
TOTAL                      100.0    100.0       100.0         100.0
Disbursements (US$m)                        -       200.3       [280 -3401
Adjustment loans                        -        125.0       t80 - 100l
5'th Dimension                -         -         51.0       [80- 1001
Specific investment loans
and others                   68.8      64.8       24.3       [120- 1401
Repayments (US$m)               58.9      32.3       84.3          295.1
Interest (US$m)                 60.7      32.1       78.5          168.5



Annex It
Table 2
Cameroon - IFC and MIGA Program, FY 92-94
Past
Category                 FY92           FY93            FY94
IFC approvals (US$m)                    30             3.8            40.8
Sector (%)
Agribusiness                                         -             2.0
Capital Markets
Chemicals/fertilizers
Infrastructure
Manufacturing \_a                    -             100              -
Oil/mining _b                       100             -              98
TOTAL                             100             100             100
Investment instrument (%1
Loans                               100            100             100
Equity                                -  
TOTAL                              100            100             100
MIGA guarantees(UJS$ thousands)                         -             370
MIGA commitments (US$m)
a. 1992 - FC pueipation totals $30 mDllon.
b. 1993 - WFC participation total 40 milon.



Annex 11
Table 3
Statement of IFC Investment
(as of 05/31/94)
Amount in US$ millions
Fiscal        Obligor                                        Business                 Loan        Equity    Total
year
1975          Bata                                       Shoes                             -          0.4     0.4
1977/79/81    SAFA                                       Palm oil & rubber                -           1.4     1.4
1979          ALUCAM                                     Aluminium                      7.0          0.9     7.9
1981          Socie. Camerounaise de minreries           Flour milling                  1.1          0.2      1.3
1981/82       Verrerie manufact.                         Glass Container                1.7          0.1      1.8 _a
1982          Socie. Suoriere du Cameroon                Sugar msnufact.                1.4             -    1.4 _e
1893          Socie. Agro-past. & Industrielle           Agribusiness                   0.7          0.3      1.0 \_a
1985          Societe des Palmerais de Ia Ferme Suisso   Palm oil                        2.0         0.5      2.5
1986/93       CICAM                                      Textile                        3.0           6.5    6.5
1986          SILAC                                      Dairy products                 2.3          0.6      2.9 \-a
1987          Prestige Bottling                          Soft drink                     2.7          0.3      3.0
1988          SPNP                                       Banana                         1.9           0.4     2.3
1992          Pecten                                     Petroleum                     60.0             -   60.0 _b
Total gross commitments                                        92.33
Total commitments now held by IFC                              28.86
Total undisbursed (including participant's portion)
a. Investments sold canceled , wrtten off or reimbursed.
b. Includes US$30 million participation.



Caoom: Prioity  Poverty  icators                       Annex III Page 1 of 2
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~m                                  _ m        ade   p   l_M
UWP~ ~     ~        ~~~~~~~~ -                                        MEr.  _   _   _   _   _   _
'OVERl
adowA i                             %p 
- oa - r.___._
Hatdwa ax                           %OfP6
GNP per capw                           USS               130       310        850       330       1X10       3.,O
SHIORT TERM ICOME INDICAtORS
Uukrn.d..awu                         lc ami                .         _          _         _          _.         _
~urUwJ"I wet                                              -          -          ..        -  
RsoitirTntfuM   o'                                        .. T
Cmrn.iwpnc;                          1987-100            17         29        106
Faed                           '                                    -          9- _  
UAbm
SOaiAL NDWATORS
Pubi yn   s m  aj g   uwee.;c   %o(ODP              _      .    __.        _        _
Prbzy                             %s.lp4p"F              94         97         0t1       70        100          _
Mal                                                     114       108        10S        76        106          _
F .                                    *                73         87          n         40
Mwu*
1abmuty                           daLliwbk&            to43       lo9         64        104        40         33
tier s Iit                                               -          ..       121    ,177           53         40
Mm"                                %Ap                   _          _         14         40        70
D'r                                                      _          _         20         35        74          _
_ldmamida(wdm )                            _7 I                          t _               .         -          -
-<gS YOM                                                42         47        $S          St        67         69
Fgml.baim                             mld              1.07       1D7        1.06       L06       1.0        Lll
Towd *iulty me                     bbihw   p             5.2        43         5.8       C4         3X         26
100.MHftt)ft                       -                     -
vo '                                 250                                    120*.
5                                                                           1000to  
4                                                                            so   ~
150
3                                                                            .60
o   ~~~~~~~~~o
2                                                                            40
mnzd6O    mid7Os      amu              wid4f.   WMl7        -o                .jb    =M70g    -m
QCoana
- W-O mum



Anne3c II Page 2 of 2
Camrn: Resourws Ad Expdiba
lIabq"     mss.             .                  _ue  , st
f _d                                                                      e    4 b'          AJ
HMN  SOURCEZ
ftphgas(m,s .tg                         *mmam              Sim         7.43   1     IIl    480=         773.8       307
AP, 4g dy                                 Vo                 OS2        Q           099        097         071         (.63
Utbis                                   %ofpa               164         269         420        237         53          73
paeeuio       n Ua thawn                -1                   1.9         2.9         3.1        3A          1.          1.1
tu                                         *                50          &0          5.0        5.0         3.1         2.0
Labor w(1544                            00=11116           2,          3434        4,467    203947      302.448     24.141
AgiwIbJas                             %Ehbwuum                16          77     _                -     _      _
F.a.A.                     '                                   43         3?         33          37         32          30
FApur 100 as
Uran                    _b                                               89         39           .     S     9
Final                                                         -         123        106           -
NATURAL RESOURCES
AM                                      rs. s km             475        475         475      23,0 23     23.990      3044
D_nity                               P!r  pobm               12.0       16.0        24A0       20.0        31.         16"
AU0I1WZII lad                        %dlatises             31.4        31.6        329        51.0        41.8        43g
Champ in apinobmae land                 smna%                0.4         00.0                   0.0         0.0         0.1
A    bIaZIaZU.   andw inipak                                 0.0         0.1         0.0        5i         12.6         8.3
Poreis and woadlad                     doa. licu             273        262         247       6.65t1      5396        7.703
Dda4muak (no)                                                .0 .4      40.4        .0.4
INCOME
Slbt.oftop20%doubsuo&b                %aE(l1nI                ...    -                     -
SlureafbaUa 40%aioctuo__.
Sharefb     20%fhsl'                                          -           -          -           - 
C?XENDrrURE
Food                                    %ooDP  -. __                                160           _           _          _
Staples                                  ..         ..        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.9  -. 
C4Vda                                   b.ic                  48          69        398       7.838      44.41       3
Foodaidinea srs                                                ,           4          6       27          4047         3C
Foaodp&tWi    apils                    1979.8-100             92         116         79          94         101        108
FhztiIizaamumhaao                                            2.0         2.0         0.0       14.         94.2       120.0
Slum of apiaselmar. nGDP                %adblP              32.7        29.1        27.2       29.2           _         89
Homing                                  %ofODP                 -           -        lO9                 -                -
Avaga3housebolimsIze                pu.mpettwbuld                                                 -           -
Urban                                                         -                       .... 
Fad uwl__ bushg                         %4lODP                 ..        4.1         64 .
Fudand po %wer                                                             _ .1.7                 _
Enet_op               c               tscEdeiw.              a67          93        147         100       1,249       1,701
Urban                                %Gfbamm                              -          -           _-
T    port andc     u%aof%DP                                                          to _   0  _       _ _
Ftxod kwamum s im;  opooft3.7                                     2.1--
Toal rod luah                              b                   _           ..     52,214
INVESTWENT IN UUMAN CA.rAL
HAclt      h
P0;"fpwp**if                                              26,720       3700       t195
Popuation per                                              5,331      1700         1,690 
Populationperhopitabed                      *                  _         400        393         328         509
Acs.to ssf  _                           %Ipo                   ..          _        31.0       36.7           _
Urban                                                                              43.0        74_3
Rurl*_                                                                             24.0        24.2
Qea1rthydqT(_5eUa.apy(}~4)              %otou.                 .           -         22          35           _
Educl
Graseollmtura;o
Seoodary                            % flcadassppmp             5          13         26          is          56
FanIO                                      '                  2           8         21          14           _
paud4eacar twio:pnmy                 jti1,pat                 47          51         SI          39          25
Pupl4eah ratio: s.o:day                     '                 27          32          32          .
Pupilsmshngpude4                        %fauu                              o 30       36         69
R    qpuat : prusy                    %OftalWAll                          25          29
lfliacy                             %*dp   (sp 1.+)           Si          59          46         51           - 
Femal                              %of(or Iu+)                                       57         62
Ne'ww.pefircal                         per taPOPL              2           3           4          5                       A
3ouras World Bank haaauatiaa Eccoomnis DVspmwaei ApIl IM9



Annex IV
Table 1
Cameroon - Key Economic Indicators
Actual         Estim.                 Projected
Indicator          FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93    FY94  FY95   FY96 FY97
National accounts 4%
GOP at current market prics
Gross domestic product         100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Agriculture                 24.6   23.8   24.3   24.4    24.6   25.6   26.8   27.0
Industry                    31.5   32.4   33.1   33.1    33.2   33.9   34.3   34.8
Service                     43.9   43.8   42.6   42.5    42.2   40.5   38.9   38.2
Total consumption              89.2   87.8   90.5   90.2    85.2   81.0   80.2   79.5
Gross domestic fixed Investment  14.6   12.7   11.1   10.8   .11.9   13.4   14.0   15.4
Govemment investment        5.5    4.3    2.9    2.2        1.9    2.4    2.7    3.3
Private investment
(includes increase In stocks)  9.1    8.4    8.2    8.6    10.0   11.0   11.3   12.2
Exports (GNFS)                 18.9   19.8   19.6   19.5    26.3   28.9   28.3   28.0
Imports (GNFS)                 22.7   20.3   21.2   20.5    23.4   23.3   22.5   22.9
Gross domestic savings         10.8   12.2    9.5    9.8    14.8    19        19.8   20.5
Gross nadonal savings          4.8    4.8    1.8    0.6        3.1    7.9    9.9    11.9
Memoradum ites
Gross domestic product        11045  11613  10447  10040   6558   6117   6761   7184
(US$ million at current prices)
Gross national product per capita  879    816    788    735    566    483    442    450
(US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1987 prices)
Gross domestic product at   -6.9   -7.0   -5.2   -4.9    -5.9   3.8    4.7    5.1
market prices
Gross domestic income        ...    .      -8.1   -5.3    -6.4   3.8    5.3    5.6
Real annual per capita growth rates
(%, calculated from 1987 prices)
Gross domestic product at   -9.6   -9.7   -8.0   -7.7    -8.7   0.8    1.7    2.1
market prices
Total consumption           -8.1   -9.9   -7.9   -8.5   -12.0  -1.8    1.1    2.0
Continued
1, 



Annex IV
Table 2
Cameroon - Key Economic Indicators
IContinuedJ
Actual         Estim.            Projected
Indicator         FY90  FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94  FY95  FY96   FY97
Balance of Payments
(US$m)
Exports (GNFS)             2088  2295   2043   1961    1724  1769  1915   2013
Merchandise f.o.b       1743  1920   1688   1586   1430  1500  1618    1704
Imports (GNFS)             2498  2352   2204   2066   1535  1422  1526    1650
Merchandise f.o.b       1750  1569   1467   1387   1006  923   997    1087
Resource Balance           -410   -57    -161   -105    189   346   388    363
Net current transfers       -52   -67    -76       83      -93   -26   -21      15
(includ. official current transfers)
Current account balance    -1077  -915   -965   -1031   -579  -331  -277    -257
(after official grants)
Net private foreign direct invest.   7  10  61     61      52    63    69       75
Long term loans (net)       629   679    457    348    548   512   244          278
Official                 629   679    460    348    548   512   244         278
Private                  ...    ...     ...     ...     ...   ...    ...     ...
Other capital (net, including  -388  -196   -391   -403     7    222   -68      -17
errors and omissions)
Change in reserves          53    30       57      219    -14   -22   -104    -113
Memoradum items
Resource Balance (% of GDP    -3.7  -0.5   -1.5   -1.0    2.9   5.7   5.7       5.0
at current market prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1987 prices)
Merchandise exports      0.7   -4.6    1.6    -4.9   -2.9   0.8   2.5        3.1
(f.o.b)
Primary                      ...     ...     ...     ...   ...    ...     ...
Manufacture          ...                 ...        ...    ...    ...
Merchandise imports      0.7  -14.5   -8.6   -7.5   -18.6  -10    5.4        7.2
Continued



Annex V
Table 3
Cameroon - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual        Estim.             Projected
Indicator         FY90  FY91  FY92    FY93   FY94  FY95  FY96 FY97
Public finance M% of GDP
at current market prices)
Current revenue              14.4  16.2  17.1    16.2    14.6   16.0   17.3   17.8
Current expenditure          23.0   25.7  24.3    24.6    22.6   21.2   19.7   19.1
Primary surplus 4+) or deficit 4-)  -5.6  -4.4  -1.3    -1.8    0.3   3.5    5.3    5.9
Current account surplus 1 +)  -8.6   -9.5  -7.2    -8.4    -8.0  -5.2  -2.4   -1.3
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure          5.5   4.3    2.9       2.2     2.3   2.4    2.7    3.3
Foreign finance              6.8    1.5   11.1    -0.1    20.5   7.1    2.6    2.1
Monetary Indicators
M2/GDP (at current market    16.1   18.7  18.7    18.5    17.3  17.3   18.3   20.5
prices)
Growth of M2 4%)              1.0   2.2   -6.0   -10.0    1.6   25.9   18.6   20.7
Total credit orowth 1%)      -3.7   4.2   -4.2    -2.1    -0.2   23.3   8.6    11.4
Private sector credit growth 4%)    -1.5   -1.2  -14.9   -4.5    -3.6   24.9   14.7   20.0
Prices Indices 41990 = 100)
Merch. imports price index (LCU)  100.0  93.7  100.7   96.8   143.2  198.2  205.6  212.0
Merch. exports price index ILCU)  100.0  103.2  93.0    87.2   134.4  189.7  202.2  209.3
Real exchange rate (IUS$LCU)  100.0  98.3  105.4   98.6    ...    ...   ...    ...
Real intererest rate         10.5  10.5  10.5    10.5    10.5   10.5  10.5   10.5
Consumer price index 1%       1.5   -0.6   2.0    -3.9    12.9   18.7   6.4    2.1
growth rate)
GDP deflator 4% growth       6.1    0.9   -0.8    -4.3    15.3  21.8   6.9    2.4
rate)
Continued



Annex V
Table I
Cameroon - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual         Estim.              Projected
Indicator             FY90   FY91   FY92    FY93    FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97
Total debt outstanding and
disbursed (TOO) (US$m) /a         6269.9 5528.4 7425.1  7421.2  6931.0 7146.2 7281.5 7356.5
Net disbursements (US$m) la        627.6  677.6  455.5   347.2   546.5  511.2  243.3  278.2
Total debt service (TOS)
(US$m) /a                          631.6  963.4  893.8  1043.1   936.9  980.5  961.6  969.8
Total debt service after
rescheduling (TDSR) / b             ...    ...    ...       ...    505.1  399.8  854.1  893.33
Debt and debt service indicators
M%)
TDO/XGS /c                     282.0  329.2  403.5   502.0   652.8  478.4  449.9  353.7
TDOIGDP                         44.5   54.5   65.1    79.3    142.3  117.3  107.7  102.4
TDS/XGS /c                      29.3   40.5   42.2    51.1       52.2   53.4   48.5   46.6
ConcessionalfTDO                8.4    5.1    4.3       15.1     16.3   16.9   18.1   17.3
TDSR/XGNS /b                    ...    ...    ...       ...      29.3   22.6   44.6   44.4
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS                14.4   13.2    7.0    11.5       14.7  15.3    15.2  14.9
Preferred creditor DS/public
DS
IBRD DSJXGS /c                    4.2    5.3    3.0       5.9      7.7    8.2    7.4  6.9
IBRD portfolio share              0.7    0.7    0.7       0.7      0.7    0.6    0.5  0.5
IFC (US$m)
Loans                           16.0   14.1   41.9    44.6        -
Equity and quasi-equity /d
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$ thousands)   -      -               -      370.0     -       -      -
a bnlude pbio end pubwcly guadante det pdfv0t ongusrn. debt, ue of IUf dh.
aNd n   -ms d apa.
b. Read to te ftd Pai Club echeduV held hin Mch 1S94, whe Caroon obtained en_4e Ton      fw cue  ib mi
ed touson's ter for mea.
c *XaS' den expo*t of goods mWd gvibs. hLjadW wodker'   '.e&
4. tude eoquy ed qw"quy tyep  f botha  d emquit iemente



Annex VI
Table 1
Status of Bank Group Operation in Cameroon
Statement of IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(as of 05/04/94)
Undisbwsed         LstAAP
Amount in US$ m,lion    realive to      sUPeVison9 aln@g/
tless cancelationsj   Appfra5is
Low or    RaCIl                                                                  projec Wan    Oevelopment   Overall
cedt ne.    Yea    Boemwer           Aurpose          IRO   IDA   Undisbursed  IUS$ nilloni   objectives    satus
C2s760      94    Cameroon SAC                               SO.0      0.0          0.0           3           3
C25761      94    Caneroon SAC Supplementl Credit            51.0      52.4         0.0          ...          ...
1M25670    85    Cameroon FSAR 11                     25.5             4.5         4.5            3           3
U25840     85    Cameroon ROAD VI                    125.0             0.9         -18.2          2           2
'28830     86    Cnameroon Educ. & voc. train.        30.1             21.2        21.2           3           3
29120      88    Cameroon Cocoa rehab.                61.7             21.9        58.0           3           3
.29990     89    Caernroon Urban II                  146.0             65.2        63.0           3           3
_30140     89    Cameroon Uvostock sector dev.        34.6             23.6        16.1           2           2
b31100     SO    Cameroon Economic Management         9.0              0.5         -0.5           3           3
*.31850    90    Cameroon Agrio. ext. trairing        21.0             15.6         5.7           2           2
132060     90    Cameroon SOAIHuman reources          21.5             18.3        11.2           3           4
1.33880    92    C:neroon Food Security               23.0             20.2         4.3           2           2
Total disbursed (IBRO end IDA)                            1497.62
Of which has been repaid                                 379.0
rotld now held by IBRD and IDA                            1118.58
4mount sold                                                8.45
Of which repaid                                           8.45
rotd undlsbursed                                          245.77
I RAig of 1t4: me 00 13.05. ANnex 02 Peparation of kmplmentation Sumnary Iform 5901



ANNEX VII
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
ECONOMIC RtECOVERY CREDIT
KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
Time taken to prepare:                   4 months
Project prepared by:                     Govenunent with the assistance of IBRD staff'
Identification:                          February 1994
Loan Comnmittee:                         March 25, 1994
Appraisal:                               March 28, 1994 - April 14, 1994
Negotiations:                            May 9 - 14, 1994
Board Presentation:                      June 16, 1994
Expected Effectiveness:                  June 30, 1994
Closing Date:                            June 30, 1995
his report is based on the findings of the World Bank mission which visited Camemon in March/April 1994 to assist the
Government in identification and paation ofthe proect and concurrently appras it Miion members included:
MessrsMmes. Kolster (Tak Manager); Brickiell (Countzy Officer); Morin (Senor CounselY) Madie-Nelly (PubLic
Entepi Sector) Poupart, Moll-Dnrker (Socia SectorsX Blake (Resident Economist) Mujica (Research Assistant)
Additional contributors include: MusrsiMmes. Guillou (Disbrsement Kreuzwieser (xomist Layec (Eney
Sectory, Woodward (Social Sector, Ferm (Aginculture); Schwart (Transporty, Ah-Sue (Procurement); and Allen (Staff
Asstant). Mr. Luis Emeso Derbez and Mr. Olivier Lafourcade are the managpng Division Chief and Deparment
Director, respectively, for the  eration



ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 12
MEMORANDUM ON THE ECONOMIC RECOVERY
PROGRAM
1. INTRODUCTION
1.   The Government of Cameroon has embarked on a comprehensive economic reform
program to redress the financial imbalances and reverse the economic decline experienced
over the past 7-8 years. The Government's new strategy rest on four pillars: (i) realignment
of the CFA parity, aiming at bringing the real effective exchange rate to a level compatible
with restoration of macroeconomic balance and sustained economic growth; (ii) a tightened
domestic demand policy to suppress inflation once the post-devaluation price adjustments
have occurred; (iii) reduced government involvement in the economy, and improved efficiency
and transparency of government interventions in the delivery of public services; and (iv)
continuation of the process of liberalization of external trade and removal of all constraints on
the free functioning of markets for labor, goods and services. This new strategy breaks
decisively with past policies which, despite some progress, were insufficient to reverse the
economic decline which set in during the mid-1 980s.
2.   Background & Recent Developments. In the mid-1980s, after 25 years of strong
economic growth, balanced budgets and accumulation of foreign reserves, Cameroon
experienced a series of adverse shocks which precipitated its current economic crisis. The
terms of trade fell by about 55 percent from 1985 to 1989 as a result of a sharp decline in
the prices of key commodities. In addition, oil production began to decline, causing external
and internal financial balances to deteriorate further. These difficulties were compounded by
continued appreciation of the real effective exchange rate, sparked by the sharp depreciation
of the US dollar and the Nigerian naira. The real effective exchange rate appreciated by 30
percent from 1984/85 to 1991/92, thus contributing to the mounting problems of
competitiveness vis-a-vis our trading partners. These shocks sent the Cameroonian economy
into a long and deep economic crisis, and GDP fell by an average of 3.4 percent a year from
1985/86 to 1988/89. The overall budget deficit increased further as a result of a 40 percent
decline in fiscal revenues ari', together with a decline in private sector savings, resulted in a
sharp deterioration in the external current account from surplus in 1984/85 to a largely
deficitary situation in 1988/89. To address these mounting problems, the Government
launched an economic reform program, which was supported by the IMF with a first Standby
Arrangement in 1988, and by the World Bank and the African Development Bank with the
grant of Structural Adjustment Loans in 1989. The stabilization-cum-adjustment program was
aimed at correcting the internal and external disequilibria and restoring external
competitiveness - thereby establishing the conditions for resumed growth -- and was based
on the assumption that these objectives could be achieved through deflationary intemal
adjustment policies only.
3.   However, the fundamental shocks undergone by the economy proved too serious to
be mitigated by the available economic policy instruments, which excluded the means to
adjust the nominal exchange rate parity. Moreover, the external terms of trade deteriorated



ANNEX Vill
Page 2 of 12
by another 12-14 percent from 1988/89 to 1992/93, while the real effective exchange rate
appreciated further. These factors, together with sharp reductions in gross domestic
investment, resulted in a steady decline of real GDP averaging 5.1 percent per annum during
1988/89-1992/93. Consequently, real per capita income has been reduced by more than 50
percent since 1985/86 and by almost 30 percent since 1988/89. With the deteriorating terms
of trade and an appreciating real effective exchange rate, export performance, agricultural
exports in particular, worsened considerably. The performance of the import-substituting
light manufacturing sector also deteriorated. The current account deficit continued to increase,
reaching 10.5 percent of GDP in 1992/93.
4.   Despite significant reductions in the Government's discretionary expenditures and
attempts to tighten up tax collection, the fundamental fiscal problems persisted throughout
the 1989-93 period. While the primary budget deficit was reduced somewhat at first, the
overall deficit increased from 5.9 percent of GDP in 1988/89 to 8.4 percent in 1992/93,
primarily as a result of increased internal and external interest payment obligations. While non-
interest expenditures were contained, efforts to raise revenues did not always produce the
desired effects, being undermined by social tension, among other things, which led to an
upsurge in tax avoidance. Finally, in an attempt to redress the fiscal imbalance, the
Government proceeded with an unprecedented program of civil service pay cuts in January
and again in November of 1993, leaving the average basic wage for government employees
in December 1993 at 58 percent of its December 1992 level. However, these efforts were
insufficient to arrest the continuing process of economic decline or to redress the persistent
financial imbalances.
5.   A New Macroeconomic Framework. In view of this situation, the Government, along
with its partner countries in the CFA zone, decided to realign the parity of the CFA franc from
50 CFAF/FF to 100 CFAF/FF, effective January 12, 1994. To ensure the success of the
devaluation, the Government has adopted a program of economic adjustment and structural
reforms with the following basic objectives: (i) secure sustainable gains in the country's
competitiveness; (ii) return the economy to a sustainable and balanced growth path; and {ii)
improve the employment situation by grappling head-on with the problems of unemployment
and poverty. The reform program, supported by an IMF Standby Arrangement, aims to: (i)
maintain inflation at a level below 5 percent from 1996 onwards, following initial adjustments
in relative prices; (ii) reverse the negative growth trend and attain sustainable real non-oil GDP
growth of about 5 percent per annum by 1995 and through the rest of the decade, thanks
mainly to improved competitiveness and export performance; and (iii) achieve primary and,
possibly, overall budget surplus to facilitate increased domestic savings, reduce the current
account deficit, and finance an increasing share of domestic investments.
6.   The policy measures outlined in the present Memorandum on the Economic Recovery
Program have been designed to support implementation of this reform program, with particular
emphasis on those measures that are critical to economic recovery as well as representing
stepping-stones to sustainable growth. This Memorandum focuses on the following areas:
(i) public sector resource management; (ii) internal and extemal trade regime; (iii) public
enterprise sector reform; and (iv) social policies. It concludes with a general discussion of the
Government's policies in the agriculture, transport and petroleum sectors - the key growth
and growth-supporting sectors in the Cameroonian economy.



ANNEX Vill
Page 3 of 12
11. PUBLIC SECTOR RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
7.   Improved mobilization and more efficient management of public resources will
necessarily constitute the backbone of any attempt to reduce financial imbalances and
establish the conditions for resumed economic growth. The fiscal imbalances experienced
over the past 4-5 years as a result of the continued decline in revenue, and, until 1993,
the persistent high levels of staff costs, are neither sustainable by nor compatible with the
sought-after economic growth. In the same way, non-wage current expenditures and
investment outlays in key development sectors have been reduced to levels which no
longer allow basic public services to be provided to users or essential infrastructure to be
maintained. A significant improvement is needed at the levels of mobilization and
management of public sector resources, and this will depend on a number of
interconnected actions. As agreed with the IMF, the purpose of these actions will be to:
(i) bring about a significant and rapid increase in domestic revenues; (ii) contain the civil
service wage bill, as part of a sweeping program of civil service reform; (iii) significantly
increase non-wage expenditures and improve allocation of those expenditures among
sectors; (iv) substantially improve the programming and execution of public investments;
and (v) carry out a major overhaul of the public procurement system.
Tax and Tariff Reform
8.   To ensure the satisfactory delivery of public services and to reduce the overall
deficit of the central government, a key objective of the Government's econcmnic recovery
program is to raise non-oil revenue from 13 percent of non-oil GDP in 1992/93 to 17
percent in 1996197. Efforts to raise domestic revenue in the past were hampered by a
number of factors which, in addition to the difficult economic conditions, included: (i) the
complexity and multiplicity of indirect taxes; (ii) the excessive number of tax exemptions;
and (iii) widespread administrative weakness in general, especially at the level of the tax
and tariff authorities, encouraging tax evasion and smuggling. To address these problems
and to improve the efficiency of the tax system, the Government intends to pursue
implementation of the tax reforms adopted within the UDEAC framework and immediately
launch the necessary measures to improve the efficiency of the tax authorities.
9.   The effective implementation of the tax and tariff reform adopted in January 1994
is a key element in the effort to raise revenues. As part of the customs tariff reform, the
Government introduced a new four-rate system (5, 10, 20 and 30 percent) in February
1994, and abolished all quantitative restrictions on imports at the same time. With respect
to indirect domestic taxes, the Government introduced a two-rate tumover tax ltaxe sur le
chiffre d'affaires - TCAJ on February 1, 1994, consisting of a normal rate of 12.5 percent
(to be raised to 15 percent as of July 1, 1994) and a reduced rate of 5 percent. This
replaces, among others, the turnover tax on domestic goods and services [imp6t sur le
chiffre d'affaires int6rieur - IC4An and the turnover tax on imported goods and services
[taxe sur le chfffre d'affaires l i'importation - TCAII. For enterprises or production units
currently subject to the single tax (taxe unique - TOJI and the domestic tax on production
[taxe interieure sur la production - TIP] regime, the shift to the TCA regime will occur by



ANNEX Vill
Page4of 12
July 1, 1994. Furthermore, official prices Ivaleurs mercurialesl have been replaced by
f.o.b. values as the basis for calculating export taxes on timber; effective July 1, 1994, all
rough-hewn and partially trimmed timber exports are to be taxed at the minimum rate of
20 percent of f.o.b. value.
10.  The Government is also preparing for an in-depth reform of direct taxation to take
effect July 1, 1995. The reform would aim at simplifying and streamlining the rate
structure and at broadening the tax base. Furthermore, to improve the efficiency of the tax
collection departments, the Government is currently launching measures to reorganize
structures and procedures, to strengthen the means at the disposal of the various
authorities, and to provide appropriate incentives to tax collectors.
11.  Another crucial element of the tax reform is to enlarge the tax base through
elimination of tax and tariff exemptions benefiting certain goods and certain companies. By
May 1, 1994, the Government completed its inventory of enterprises and individuals
holding conventions d'Wtablissement. Included in this inventory is provision for scheduling
the renegotiation of existing conventions d'etablissement, a process that is to be
completed by December 31, 1995. By January 1, 1995 at the latest, all public enterprises
will be made subject to the general tax regime [r6gime fiscal de droit communl and will no
longer be entitled to tax and tariff exemptions. The investment code has already been
revised to make it fully compatible with the new tax system. All activities not covered by
conventions d'6tablissement or international agreements are automatically subject to the
general regime. To underpin these measures, the Government is making a major effort to
improve revenue collection and fight tax evasion. All imports, without exception, will be
subject to pre-shipment inspection by a specialized company. The Government has
decided to similar specialized services, starting June 1, 1994, to inspect timber exports
and ensure that they are properly taxed on their real f.o.b. value.
Wage Bill and Civil Service Reform
12.  In parallel with its actions to reduce the wage bill, the Government intends to
improve resource allocation in the area of non-interest current expenditures. Particular
efforts will be made to increase the relative share of non-wage expenditures in the social,
agricultural, and road maintenance sectors. At the same time, the efficiency of the civil
service will need to be improved substantially to facilitate the appropriate and adequate
delivery of essential public services to the population. The Government has already taken a
number of important steps towards achieving these objectives, and intends to redouble its
efforts in these areas.
13.  The wage cuts effected in 1993 have enabled the Government to contain the civil
service wage bill at about CFA 220 billion in 1993/94, or about 7.5 percent of GDP, down
from CFA 275 billion in 1992/93, about 10.5 percent of GDP. The objective is to bring it
down further, to CFA 192 billion in 1994/95, or 5.5 percent of GDP, and to maintain it at
that nominal level during the next fiscal year. To achieve this objective and, at the same
time, improve the efficiency of the civil service, the Government intends to accelerate
implementation of the administrative and institutional reform program. Under this program,
organizational and staffing reviews are to be prepared in all ministerial departments,



ANNEX VIII
Page 5 of 12
leading to the development of new organizational and staffing plans Lolar:s d'organisation
et d'effectifs - POE). By end-April 1994, POEs were completed and adopted for eight
ministries -- Ministry of Finance (MINFI). Ministry of Plan (MINPAT), Ministry of Industry
and Commerce (MINDIC), Ministry of Civil Service (MINFOPRA), Ministry of Health
(MINSANTE), Ministry of Labor and Social Security (MINTPS), Ministry of National
Education (MINEDUC), and Ministry of Social Affairs (MINASCOF). Effective
implementation of the POEs for MINFI, MINPAT, MINDIC and MINFOPRA will be initiated
before June 30, 1994, and those for MINTPS, MINSANTE, MINEDUC, and MINASCOF
before end-August 1994. The Government has already prepared a document presentir.g
the mechanisms for laying off excess staff, the timing and sequencing of such lay-offs, the
budgetary costs of these staffing reductions, and the savings they are expected to
generate. Implementation of this program will begin with the 1994/95 fiscal year and the
Government is seeking external financial support for this purpose. Furthermore, and with
a view to improving the efficiency of the central administration, the Government will adopt
a revised statute for the civil service (Statut GdndraJ by June 30, 1994, based on the
recommendations provided in the August 1992 review of the legal framework for the civil
service. Finally, the Government intends to set up an integrated computer system to
handle tasks related to payroll and personnel administration.
Other Current Expenditures
14.   To enable the central administration to function properly and to provide the
population with the necessary basic services, the Government realizes it is essential to
allocate an increasing proportion of its resources to non-wage current expenditures, and
particularly to sectors crucial to the country's long-term development, namely primary and
secondary education, health, agriculture, and the maintenance of transport infrastructure.
This new orientation will apply not only to budget appropriations but also to actual
execution of the expenditures.
15.  To this end, the Government intends to make provision in the Budget Law to
increase the non-wage current expenditure appropriations for the Ministry of National
Education (primary and secondary), Ministry of Health, Ministry of Agriculture, and
Ministry of Transport and Public Works over their 1993/94 level. The Government also
pledges to ensure during the fiscal year that these expenditures are entered under first
priority spending in the Cash-Flow Plan [Plan de Tr6soreriel and will be committed fully out
of the budgetary allocations.
Publc Investment Programming
16.   Following a period during which public investments, particularly those financed out
of domestic resources, have declined to a trickle, the Government realizes the importance
of increasing counterpart funding and ensuring that public investments are concentrated
more in development oriented sectors and selected according to economic return criteria.
In preparing the public investment program (PIP) for 1994/95-1997/98, the Government
has taken care to ensure that the public investment budget will increase threefold during
the period (compared to 1993/94) and that the share of education, health, agriculture and
infrastructure in overall investment will rise significantly. In preparing the rolling four-year



ANNEX Vill
Page 6 of 12
PIP and the annual investment budget, the Government will consult the World Bank to
ensure that the investments are of satisfactory content, quality and consistency.
17.  The Government intends to strengthen the entire process of public investment
programming as well as the monitoring of public investment execution. Key steps in the
programming process will be: (i) establishment of an overall level of public investments
based on a framework consistent with the macroeconomic target areas (growth rate,
budget deficit, level of indebtedness, etc.); {ii) investment distribution among the different
sectors, based on a global development strategy; and (iii) intra-sectoral investment
allocation and project selection, based on economic and financial rate of return criteria and
on well-defined sector strategies. To ensure the coherent and transparent execution of
this process and its component stages every year, the Government will arrange for the
ministerial departments concerned to receive clear guidelines regarding selection criteria
and instruments for presentation of projects for inclusion in the PIP, and will take steps to
ensure that the project selection process is properly observed at all levels of government.
Public Procurement
18.   Cameroon's public procurement performance is beset by an increasing number of
problems and the Government intends to undertake a major overhaul of the entire system.
Ranging from lack of precise criteria for bid evaluation to a deficient approach to
shortlisting and under-invoicing by certain importers to minimize or avoid import duties,
these problems are attributable to a number of factors, including: (i) deficiencies in
existing regulations; {ii) limited expertise and absence of logistics in the matter of
procurement within the technical ministries, whose responsibilities in that area have been
taken over by the DGTC (Direction des Grand Travaux du Cameroun); and (iii) the many
and conflicting roles played by DGTC in bid preparation and evaluation and in contract
award and performance.
19.  As the issues relating to the public procurement system constitute a major problem
in the management of public resources -- including the appropriate execution of externally
financed investments - the Government is embarking on a major overhaul of the system,
and intends to take the following steps by December 31, 1994: (i) reform the public
procurement system along the lines recommended at the November 1993 procurement
seminar; (ii) harmonize the regulations of the public procurement code to ensure their
conformity with the rules of the World Bank and the other donors; (iii) improve
coordination and collaboration between the customs authorities and the services in charge
of import and export inspection and control; (iv) strengthen the procurement capacities of
the various ministries concerned; and (v) review the functions of DGTC, the technical
ministries and the National Procurement Board to ensure that their roles are not mutually
conflicting.
Ill. TRADE AND PRICE REFORMS
20.  The Government has come to realize that Cameroon's growth potential can only be
exploited in full through an export-based economic policy and a domestic market that is
free to function without Government intervention. This is particularly important in order to



ANNEX Vill
Page 7 of 12
prevent the emergence of economic rents and to encourage a better allocation of the
country's resources. Given this concern, and to enhance the impact on the economy of the
CFA franc devaluation, the Government has embarked on a comprehensive program of
trade and tariff reform. As mentioned above, a simplified and less distorted tariff structure
(consisting of only four rates) was introduced in February 1994, when all remaining
quantitative restrictions on merchandise imports also were abolished. To supplement the
import liberalization policy, the Government has eliminated all remaining import licenses,
specifically those required for imports of products such as tea, wheat, rica, edible oils,
sugar and textiles, and has revised the General Trading Program [Programme G&6mral des
Echangesl. Finally, with a view to keeping the prices of medicines as low as possible, the
special tax paid by importers of pharmaceuticals will also be abolished, effective July 1,
1994.
21.  In addition to liberalizing trade, the Govemment will complete the process of
domestic retail price deregulation initiated in 1988/89. To ensure that the benefit of the
devaluation is passed on to the producers, guaranteed minimum producer prices for cocoa
and coffee have been retained and doubled for the remainder of the current crop year,
while the producer price for cotton has been raised by more than 50 percent. Prices for
public utilities (electricity and water), public transportation and petroleum products will be
closely monitored and the Government will ensure that productivity gains and cost savings
are translated into price adjustments at the consumer level. All price controls on goods
and services were abolished in January 1994, except in the case of petroleum products,
medicines, textbooks, and monopoly public utilities (electricity, water, public transport,
maritime services and port fees). With a view to mitigating the impact of the price
adjustments in the wake of devaluation, taxes and customs duties on rice, wheat, flour,
bread, sugar, and vegetable oils have been reduced (suspended in the case of rice and
wheat) for a period of 6 months; as of July 1, 1994, these products will again be subject
to the common external tariff.



ANNEX Vill
Page 8 of 12
IV. PUBLIC ENTERPRISE SECTOR REFORM
22.  In view of the unsustainable financial burden and low productivity of the public
enterprise (PE) sector, and to reinvigorate investment, employment and growth, the
Government is launching a new PE reform program designed to expedite the divestiture
process and improve the efficiency and performance of those enterprises remaining in the
public portfolio. The results obtained from the reform program launched in 1989, which
focused mainly on PE rehabilitation, have fallen well short of its objectives, and the
Government realizes that a major shift in policy and strategy is essential. The new
orientations of the PE sector reform policy are set out in the Declaration of Sectoral Policy.
23.  The overriding objective of the PE reform program is to achieve divestiture from
those competitive activities in the production and services sectors that are normally carried
out by private enterprise. The Sectoral Policy Declaration outlines the strategy and
procedures to be observed during the divestiture process, including the annual adoption by
the Government of a slate of at least 10 enterprises targeted for divestiture, which will be
identified in light of the results already obtained and of the current market prospects.
24.  To facilitate an efficient and transparent process of divestiture and public enterprise
monitoring, the Government intends to change the current institutional framework to give
it a more functional format. Responsibility for implementation of the PE reform will be
entrusted to a high-level agency [structure de haut niveau}, staffed by a small team of
experienced technical experts. It will be provided with the necessary material and financial
resources and will be vested with the necessary powers to implement the divestiture
program, and will coordinate activities and call on the services of independent specialized
experts as needed. It will submit its final report to an interministerial decision-making
agency composed of three or four senior officials, which will perform annual evaluations of
the program's progress.
25.  To improve the efficiency of the enterprises retained in the public portfolio, the
Government intends to invest their managers with greater autonomy and accountability. A
draft law clarifying Government-PE relations will be submitted to the November 1994
session of the National Assembly. All public enterprises will be required to prepare their
annual accounts by the legally estabrished deadline and to have them audited annually by
qualified auditing firms. All public enterprises will have a period of two years to bring their
practices into line with generally accepted accounting standards and to improve their
management information systems. Lastly, from end-March 1994, the 17 largest
enterprises will submit quarterly cash-flow statements to the Ministry of Finance, and will
also be required to produce estimated budgets starting in 1994/95.
V. SOCIAL POLICIES
26.     The devaluation and ensuing adjustment process are affecting the various social
groups differently and unevenly. The rural population involved in production and, more
generally, the tradable goods sector should derive immediate benefits from the
devaluation. In contrast, and in conjunction with the recent wage cuts and planned
implementation of the POEs, the devaluation will adversely affect real incomes in the



ANNEX Vill
Page 9 of 12
nontrade sectors, particularly in the case of urban dwellers, whose livelihood depends
primarily on consumption by public sector employees. While the improvement in the
country's international competitiveness and the liberalization of the economy in general,
including the labor market, should lead to higher income levels and provide new
opportunities for all social groups, the Government believes that targeted measures are
essential in order to alleviate the hardships being suffered by the poorest segments of the
population as the adjustment process advances.
27.     To alleviate these problems, the Government has already taken a number of
specific measures. First, to mitigate the impact of the price adjustment on the wage
eamers' purchasing power, trade liberalization has been combined with the elimination of
stabilization taxes [pr6l1vements pour stabilisationl and a sharp reduction in tariffs and
taxes on the four main staples: rice, flour, sugar and palm oil. However, the tariff
reduction for these four staples will be abolished as of July 1, 1994. In the area of
employment, the adverse impact on the vulnerable poor is expected to be partially
mitigated by the employment-creating and labor intensive activities that the Government
intends to deve:op. In the health and education areas, the level of non-wage expenditures
has been raised. The emphasis placed on these sectors will allow for the strengthening of
basic and informal education and of primary health care delivery in the rural areas. To
implement these measures, the Government has prepared a Social Emergency Program
[Programme Social d'Urgence - PSIA within the framework of the adjustment program; this
will have a budget of some CFAF 18 billion and will be put into effect during the second
half of 1994, running for a period of 18 months. The PSU provides for special measures
to protect the poorest segments of the population and improve income distribution.
Following cancellation of the balance of the IBRD loan for the Social Dimensions of
Adjustment Project (SDA), the PSU has been designed to include a Social Action Program
[Programme d'Action Sociale - PRAS] comprising some of the SDA project activities.
These include operation of the SDA management unit (CTC/DSA), which will be
responsible for execution of the PSU under the supervision of the Economic Program
Monitoring Technical Committee [ComitN Technique de Suivi des Programmes
Economiques], the insertion and reinsertion programs, as well as the self-employment and
training programs implemented or managed by the National Employment Fund [Fonds
National de I'Emploi - FNEJ. To monitor social trends and respond as rapidly as possible to
the needs of the poorest groups, the household survey will also be performed on a periodic
basis. Lastly, the education component of the SDA Project has been carried over and its
budget increased to cover the rehabilitation of school buildings and the purchase of bench
desks and teaching materials and to provide financial support for private education. The
PSU also comprises a number of urban sanitation and maintenance activities (garbage
removal, road repair, gutter cleaning, support for extension of the water supply networks,
etc.), health-related activities (provision of supplies and essential drugs for the health care
centers, support for village pharmacies, including the training of their employees, etc.), and
the continuation of other FNE programs (formal and on-the-job training and the promotion
of micro-enterprises). The financing needs of the PRAS are estimated at CFAF 8 billion.
The Government will also take account of the nature of those expenditures in its Loi de
Financess throughout the duration of the PRAS.



ANNEX Vill
Page 10 of 12
VI. SECTOR REFORM POLICIES
Agriculture Sector
28.     The agricultural sector represents the cornerstone of the Government's policy
for achieving sustainable economic growth over the medium-to-long term. Agriculture is
not only the single most important revenue- and foreign exchange-generating sector --
contributing more than 25 percent of Cameroon's GDP and about 30 percent of its export
revenues - but it is the sector with the greatest potential for significant and sustainable
growth. To exploit that potential and to ensure that the improvement in agricultural prices
in the wake of the recent devaluation is translated into increased output, the Government
is currently preparing a comprehensive reform policy for the agricultural sector. While still
under negotiation with the donors traditionally involved in the sector, including the World
Bank, the broad lines of the sectoral adjustment strategy have already been drawn and a
number of specific measures implemented.
29.     The Government's overall strategy for the sector aims at: (i) strengthening
incentives for the producers of primary commodities and processed goods through full
liberalization of the sector; (ii) reducing public and para-public intervention in the sector to
a minimum, leaving all productive activities to the private sector, but working to improve
the efficiency of government intervention in certain areas crucial to a well-functioning
productive environment; and (iii) assuring the efficient and transparent management of
natural, particularly forest, resources.
30.     The production and marketing of non-traditional export crops and arabica coffee
have been fully liberalized, and the robusta coffee, cocoa and cotton subsectors are also
slated for full liberalization. In the case of cocoa and robusta coffee, the current system of
producer reference prices and marketing margins [coOts incompressiblesl is slated for
complete elimination before the start of the 1994/95 crop season. In the meantime, and to
ensure that the benefits of the devaluation are passed on to the producers, the reference
prices for cocoa and robusta coffee have been doubled. Liberalization of the cotton
subsector will proceed more gradually; in the meantime, however, and as an outcome
ofdevaluation, the guaranteed producer price for cotton has been raised 50 percent.
31.     In line with the new PE reform policy, the Government intends to accelerate its
withdrawal frcm productive activities in the agricultural sector so that the private sector
can take over.
32.     To improve the efficiency and transparency of Cameroon's natural resource
management, the Government has presented a Letter of Development Policy for the
environment and the forestry sector and a new Forestry Code has been enacted. As the
new Code contains a number of elements which, upon closer examination, could warrant
revision, the Government intends to submit all amendments to Parliament for examination
and adoption during its November 1994 session. The implementation decrees for the
Forestry Code have been prepared and will be published in June 1994.



ANNEX Vill
Page 11 of 12
Transport Sector
33.     After years of inadequate maintenance of the transport network and
deteriorating financial and technical performance by the public enterprises operating in the
transport sector, the Government realizes that a major change is called for in its overall
transport sector policy. To this end, it is preparing a comprehensive reform policy for the
transport sector, which should be finalized during the second half of 1994. While still
under discussion with the donors traditionally involved in the sector, including the World
Bank, the broad lines of the sector reform policy have already been drawn.
34.     With the overall objective of improving the efficiency and conditions of
transport services and reducing the budgetary and financial costs of the sector, the reform
aims at liberalizing the sector's activities through actions to promote government
divestiture from commercial services and improve the planning and maintenance of the
essential transport network. The reform policy will include measures to enhance the effi-
ciency of service delivery, improve the mobilization of resources for the sector, streamline
customs procedures, etc. The Government is assigning high priority to its plans for rapid
disengagement from the five largest public enterprises in the sector.
Petroleum Sector
35.     To ensure that petroleum production retains its key position in the Cameroonian
economy and to improve the sector's efficiency and resource allocation performance, the
Government believes that a number of reforms are essential. To this end, it is currently
preparing a comprehensive reform policy for the sector, which will be finalized before
September 1994. While still under preparation, the broad lines of the envisaged sector
reforms have already been drawn. These reforms aim at (i) reducing the cost of oil
products; (ii) guaranteeing that the sector generates an appropriate level of fiscal revenues;
(iii) improving transparency within the sector; (iv) improving the incentive system for
exploration and production; and (v) guaranteeing the maintenance of buffer stocks to
supply the domestic market.
36.     The level and structure of petroleum product prices have been revised, iiot only
in response to the devaluation but also to reduce price distortions among the different
products and to minimize the impact of the devaluation on consumers. In particular,
parafiscal charges, such as contributions to the stabilization and equalization funds, have
been abolished. Since February 1994, petroleum products, with the exception of kerosene,
have been subject to the standard customs duty and indirect tax regime as well as to the
specific tax on petroleum products. While helping to raise fiscal revenues, these measures
have made it possible to contain the increase in the retail price of petroleum products and
thus limit the impact of the devaluation on transportation costs. In April 1994, the
Government introduced a mechanism of quarterly price adjustments to bring retail prices
into line with world market trends.
37.     The Government also intends to complete the liberalization of the petroleum
sector over the next two years. The SNH monopoly on crude supply will be eliminated



ANNEX Vill
Page 12 of 12
before end-June 1995, thereby allowing the refinery (SONARA) to import crude directly at
world market prices. The monopolies held by SONARA (refined products) and SCDP
(storage and distribution) will be abolished later, by end-June 1996. The petroleum
distribution companies will then be free to import directly and to contract out the
necessary transport services on the basis of competitive bidding.
38.      The Government intends to implement a number of measures aiming at
improving the efficiency and transparency of the petroleum sector. Along with the other
public enterprises, SNH, SONARA and SCDP will be required to present certified accounts
within six months following the close of their financial year, and will be subject to annual
audits carried out by qualified auditing firms. Starting January 1994, SNH will be required
to produce quarterly projections and accounts covering all financial operations carried out
on its own behalf and on that of the Government. The Govemment intends to gradually
associate private capital with SNH and the other public enterprises in the petroleum sector.
Finally, the Government has decided to review the existing contractual arrangements with
the petroleum companies with a view to establishing an incentive framework to boost ex-
ploration and production; this will be accomplished before the end of 1994.



