Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15682
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
(Credit 2627-CM)
June 5, 1996
Country Operations I
Central African and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                        CFA franc (CFAF)
The CFA franc is pegged to the French Franc at the rate of FFI=CFAF I00
Fiscal Year       Average Exchange Rate
US$1=CFAF
1994                   435.0
1995                   521.5
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURE: METRIC
Metric                                         U.S. Equivalent
I meter (m)                 =       3.2 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)            =       0.62 miles (mi)
I square kilometer (km2)    =       0.39 square mile (sq mi)
I hectare (ha)              =       2.47 acres (a)
I metric ton (t)            =       2,205 pounds (lb)
I kilogram (kg)             =       2.2046 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB          :  African Development Bank
BEAC          :  Bank of Central African States
CIS           :  Interministerial Supervision Council
CTS           :  Economic Program Technical Monitoring Committee
DGTC          :  Central Procurement Agency
ERC           :  Economic Recovery Credit
IDA           :  International Development Association
VIMF          :  International Monetary Fund
MINASCOF   :  Ministry of Social Affairs and the Status of Women
MINDIC        :  Ministry of Industrial and Commercial Development
MINEDUC       :  Ministry of National Education
MINEFI            Ministry of Economy and Finance
MINFOPRA    :  Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MINSANTE           Ministry of Health
MTPS               Ministry of Labor and Social Security
PE                 Public Enterprise
POE                Organization and Staffing Plan
PTT                Post Office and Telecommunications
SAC                Structural Adjustment Credit
SAL                Structural Adjustment Loan
SCDP               Cameroonian Petroleum Distribution Company
SIGIPES            Integrated Computerized System for Civil Service and
Payroll Management
SNEC               National Water Company
SNH                National Oil Company
SNI                National Investment Company
SONARA             National Petroleum Refinery
SONEL              National Electricity Company
TCA                Turnover tax
TIP                Domestic tax on output
TU                 Single tax
UDEAC              Customns Unions of Central African States
Ths documcnt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
Credit 2627-CM
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Pae
Preface
Evaluation Summary ....................i
PART 1.   PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
INTRODUCTION ....................1
Country Background ...................1..............................I
The Devaluation and the Economic Recovery Credit .2..............................2
I. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ................................3
II. ACHIEVEMENT OF THE OBJECTIVES ............................................     4
1. Re-dimensioning and Inproving the Efficiency of the Public Sector .........4
2. Strengthen Production Capacity  ...      ..............................5.......................S
3. Poverty Alleviation ...................................................6............ 6
III. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ....................................8
A. Factors under the Control of the Authorities ............................................8
B. Factors Beyond the Control of the Authorities ........................................8
IV. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME AND SUSTAINABILITY ........................9
V. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK AND THE GOVERNMENT .................9
The Bank ...................9................ 9
The Borrower ...........................1.................         ....... 10
VI. FUTURE OPERATIONS .11
VII. MAJOR LESSONS AND CONCLUSIONS .11



PART II.    BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ............. 13
PART IH.   STATISTICAL INFORMATION ..................................... 22
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments                           22
Table 2:   Related Bank Credits .23
Table 3:   Project Timetable .24
Table 4:   Credit Disbursements .25
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation .26
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation .27
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project .27
Table 8a:  Project Costs .28
Table 8b:    Project Financing                                28
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits                      29
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants in Credit Agreement .  30
Table 11:    Bank Resources - Staff Inputs .31
Table 12:    Use of Bank Resources - Missions .32
APPENDIXES ..............................................................  33
A. Board Conditions and Conditions for Credit Effectiveness
B. Map



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
CREDIT 2627-CM
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic Recovery Credit
(ERC) to the Republic of Cameroon, for which Credit 2627-CM in the amount of SDR
53.1 million was approved on June 16, 1994 and made effective on August 24, 1994. The
credit was released in its entirety upon effectiveness. It was fully disbursed on May 12,
1995.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Lionel Laurant, Consultant (AF3CO) and reviewed by Mr.
Jerome Chevallier, Country Operations Division Chief and Mr. Brendan Horton, Senior
Economist. The Borrower provided its own assessment of the project which is included as
part II of the ICR.
The ICR is based on material in the project file. The Borrower contributed to the ICR by
providing its own evaluation of the project's preparation and execution.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
CREDIT 2627-CM
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    With a population of 12.5 million and a GDP of about US$7.5 billion in 1994,
Cameroon's economy is still, despite a steady decline since the mid-1980s, the largest
economy in the CFA zone. The country is richly endowed with natural resources
(including tropical forests, coastal fisheries, mineral resources, and a fertile agricultural
land), and has a diversified production base and a well-developed, albeit poorly
maintained, infrastructure.  Combined with sound policies and a favorable external
environment, these assets produced average real growth of 7 percent a year from
independence in 1960 through 1985.
2.    From the mid-1980s on, however, three major external shocks adversely impacted
the Cameroonian economy. First, prices of the major export commodities dropped,
leading to a 60 percent deterioration in the external terms of trade by end-1988. Second,
the long-term slide in oil output left oil exports in 1994 at about a third of their 1985 level.
Third, export competitiveness deteriorated as the real exchange rate appreciated by about
54 percent during 1986-88. These shocks, compounded by insufficient Government
commitment to reform, led to mounting macroeconomic difficulties, which a reform
program -- supported by a Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) approved in 1989 -- failed
to address. The regime proved unable to stop the economic decline.
3.    A new macroeconomic program was adopted by the Government in the aftermath
of the devaluation of the CFA Franc (effective January 12, 1994) to secure the country's
international competitiveness and return the economy on to a sustainable growth path. As
part of the emergency package of assistance to the CFA countries, an Economic Recovery
Credit (ERC) and a Stand-by arrangement were approved by the Bank and by the IMF to
support the reform program. The Economic Recovery Credit was identified, appraised,
negotiated and brought to the Board in four months, following exceptional procedures.
To consolidate the early gains from the devaluation, it was made available for
disbursement in one tranche after effectiveness.
Credit Objectives
4.    The credit was designed to provide emergency support to the Government's
program of economic recovery adopted in the aftermnath of the devaluation of the CFA
Franc. The program aimed at redressing the financial imbalances and reversing the
economic decline which set in during the mid-1980s. Within a macroeconomic framework



ii
consistent with this objective, the structural components of the program included a major
overhaul of the tax and tariff system, public enterprise sector and trade reforms, and a
social action program. Reflecting these objectives, the main measures under the Economic
Recovery Credit included: (i) re-dimensioning and strengthening the efficiency of the
public and parapublic sectors; (ii) strengthening production capacity; and (iii) adopting
poverty alleviating measures, including improvements in the delivery of social services to
low-income groups. Prior to Board presentation, and in coordination with its partners in
the regional economic and customs union (UDEAC), the authorities undertook a far-
reaching tax and tariff reform aimed at simplifying the tax system and reducing import
tariffs.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Despite substantial external assistance from bilateral and multilateral donors
(France, European Union, IMF, World Bank and AfDB), as well as debt rescheduling and
relief from the Paris Club, the post-devaluation period did not begin auspiciously. Growth
in FY94 was negative and, as in most other UDEAC countries, budgetary performance
was poor. Revenues declined to an exceptionally low 10.6 percent of GDP, owing partly
to an abnormally low level of customs revenues (caused by outright fraud, unjustified tax
and tariff exemptions, and disruptions linked to the UDEAC tariff reform). The primary
deficit increased. As a result, the first review under the Stand-by could not be completed.
Similarly, the terms of the Paris Club rescheduling could not be met.
6.    This poor performance prompted the President of the Republic to strengthen his
economic team in July 1994. The following month, the IMF program for 1994-95 was
revised to address the major slippages that had occurred under the original program and
provide a new impetus to the reform effort. Fiscal performance in FY95 strengthened
considerably. The Government's overall fiscal deficit was more than halved, to 4.2
percent of GDP, while the primary fiscal balance moved to a surplus of almost 3 percent
of GDP (from a deficit of more than 2 percent a year earlier). Production in the traded
goods sector responded favorably to the change in relative prices. Overall, real GDP
turned around from nearly a decade of decline to an estimated growth of 3.3 percent in
FY95.
7.    While the Government put considerable emphasis on revenue collection in FY95, it
did not move forcefully with the agreed program of structural measures. Those reforms
were eventually completed, but considerable resistance from vested interests had to be
overcome.
Sustainability of Results and Future Operations
8.    Sustainability of results hinges on the pursuit of appropriate macroeconomic
policies and the implementation of supportive reforms that will strengthen external
competitiveness, restore critical public sector capacity, and stimulate private sector
growth. Program sustainability is also dependent on the authorities' ability to overcome



the resistance of powerful interest groups.  The ERC-supported program  has re-
established a real exchange rate consistent with economic competitiveness and laid the
basis for the resumption of export-oriented growth of the economy by improving export
incentives and the attractiveness of the economy for investment. The liberalization of
most prices and the reduction of public involvement in the economy have enhanced
producer incentives and created an environment propitious to private initiative.
9.    Building upon these achievements, a Memorandum of Economic and Financial
Policies issued in September 1995 outlines the Government's macroeconomic objectives
for FY96. A Second Structural Adjustment Credit, along with a new Country Assistance
Strategy, were presented to the Board in February 1996.
Lessons and Conclusions
10.   The Economic Recovery Credit aimed at redimensioning and improving the
efficiency of the private sector; strengthening production capacity; and alleviating poverty.
Program results were broadly satisfactory, although the authorities' initial lack of
commitment resulted in weak budgetary performance in the first half of 1994 and in
delayed implementation of the agreed program of structural reforms.
11.   The scope of the ERC's objectives was commensurate with the extent of the
economic and financial crisis confronting the country, and provided a consistent response
to the parity change of the CFA Franc. However, the ERC lacked a clear strategic focus,
mobilizing in a variety of fields the administration's limited implementation capacity.
12.   The ERC implementation record suggests four observations: (i) the Borrower's
initial perception that the Bank would do its utmost to help Cameroon remain current in
its heavy debt service to the Bank should have been dispelled earlier; (ii) predictability of
Bank support to the adjustment process is a key to restoring credibility; (iii) timely
program implementation hinges closely on early investment in building strong commitment
to reform, as well as availability of institutional capacity to follow through with measures;
and (iv) involvement of civil society is crucial in building consensus on reform and
mobilizing support from socio-economic groups critical to program implementation.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT
CREDIT 2627-CM
PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
INTRODUCTION
Country Background
1.    With a population of 12.5 million and a GDP of about US$7.5 billion in 1994,
Cameroon's economy is still, despite a steady decline since the mid-1980s, the largest
economy in the CFA Franc (CFAF) zone. The country is richly endowed with natural
resources (including tropical forests, coastal fisheries, mineral resources, and a fertile
agricultural land), and has a diversified production base and a well-developed, albeit
poorly maintained, infrastructure. Combined with sound policies and a favorable external
environment, these assets produced average real growth of 7 percent a year from
independence in 1960 through 1985. Until oil production took over in 1978, transforming
the economic structure, agriculture provided most of the growth and foreign exchange
earnings. It remained, however, a major sector of the Cameroonian economy, employing
in 1984-85 close to two thirds of the labor force and generating about two fifths of
exports.
2.    From the mid-1980s on, however, three major shocks adversely impacted the
Cameroonian economy, revealing the fragility of its economic structure and policies. First,
prices of the major export commodities dropped, leading to a 60 percent deterioration in
the external terms of trade by end-1988. Second, the long-term slide in oil output left oil
exports in 1994 at about a third of their 1985 level. Third, export competitiveness
deteriorated as the real exchange rate appreciated by about 54 percent during 1986-88.
These shocks sent the economy into a deep and protracted economic crisis. Real GDP
and per capita income dropped, and internal and external imbalances became severe.
Budget deficits accentuated, the current account balance of payments deteriorated, and a
large build-up of the public external debt took place, leading to service difficulties and
payments arrears of US$1 billion by end-1992.
3.    A Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) was approved in 1989 to address the
mounting difficulties confronting the Cameroonian economy. The program, however,
failed to bring about the required adjustment as: (i) the SAL was founded on deflationary,
internal policies alone which, in the absence of an exchange rate adjustment, could not
possibly restore macroeconomic equilibria and competitiveness of the economy; (ii) the
SAL's overly ambitious coverage was beyond the administrative capacity in a country
subject to a protracted economic crisis and political unrest; and (iii) the Government's lack
of commitment and uncertain leadership was exacerbated by weak public institutions, poor
coordination and rivalries among ministries and agencies.  By December 1993,



2
Cameroon's economy and its external accounts had deteriorated significantly as the
fundamental structural problems remained unaddressed. Since the onset of the vicissitudes
of the Cameroonian economy in 1986, real GDP had declined by about 30 percent, the
real per capita income suffering a 50 percent drop.
4.    Reflecting those conditions, the regime became increasingly isolated, internally and
internationally, as it was unable to stop the economic decline and the rent-seeking
activities of the political elite. Economic hardships exacerbated political tensions as the
Government raised taxes in an effort to maintain its expenditures.  The country
experienced civil unrest in 1991-92. Parliamentary elections in 1992 were boycotted by
the major opposition parties, and did not result in the forming of a broad-based
government with a mandate to resolve the crisis. In a desperate and futile attempt to
correct fiscal imbalances, the Government sharply reduced the civil service wage bill in
1993. While the wage cuts did not unleash a social upheaval, they did not halt the
mounting financial imbalances and, indeed, accentuated corruption and further weakened
public sector capacity
The Devaluation and the Economic Recovery Credit
5.    To bring about the required structural change, the Government of Cameroon,
along with its partner countries in the CFA zone, decided on January 12, 1994, to realign
the parity of the CFA Franc from 50 CFAF/FF to 100 CFAF/FF. A new macroeconomic
program was adopted to secure the country's international competitiveness and return the
economy on to a sustainable growth path. The reform program aimed to: (i) bring
inflation to a level below 5 percent from 1995/96 onwards, following initial adjustments in
relative prices; (ii) attain sustainable real GDP growth of about 5 percent per annum from
1995/96, primarily led by improved competitiveness and export performance; and (iii)
quickly achieve primary and, eventually, overall budget surplus to enable increased
domestic savings, reduce the current account balance deficit and finance an increasing
share of domestic investments. As part of the emergency package of assistance to the
CFA countries, an Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) and a Stand-by arrangement were
approved to support the reform program.
6.    Bank support to Cameroon following the devaluation also included supplemental
credits under the Fifth dimension, as well as a US$50 million Structural Adjustment Credit
(which replaced the third tranche of SAL I when Cameroon became eligible for IDA
resources) aimed at supporting the new macroeconomic framework put in place after the
devaluation. Conditions for SAC release were satisfactorily complied with -- with the
exception of the condition pertaining to the Forestry Code, but adoption of
implementation decrees for the Code was made a condition of effectiveness of the ERC.
The Project Completion Report for the SAL/SAC was circulated in June 1995.
7.    The justification of the Economic Recovery Credit, which aimed to complete the
reform agenda initiated under the SAL, lay in: (i) the necessity to support the post-
devaluation reform program as outlined in the Government's Memorandum on the



3
Economic Recovery; (ii) the need for a rapid intervention to ensure that the price and
incentive effects of the exchange rate action would be accompanied by appropriate
measures to achieve a lasting improvement in competitiveness and growth; and (iii) the
opportunity to break with a period of several years of weak policy dialogue with the Bank.
The Economic Recovery Credit was identified, appraised, negotiated and brought to the
Board in four months, following exceptional procedures. To consolidate the early gains
from the devaluation, it was made available for disbursement in one tranche after
effectiveness.
I. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
8.    The credit was designed to provide emergency support to the Government's
program of economic recovery adopted in the aftermath of the devaluation of the CFA
Franc. The program aimed at redressing the financial imbalances and reversing the
economic decline which set in during the mid-1980s. Within a macroeconomic framework
consistent with this objective, the structural components of the program included a major
overhaul of the tax and tariff system, public enterprise sector and trade reforms, and a
social action program. Reflecting these objectives, the main measures under the Economic
Recovery Credit included: (i) re-dimensioning and strengthening the efficiency of the
public and parapublic sectors; (ii) strengthening production capacity; and (iii) adopting
poverty alleviating measures, including improvements in the delivery of social services to
low-income groups.  The government fulfilled a number of conditions for Board
presentation and effectiveness (see Appendix A). Notably, in coordination with its
partners in the regional economic and customs union (UDEAC), the authorities undertook
a far-reaching tax and tariff reform aimed at simplifying the tax system and reducing
import tariffs.
9.    The scope of the ERC's objectives was commensurate with the extent of the
economic and financial crisis confronting the country. The deflationary process in the
recent years, triggered by adverse extemal shocks compounded by poor economic policy
and management, had left Cameroon with legacies incompatible with sustainable
development: an overextended, inefficient and deficit-ridden public sector; a deteriorating
physical and human capital base and declining productivity; and deepening poverty.
10.   Expedient availability of funds was justified by the need to capitalize on the
momentum created by the devaluation. The risks of program failure, however, largely
debated in the context of the Board discussions, were patent in view of Cameroon's poor
track record as a reformer.  Further, reflecting the Country Assistance Strategy's
widespread coverage, the ERC lacked a clear strategic focus and definite course of action,
mobilizing in a variety of fields Cameroon's weak implementation capacity.
Disbursement in a single tranche was liable to reduce further the credit's policy leverage.
Indeed, the Bank's decision to proceed with the ERC at a time when the IMF-supported
program was veering off-track may have nourished the authorities' perception that the



4
devaluation alone justified assistance, weakening their resolve to implement the structural
reforms agreed upon under the ERC.
IL ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE OBJECTIVES
11.   Structural reforms under the ERC were eventually completed, but considerable
resistance from vested interests had to be overcome. In the first part of 1994, poor
revenue mobilization quickly caused the IMF-supported stabilization program to veer off
track. A new Minister of Finance, appointed in July 1994, succeeded in increasing
Government revenue by 55 percent in FY95. While this effort was being made, however,
structural reforms were postponed for lack of consensus among cabinet members.
Eventually, the Government realized that further Bank support would not be forthcoming
until all actions agreed under the ERC were completed.
1. Re-dimensioning and Improving the Efficiency of the Public Sector
12.   The ERC intended to (i) improve public resource management, so as to attain a
rapid turnaround in the primary fiscal balance; and (ii) carry out a public enterprise (PE)
reform. Fiscal developments in the first half of 1994 were below expectations, affected by
a significant fall in the volume of imports, continued shortcomings in tax administration
(outright fraud, unjustified tariff and tax exemptions benefiting private enterprises) and the
overhaul of the tax system early in the year (implementation of the UDEAC indirect tax
and customs tariffs reform). Government revenue performance improved significantly in
FY95, however, following the strengthening of the tax and customs administration (with
the appointment of a new team at the Ministry of Finance) and the implementation of tax
reforms contained in the budget law for the year.
13.  In particular, the collection of direct taxes and domestic indirect taxes showed a
major upward trend. Government non-oil revenue rose by 60 percent in FY95 compared
with FY94, while oil revenue also recorded a substantial increase. In contrast, customs
duty collection remained weak, reflecting the persistence of tax evasion and discretionary
exemptions. The fiscal position nevertheless improved markedly, with the primary
budgetary balance recording a surplus of 2.9 percent of GDP (coming from a 2.3 percent
deficit in FY94) and the overall budget deficit declining by over 50 percent (to 4.2 percent
of GDP). Owing partly to a sizable shortfall in extemal assistance (triggered by the sharp
deviation from the original program), however, this surplus was unable to prevent the
accumulation of new extemal payments arrears in an amount of US$400 million, bringing
the stock of arrears to US$1.3 billion (16 percent of GDP) at end-June 1995.
14.   Reflecting the authorities' misplaced perception that improved revenue collection
alone would justify a favorable assessment of Cameroon's overall performance under the
ERC, implementation of structural reforms lagged considerably behind schedule in the first
three quarters of 1994.



5
15.   Civil service reform: Implementation of organizational and staffing plans in a
number of ministries (to evaluate the mandate of each administrative unit and determine
which activities or staff positions should be maintained or discontinued) resulted in the
departure of over 5300 civil servants by end-December 1995, close to 18 months behind
the agreed schedule. Nevertheless, a new civil service statute was promulgated in
September 1994 (with the introduction of provisions to terminate employment for
economic motives), and the public wage bill was sharply reduced between FY93 and
FY95, from 9.3 to 4.4 percent of GDP respectively (against the 5.5 percent initially
planned). Implementation of organizational and staffing plans for the remaining ministries
in 1996 will result in the elimination of additional staff. Eventually, the size of the civil
service will be reduced to 152,000 from 181,000 at end-1993.
16.   Public enterprise divestiture: in July 1994, 15 large enterprises in the transport
and agricultural sectors were identified for privatization. Despite initial difficulties linked
to the institutional and legal framework for privatization, five public enterprises were
liquidated by early 1995, two were put under private management contract, and minority
share positions were sold for three other, thus contributing to reduce the financial burden
and low productivity of the public enterprise sector. Some progress was also made from
the latter part of 1994 in selected areas. To improve transparency and accountability, the
accounts of the 17 largest public enterprises have become available since October 1994,
and SNH, the state oil company, has regularly provided data on the oil sector operations
since early 1994. A new General Statute on Public Enterprises was enacted in August
1995, so as to expose public enterprises to market pressures and redefine the liquidation
process.
2. Strengthening Production Capacity
17.   The Economic Recovery Credit contributed to the strengthening of production
capacity in two particular respects:
(i) private initiative has been encouraged: aided by a sharp recovery of international
commodity prices, the adjustment of parity restored incentives to most exports
(including coffee, cocoa, cotton, timber, aluminum, bananas), leading to an 8 percent
increase in Cameroon's non-oil export volume in FY95. Activity in domestically
oriented industries, which contracted in early 1994 in the wake of the sharp drop in
disposable income that followed the devaluation, also expanded in FY95, particularly
for beverages and tobacco. Progress toward the liberalization of the economy, along
with preliminary actions to divest public enterprises, stimulated private sector growth
and generated a more propitious environment to investment (private investment
reached 14.5 percent of GDP in 1995, up by close to 2 percent of GDP from 1993);
(ii) operating difficulties have been reduced: the abolishment of price controls (with
the exception of petroleum products, medicines, textbooks and public utilities) and
the elimination of reference producer prices for coffee and cocoa have enhanced
producer incentives, while more favorable credit conditions contributed to strengthen



6
economic activity. Similarly, owing partly to the stability of wages in the public and
private sectors, the inflation rate (13 percent in FY95, compared with 34 percent in
FY94) was brought down to a level more consistent with sustained competitiveness.
18.   Partly reflecting these changes, the performance of domestic productions has been
strengthened considerably and the devaluation has allowed for the resumption of positive
real growth: overall, GDP turned around from nearly a decade of decline to a growth of
more than 3 percent in FY95.
3. Poverty Alleviation
19.   The measures envisaged under the Economic Recovery Credit included poverty
alleviation and protection for the most vulnerable groups. The negative impact of the
devaluation on the population was limited in three distinct respects:
(i) income growth: aided by a sharp recovery of international commodity prices, the
parity change contributed to the improvement of the welfare of the rural population;
it provided a strong stimulus to economic activity in the tradable goods sector (with
most exports recording strong gains, including coffee, cocoa, cotton, timber,
aluminum and processed food) and improved the economy's attractiveness for
investment, thus laying the groundwork for sustainable development;
(ii) real income protection for the poor: to mitigate the impact of the corrective price
adjustment on wage earners' purchasing power, trade liberalization measures
(introduction of a simplified and less distorted tariff structure, elimination of
quantitative restrictions on imports) were combined with the phasing out of
stabilization tax mechanisms and the reduction of taxes and tariffs on key
commodities (rice, wheat, flour, bread, sugar, vegetable oil) for a period of 6 months;
(iii) shift of resources towards human resource development: to provide more
adequate basic public services to the population, the level of non-wage current
expenditures was raised for primary and secondary education, health, and agriculture
and the maintenance of transport infrastructure (the increases recorded in FY95 over
the previous fiscal year ranged between 36 and 58 percent); the share of those sectors
in total investment was also raised by close to 45 percent during the period.
A Social Action Program was designed in the context of the ERC to finance, as part
of the authorities' Social Emergency Program adopted in the aftermath of the
devaluation, certain unfunded components (including the National Employment Fund
and an expanded education component) of Cameroon's Social Dimensions of
Adjustment (SDA) program (approved in May 1990 and canceled in June 1994).
This program was not implemented, however, for lack of adequate funding.
20.   Despite their contribution to the improvement of the country's human resource
base, the measures undertaken under the program could not possibly fully eliminate the



7
negative impact of the devaluation on the poorest segments of the population.
Notwithstanding the emergence of new opportunities to all social groups as a result of
revived growth and competitiveness, the devaluation and the ensuing adjustment process
have affected the various social groups differently and unevenly. In particular, inflation has
eroded real incomes in the nontradeable sectors, notably that part of the primarily urban
population whose livelihood depends on spending by public sector employees, already
affected by substantial wage cuts and staff reductions. On the other hand, the limited
share of the budget devoted to education, health and social affairs remains equivalent that
granted to defense and internal security (11.6 and 12 percent respectively). The box
below summarizes Cameroon's recent achievements in its adjustment effort, as well as its
unfinished agenda.
Adiustment: Achievements and Unfinished Aeenda
1. Maior achievements
Exchange rate: 50 percent devaluation of the CFA franc (1994).
Trade reform elimination of quantitative restrictions, and adoption of four-tier tariff ranging from 5 to 30 percent in
conjunction with other members of UDEAC (1994); full liberalization of coffee, cocoa trade (1990-94).
Prices: elimination of price controls, except for petroleum products, medicines, textbooks, public utilities, maritime
transport and port services; elimination of price stabilization mechanisms, with exception of petroleum products;
elimination of coffee, cocoa reference prices; elimination of agriculture input subsidies (1989-94).
Financial intermediation: liberalization of interest rates and establishment of regional money market (I 994).
Investment: reform of investment, labor codes (1990, 1992).
Public sector: reform of procurement code (1995); reform of legal framework for public enterprises (1995) and
initiation of privatization program to include all enterprises, including utilities; simplification of indirect taxes
(1994); 50 percent reduction of public sector wages in 1993.
Petroleum sector: opening up of national petroleum company (SNH) books (1994); elimination of SNH monopoly for
the supply of crude oil; elimination of subsidy to the state refinery, SONARA (1995).
Forestry: enactment of new code including transparent concession allocation, and improved forest management
mechanisms (1995).
Other sector reforms. privatization of dredging Douala port (1995).
2. The unfinished aaenda
Making the budget a development tool: increase revenues through eliminating unjustified exemptions, broaden tax
base and strengthen customs and tax administration; increase reliance on expenditure-based taxes versus export
taxation; increase budget allocations to education, health, infrastructure maintenance, agriculture services within
severely constrained overall expenditure envelope.
Civil service reform: rightsize and improve incentives for good performance, improve skills-match, and quality of
public services
Disengage the State from productive activities: accelerate privatization.
Reform the financial sector: liquidate insolvent financial institutions; privatize state-run banks; strengthen banking
supervision.
Eliminate arrears and establish good payment track record: securitize internal debt and maintain good payment
record
Reinforce judiciary system: restore adequate compensation, eliminate political interference, strengthen supervision
of judges.
Improve business environment: harmonize business laws with CFA zone; streamline regulatory framework and
reduce transport and transaction costs (especially inland, maritime and air transport).



8
[IL MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
A. Factors under the Control of the Authorities
21.   Program  implementation was seriously compromised by insufficient initial
commitment to reform and weaknesses in administration, reflecting an initial failure to
sufficiently intemalize the program and create an effective mechanism for forceful and
timely government action. Program implementation was consequently affected in four
different respects:
(i) tax evasion and unjustified tariff and discretionary tax exemptions benefiting certain
goods and companies contributed to the poor government revenue performance
recorded in the first half of 1994. As a result, the first review under the parallel
Stand-by could not be completed, and the terms of the Paris Club rescheduling
could not be met;
(ii) weak government credibility and economic hardship nourished civil disobedience
(tax evasion, fraud, corruption in key civil service branches) and discouraged
support from socio-economic groups essential for program implementation, thus
challenging the implementation of the reform agenda and contributing to the poor
fiscal performance recorded in the first half of 1994;
(iii) weaknesses in administration and insufficient commitment to reform, nourished by
opposition from vested interests and long-entrenched corruption in the public
sector, caused disruptions that delayed implementation of structural reforms in the
first three quarters of 1994;
(iv) poor customs duty collection, compounded by a sizable shortfall in external
assistance (triggered itself by the sharp deviation from the original program)
jeopardized the effective stabilization of the macroeconomic framework and
contributed to a net accumulation of external payments arrears (the stock of
external payments arrears was brought up by US$400 million at end-June 1995, to
some 16 percent of GDP). Government arrears to the nonfinancial private sector
still amounted to some US$780 million (9 percent of GDP) by the end of FY95,
thus hampering private sector growth.
B. Factors beyond the Control of the Authorities
22.   Program  implementation was also affected by unfavorable overall economic
developments. A reduction of the tax base following the initial slow down of economic
activity during the first three quarters of 1994 (as domestic demand was adversely affected
by inflation) hindered revenue collection, contributing to the poor fiscal performance
mentioned earlier. Activity in the formal sector was also hampered by a lack of confidence
motivated by uncertain economic perspectives.



9
IV. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME AND SUSTAINABILlTY
23.   Program results were broadly satisfactory, providing a necessary base on which
deeper reforms could be built. The ERC-supported program has re-established a real
effective exchange rate consistent with economic competitiveness (with a lower rate of
inflation) and laid the basis for the resumpfion of export-oriented growth of the economy
by improving export incentives (notably to the key sectors of coffee, cocoa, and timber)
and the attractiveness of the economy for investment. The liberalization of most prices
and the reduction of public involvement in the economy have enhanced producer
incentives and created an environment propitious to private initiative.
24.   Sustainability of results remains heavily dependent on the pursuit of appropriate
macroeconomic policies and the implementation of supportive reforms that will support
external competitiveness, restore critical public sector capacity, and stimulate private
sector growth. Program sustainability also hinges on: (i) a strong leadership committed to
change and willing to overcome the resistance of powerful interest groups; and (ii) the
evolution of the country's external environment (especially developments in Nigeria and
changes in world prices of its main export commodities). Areas for further reform
include: attaining macroeconomic stability and improving public resource management;
promoting private sector development (especially exports); and raising living standards in
an environmentally sustainable manner, through higher factor productivity. Continued
donor support is required to assist Cameroon implement these reforms and reach over
time a more viable fiscal situation.
V. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK AND THE GOVERNMENT
The Bank
25.   The Bank's performance in the design and monitoring of the Economic Recovery
Credit was broadly satisfactory:
(i) Design: the scope of the ERC's objectives was commensurate with the extent of the
economic and financial crisis confronting the country. The ERC was also well in line
with the Country Assistance Strategy, and provided a consistent response to the parity
change of the CFA Franc.
Bank performance in the design of the operation, however, may have failed to fully
appreciate the administration's capacity limitations and insufficient commitment in the
early stages of program implementation. Reflecting the Country Assistance Strategy's
widespread coverage, the ERC lacked a clear strategic focus and definite course of
action, mobilizing in a variety of fields Cameroon's weak implementation capacity.
Compounded by the authorities' weak commitment, as well as repeated signals from
the donor community that the devaluation would trigger massive assistance, this



10
element contributed to the poor budgetary performance recorded in the initial stages of
the credit and in delayed implementation of the agreed structural reforms.
(ii) Monitoring: close monitoring by the Bank and the Fund contributed to the
turnaround in performance starting in the second half of 1994. In addition to two
supervision missions, program implementation was monitored in the context of the
preparation of follow-up operations and a new Country Assistance Strategy. These
missions were instrumental in focusing assistance on key activities for the success of the
program.
The exceptional procedures under which the ERC was appraised, negotiated and
brought to the Board left little room for consensus building and assistance toward
program internalization. Reflecting these elements, the authorities' lack of commitment
to reform resulted in poor fiscal performance in the early stages of program
implementation.
The Government
26.   Government performance in implementing the reform program was mixed, as
insufficient commitment on the part of the authorities to overcome conflicting political
interests and forestall weaknesses in administration (tax evasion, corruption in key civil
service branches) caused a weak budgetary performance in the initial stages of credit
implementation.   These elements, along  with  opposition  from  vested  interests
compounded by a legacy of heavy-handed public intervention in the economy, were
reflected in the failure to create an effective mechanism for forceful and timely government
action. As a result, reflecting the authorities' misplaced perception that the devaluation
alone justified Bank assistance, considerable delays were incurred in the implementation of
structural reforms.
27.   In the second part of 1994, however, the authorities took remedial action to
address the shortcomings observed earlier. First, to improve program ownership and
remedy administrative weaknesses, the Government strengthened its economic team in
July 1994 (with the appointment of a new Minister of Economy and Finance). The
authorities also made a determined effort to improve revenue performance by tightening
controls and re-establishing export duties on key exports, resulting in a 55 percent
increase in total revenue from the previous year. Further, to signal their commitment to
reform, and to establish a credible record of policy implementation, the authorities adopted
a revised adjustment program for FY95 which aimed at addressing the major slippages
that had occurred under the original program and at providing a new impetus to the
reform effort. Finally, the stabilization of wages in the public and private sector mitigated
inflationary pressures and allowed Cameroon to preserve substantial gains in
competitiveness after the devaluation.



11
VI. FUTURE OPERATIONS
28.   The authorities are now fully aware of the need to give unmistakable signals to
economic agents and donors alike regarding their resolution to pursue economic reforms.
The Government's vision is to implement policy reforms that would ensure
macroeconomic stability and improved public resource management; promote private
sector development, especially exports; and raise living standards in an environmentally
sustainable fashion, through higher factor productivity.
29.   Recognizing that the achievements brought about by the post-devaluation support
operations provide a necessary base on which a deeper program could be built, a
Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policies issued in September 1995 outlines the
Government's objectives for FY96 and indicates a commitment to deeper reforms. It sets
out the macroeconomic objectives for the period and describes the macroeconomic and
structural policies to achieve these objectives. A Second Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC 2) was presented to the Board in February 1996 to support the implementation of
the Government's adjustment program in the areas of public resource management and
financial sector reform. It is embedded in a new Country Assistance Strategy aimed at: (i)
consolidating the benefits of the devaluation, (ii) alleviating poverty, and (iii) creating a
climate conducive to private sector development.
VII. MAJOR LESSONS AND CONCLUSIONS
30.   The Economic Recovery Credit aimed at redimensioning and improving the
efficiency of the private sector, strengthening production capacity; and alleviating poverty.
Program results were broadly satisfactory, although the authorities' initial lack of
commitment, fueled in part by signals from the donor community that the devaluation
would trigger massive assistance, resulted in weak budgetary performance in the initial
stages of the credit and in delayed implementation of the agreed structural reforms.
31.   The scope of the ERC's objectives was commensurate with the extent of the
economic and financial crisis confronting the country, and provided a consistent response
to the parity change of the CFA Franc. Bank performance in the design of the project,
however, may have failed to fully appreciate the administration's capacity limitations and
insufficient commitment in the early stages of program implementation. Reflecting the
1994 Country Assistance Strategy's widespread coverage, the ERC lacked a clear
strategic focus and strong course of action, mobilizing in a variety of fields Cameroon's
weak implementation capacity.
32.   The slippages in performance were compounded by adverse external factors,
namely an initial reduction of the tax base. On the other hand, economic performance was
helped by favorable world market commodity prices, contributing to the strong upturn in
the tradable goods sector that was recorded in FY95



12
33.   The ERC's implementation record suggests the following observations:
(i) proposal of a large program of Bank assistance at the time of ERC approval,
despite faltering Government revenue performance, may have fostered the
Borrower's perception that Bank assistance would be forthcoming, if only to assist
the Government service a heavy debt burden. In turn, this may have weakened the
Government's commitment to reform. In the course of 1995, however, it became
clear to all parties concerned that a high level of adjustment lending would only be
justified by strong performance in implementing the reform program,
(ii) predictability of Bank support to the adjustment process is a key to restoring
credibility. In this respect, in designing a one-tranche adjustment operation, it is
important to reach agreement with the Borrower on key actions that would justify
further Bank support;
(iii) timely program implementation hinges closely on early investment in building
strong commitment to reform, as well as availability of institutional capacity to
follow through with measures. The encouraging performance recorded from the
second part of 1994 was clearly linked to the strengthening of the Government's
economic team,
(iv) involvement of civil society is crucial in building consensus on reform and
mobilizing support from socio-economic groups critical to program
implementation (private sector, government officials and civil servants, trade
unions). Little attempt was made to create the necessary understanding of the
content of the program among those groups. Poor administrative coordination and
civil disobedience, fueled by weak government credibility and insufficient
awareness of the adjustment effort undertaken in Cameroon, clearly contributed to
the poor revenue performance recorded in the first half of 1994 and the failure to
provide for timely implementation of structural reforms.



13
PART II: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
1.    Oversight for the Economic Recovery Credit
Implementation of the Economic Recovery Credit was entrusted to the
Interministerial Supervision Council (C.onseil Interminist&riel de Supervision -- CIS)
headed by the Minister of the Economy and Finance and composed of senior government
officials in the economic sectors, especially finance, industrial and commercial
development and agriculture as well as the Director General of the National Investment
Company (Societ Nationale de l 'Investissemetnt -- SNI) and the National Director of the
Central Bank. The Interministerial Supervision Council was assisted by an Economic
Program Technical Monitoring Committee (ComWe Technique de Suivi des Programmes
Economiques -- CTS) in charge of preparing the working documents, laying the bases for
decision-making by the Interministerial Supervision Council and ensuring technical liaison
with donors and the periodic monitoring of the implementation of the Economic Recovery
Credit (ERC). The members of the Economic Program Technical Monitoring Committee
were senior officials of the Central Government and the Chairman of the Public Enterprise
Rehabilitation Technical Commission and the Director General of the Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement. The CTS reported to a Permanent Secretariat and was coordinated by
the Forecasting Director of MINEFI. Sectoral subcommittees were also set up, and
crossed multiple disciplinary lines throughout the ministerial departments dealing with
economic issues.
One intended effect of ensuring linkages with multiple areas of expertise in the
economic, finance and social ministries was to enhance access to useful information for the
monitoring of the ERC.
2.    Implementation of measures
The matrix of the main structural measures related to the Economic Recovery
Credit contained 49 measures in the following categories:
-     monetary situation
-     public finance
-     external debt
-     tax and tariff reform
-     civil service reform
-     budget policy
-     government procurement
-     trade and price reform
-     public enterprise sector
the agriculture sector
the petroleum sector.



14
Each measure in the matrix had an implementation timetable. Implementation
performance is summarized below:
Monetary situation
The objectives of the initial program had been revised and the quantitative targets
were to be tracked between July 1, 1994 and March 31, 1995. These measures sought to
improve net domestic assets.
Three measures were planned:
(a)   Ceiling on the increase in the net domestic assets of the banking system:
Evaluated at CFAF 1091 billion in the initial program, the ceiling on the increase in net
domestic assets was revised upwards to CFAF 120.3 billion. By March 31, 1995, the
increase was CFAF 48.25 billion.
(b)   Ceiling on the increase in net claims of the banking system on the Central
Government: The initial objective was to reach CFAF 13.5 billion; after revision, the
quantitative target was CFAF 30 billion. By March 31, 1995, the increase was CFAF 9.96
billion.
(c)   Ceiling on the increase in net claims of the banking system  on the non-
financial public sector: By March 31, 1995, the increase was CFAF 28.12 billion, as
compared with the revised objective of CFAF 39.4 billion (initial program: CFAF 13.5
billion).
All of these measures were implemented, although the revised objectives were not
achieved.
Public finance
Better mobilization and sounder management of public sector resources was the
backbone of all efforts to reduce financial disequilibria in order to restart economic
growth. A number of synchronized measures were consequently planned to appreciably
improve the mobilization and management of public sector resources. The measures
sought (i) a marked and rapid increase in domestic receipts; (ii) appropriate controls of the
wage bill for the civil service along with sweeping civil service reforms; (iii) a significant
increase in expenditures among the various sectors; (iv) a substantial improvement in the
programming and implementation of public investments; and (v) overhaul of the public
procurement system.
Specifically, two key measures were included in the matrix of planned measures:
(a)    Floor on the primary budget balance, excluding foreign-financed investments
on a commitment basis: This measure was implemented on schedule and the primary



15
budget balance was above the floor of CFAF 82.5 billion, reaching CFAF 114.52 billion.
The objective has therefore been achieved.
(b)   Floor on non-petroleum revenue of the Central Government: Non-petroleum
revenue also performed well, since the floor of CFAF 301 billion had been met. At March
31, 1995, non-petroleum revenue was CFAF 307.92 billion, reflecting the efforts made by
the authorities to ensure collection.
External debt
Three measures were recommended:
(a)   Floor on the net reduction of the external payments arrears of the public sector
(excluding external arrears due to foreign commercial banks);
(b)   Ceiling on new non-concessional external loans contracted or guaranteed by the
Government with a maturity of 1 to 10 years or 1 to 15 years;
(c)   Ceilings on the net disbursement of external loans with a maturity of less than one
year (excluding normal import financing).
The initial timetable for the implementation of these measures could not be met.
Tax and tariff reform
The implementation of the tax and tariff reforms decided in January 1994 was a
keystone of the efforts to increase revenue.  In February 1994, the Cameroonian
authorities adopted a new tariff schedule and abolished all quantitative restrictions. A
turnover tax (TCA) was made effective as of February 1, 1994. Also in connection with
these reforms, six other measures were to be implemented. All of these in fact became
reality, namnely:
(a)   Transfer to the TCA regime of all enterprises previously subject to the TU
and TIP regimes: This measure boosted receipts in 1994/95, when some CFAF 37
billion was collected.
(b)   Taxation on exports of logs FOB at the minimum rate of 20%: This measure
became effective under the 1994/95 Finance Law, and was to generate CFAF 21 billion
for the State budget from the forestry sector.
(c)   Simplification of the structure of the tax system and decrease in the number
of rates as wel as expansion of the tax base: This measure was taken into account in
the 1994/95 Finance Law.
(d)   Submission of all imports and exports of logs prior to loading to inspection



16
by a specialized company: Decree no. 94/505 of October 5, 1994 setting forth the means
of application of Law no. 88/007 of July 15, 1988, which introduces the inspection and
control tax, ensured the effectiveness of this measure.
The other measures involved special tax and tariff benefits for private enterprises, a
survey of exemptions and agreements as well as the launching of renegotiations,
application of tax and tariffs ordinary law to all public enterprises, with the abolition of all
charters granting preferential tax and tariff treatment. All these measures were taken by
the Government under the 1994/95 Finance Law, reflecting the commitment of the
Cameroonian authorities to implementing the tax and tariff reforms.
Civil service reform
1.    Reduction in the wage bill: In the wake of the courageous measures taken by the
Government (including two salary cuts in January and November 1993), this measure was
introduced on schedule. The annual salary bill in 1994/95 was CFAF 190 billion, as
compared with CFAF 300 billion in 1990/91, i.e. a decrease in relative nominal terms of
37%.
2.    Implementation of POEs: Civil Service Staffing Plans (Plans d'Organisation et
d'Effectifs -- POEs) were to be completed by (a) December 31, 1994 for the Ministry of
Civil Service and Administrative Reform (MINFOPRA), the Ministry of Industrial and
Commercial Development (MINDIC) and (b) January 31, 1995 for the Ministry of the
Economy and Finance (MINEFI). These deadlines could not be met. Owing to certain
difficulties, there was a lag of almost one year. However, the measures are now in place
today. As a result, 105 agents have been pared from the staff of MI4NFOPRA, 285 from
MINDIC and 2,241 from MINEFI.
POEs were also to be completed in a group of four social ministries, namely the
Ministry of Labor and Social Security (MTPS), the Ministry of National Education
(MfNEDUC), the Ministry of Health (MINSANTE) and the Ministry of Social Affairs and
the Status of Women (MINASCOF). Signature of the decrees resulting from the studies
had been significantly delayed, which led to changes in the original timetable.  The
deadline was moved forward to November 30, 1995. The list of those being separated
from the various ministries was issued on that date, but owing to certain administrative
problems with the donor (European Union), the checks for final separation payments for
those terminated from the civil service were issued some two months late. All told, this
measure is now operational. Significantly, the measures adopted by the Cameroonian
authorities had made it possible to bring staffing levels (including personnel with tenure)
down from 188,200 in December 1990 to 164,946, i.e. a decrease in absolute terms of
23,254 people and in relative terms of 12.3%.
The other measures involved the adoption of a timetable for completion of the civil
service reforms, formulation and implementation of the Integrated Computerized System
for civil service and payroll management (SIGIPES) and, in particular, adoption of the



17
General Civil Service Statutes.   These measures also met with some delay in
implementation, but all have become reality. The POE timetable set December 31, 1996
as the deadline for completion of the civil service reforms, whereas the new civil service
statutes were promulgated by Decree no. 94/199 of October 7, 1994. With regard to
SIGIPES, the delay was due in particular to the ordering of equipment. Preliminary
testing was only carried out in March 1996, although initially the consultant was to deliver
the system by December 31, 1995. The completion date for that operation was moved
forward to December 31, 1996.
Budget policy
The Government had decided to allocate a large share of its resources to non-wage
current expenditures, particularly in sectors key to the long-term development of the
country, such as primary and secondary education, health, agriculture and upkeep of
transport infrastructure. Consequently, under the Finance Law for fiscal 1994/95, budget
appropriations for non-wage current expenditures were increased. In addition, those
expenditures had to be among the top-priority items in the Treasury Plan. To that end, six
measures were to be taken into account in the Finance Law for fiscal 1994/95, all of which
were put into practice and which consisted essentially of
-     increasing the non-wage current expenditures of the ministries involved in primary
and secondary education, health, agriculture, transport and public works;
-     abrogating all provisions allowing the allocation of tax payments by public
enterprises to extra-budgetnry expenditures outside Public Treasury channels;
-     avoiding the accumulation of new external payments arrears, with the exception of
arrears vis-a-vis the commercial banks;
securitizing domestic arrears owed to the financial and non-financial sector;
-     adopting appropriate legislation on the securitization of arrears (under the Finance
Law) and concluding bilateral agreements for the consolidation of domestic arrears owed
to public agencies; and
lastly, adopting a Finance Law for 1994/95 consistent with program objectives.
Nonetheless, there was some accumulation of arrears under the program, owing to the
delayed availability of the financial support expected under bilateral agreements.
Public procurement
In order to avoid jurisdictional conflicts, the Government proposed to implement
the following measures by December 31, 1994: (i) reform of the public procurement
system, taking into account the recommendations of the November 1993 Kribi seminar on



18
public procurement; (ii) harmonization of public procurement regulations with the rules
imposed by the donors, including the World Bank; (iii) strengthening of coordination and
cooperation between customs offices and those in charge of the inspection and control of
imports and exports; (iv) strengthening of the powers of the ministries involved in public
procurement; and (v) redefinition of contracts awarded to DGTC, the technical ministries
and the National Procurement Commission. Discussions with the donors were lengthy
and the initial timetable could not be met.  Nevertheless, all these measures were
ultimately implemented and the Cameroonian authorities adopted a new procurement
code.
Price and trade reform
In an effort to strengthen the effects of the devaluation of the CFAF on the
economy, the Government undertook important reforms in the area of trade and tariffs.
Consequently, a simplified tariff structure entailing less distortion (i.e. only 4 rates) was
adopted in February 1994.  Simultaneously, all quantitative restrictions applicable to
imported goods were eliminated. In supporting the import liberalization policy, the
Government eliminated all import licenses, in particular for tea, wheat, rice, vegetable oils,
sugar and textiles. Major modifications were also made to the General Trade Program.
Moreover, in addition to the liberalization of trade, the Cameroonian authorities
continued their efforts that had begun in 1988/89 to deregulate domestic retail prices.
Several other measures were also taken in order to ensure competitiveness of the economy
(guaranteed minimum producer prices for cocoa and coffee were maintained and doubled
for the rest of the season, the producer price for cotton doubled, and rates for public
services -- water and electricity --, public transport and petroleum products were closely
monitored to ensure that the gains in productivity and reduction in production costs did
not lead to adjustments in producer prices). Price controls for goods and services across
the board were partly eliminated in January 1994.
In the area of trade and price reform, six important measures were targeted,
namely: (a) elimination of the specific tax paid by importers of pharmaceutical products;
(b) taxation based on the common external rate for imports of rice, wheat, flour, sugar and
vegetable oils; (c) abolition of price controls on fish, rice, sugar, flour and oil; (d) abolition
of reference producer prices for coffee and cocoa; (e) review of the structure of
production and distribution costs (SNEC, SONEL, PTT); and, lastly, (f) adjustment of
charges for public services (SNEC, SONEL, PTT). All these measures were implemented
under the Finance Law for fiscal 1994/95.
Public enterprise sector
Given the untenable financial burden for the State and the low productivity of
public enterprises on the one hand, and the fact that the reforms begun in that sector in
1989 -- focused essentially on enterprise rehabilitation -- did not achieve the expected
objectives, a radical change in policy and strategy was vital. The new orientations of



19
public enterprise reform are contained in the general policy statement for the sector.
Three measures had been decided for the public enterprise sector.  The
Cameroonian authorities were to establish a high-level entity to oversee public enterprise
reforms. This measure was not implemented until March 29, 1995, seven months behind
schedule (August 31, 1994), with the publication of Decree no. 95/056 of March 29,
1995, which reorganized the public and parapublic enterprise Rehabilitation Mission.
In addition, the retrospective quarterly accounts were to be produced for the 17
largest public enterprises. This was done.
Lastly, the General Statutes for public enterprises were to be promulgated. There
was some delay in the implementation of this measure, as with all measures in the
legislative ambit.
Agricultural sector
The overall strategy in the agricultural sector aimed at strengthening incentives for
producers of basic commodities and manufactured products through complete
liberalization of the sector. Efforts were also to be made to reduce the role of public and
parapublic enterprises as much as possible, leave production activities to the private sector
and improve the efficiency of State intervention in certain areas vital to an adequate
production system. The last aspect of the strategy aimed at efficient and transparent
management of natural resources, in particular forestry resources. The measures were
consequently as follows:
-     elimination (before the start of the 1994/95 crop season) of the system of fixed
costs ["sys&eme des couts incompressibles"] for cocoa and robusta coffee. This measure
was put into place and, in accordance with the terms of Circular no. 0162/M1NDIC/CAB
of December 23, 1994, annual price stabilization was eliminated;
-     publication of the implementing decree for the Forestry Law  (Decree no.
94/436/PM of August 23, 1995);
-     adoption and promulgation of the law amending the new Forestry Code. This
measure was more difficult to implement and the planned amendments were reflected in
the implementing decree referred to above.
Petroleum sector
The Government was to complete the liberalization of the petroleum sector in the
next two years. The monopoly of SNH on the supply of crude oil had been ended by the
end of June 1995, which was to enable the refining company (SONARA) to import crude
direct at world market prices. Subsequently, the monopolies of SONARA (on refined
products) and SCEP (on transport) were to be eliminated by the end of June 1996.



20
In an effort to improve the efficiency and transparence of the petroleum sector,
SNH, SONARA and SCDP were to submit certified accounts with the six months
following the closing of their fiscal years; financial audits of those companies were also
supposed to be made by qualified auditors. Lastly, an incentive framework was to be
established to promote efforts in the areas of exploration and production. These measures
were implemented, albeit behind schedule.
Other measures
Other measures were:
-     six-monthly production of the balance of payments. The Government was tardy in
the production of this tool for economic analysis.  The measure was implemented
somewhat behind schedule. Planned for October 31, 1994, the balance of payments for
the first half of 1994 was made available on August 28, 1995;
-     preparation and signature of the regulations for the Labor Code. This measure
was implemented on schedule (June 30, 1994).  Two important texts ensure the
effectiveness of this measure, namely Arr&e no. 001/CAB/MTPS of February 14, 1995
regarding allowances for workers temporarily laid off, and Decree no. 95/099/PM of
February 17, 1995, setting the guaranteed minimum interprofessional wage.
LESSONS TO BE DRAWN
(i)   The circumstances surrounding the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) were not
the same as those facing the program it was to support. While the ERC aimed essentially
at reducing the size of the public sector, strengthening its efficiency and production
capacity, as well as the development of operations to support devaluation, the program
had been designed in a context where devaluation was not planned.
(ii)   There were no strict guidelines or indications for use of the ERC, which gave it a
certain amount of flexibility. It is therefore easy to understand why the ERC was used to
pay external debt arrears. However, importantly, the Government continued to implement
the measures of the IMF program.
(iii)  The ERC was thus perceived more as a form of budget support, a breath of
oxygen that was to motivate the Government in its economic recovery efforts.
Circumstances were such that the structural reforms were introduced slowly; this can be
interpreted as a lack of enthusiasm on the part of the public, non-support for the proposed
measures (given the fact of multipartyism) and much less as an insufficient commitment on
the part of the Government to implement the reforms.



21
CONCLUSION
The implementation of certain measures associated with the ERC admittedly ran
into delays, but in general the objectives were achieved, which made it possible to lay the
bases for a sounder program and to consider more indepth reforms. Despite disappointing
tax revenue at the start of the ERC, exacerbated by certain contingencies (shrinkage in the
taxable base), the economy performed well in 1995.  Renewed competitiveness for
Cameroon and sustainable and balanced economic growth are now feasible. The dialogue
with donors is returning to normal and a reform program supported by the stand-by
arrangement concluded with the IMF is operational.



HDHDES ]]di% D DDDDDDDCHDDDD'!-
LJLJ  n;nnnHn  n    R
D --DDDHD-H--HH- -'I
DCDDA       DLD   iDDDDDDD
Hi.
IIi ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ --       ----      
IIIiI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
[JW~~~~~~~~ -DDDDDDDRDDDDI - 



23
Table 2
Related Bank Credits
Credit                    Credit                         Purpose                       Year of                   Status 
Title                   Number                                                       Approval|
Preceding operations
1. Economic Management project        Ln. 31 10-CM   Support the Governmenfs reform program             1989   Closed. PCR completed
2. Social Dimensions of Adjustment    Ln. 3206-CM  Provide assistance to Government in its attempts to  1990   After 4 years of unsatisfactory performance,
reestablish growth with equity and to help alleviate the   the Government requested the cancellation
impact of the structural adjustment program                of the balance by end -June 1994
3. Structural Adjustment Loan         Ln. 3089-CM  Redress the substantial decline in GDP and achieve real  1989   Closed. PCR completed. Following thc parity
per capita income growth by 1995; enhance                  change, and in view of Cameroon's lack of
competitiveness through intrenal adjustment measures;      creditworthiness for IBRD lending, the
reorient the role of the State away from direct market     Government requested the cancellation of
intervention and into a supporting role for private sector  the third tranche and its replaccmcnt by an
development; and reduce the scope of government            equivalent one-tranche SAC credit
economic activity and reorient public services
4. Structural Adjustment Credit        Cr. 2576-CM   Support the new macroeconomic framework put in place    1994   Closed. PCR completed. The SAC's conditions
after the devaluation of the CFA franc in January 1994     were those established for the release of the
canceled third tranche of the SAL
5. Structural Adjustmenl Credit       Cr. 2813 -CM   Improve public finance mobilization and management,  1996   The SAC's first tranche was disbursed in
restructure the financial sector and create a favoarble     February
environment for private scetor development through
state divestiture and regulatory reform



24
Table 3
Proiect Timetable
Date                  Date actual/
Steps in Project Cycle             Planned u2              latest estimate
Identification (Initiating Memorandum)                       January 10-14, 1994
Preparation                                                  4 months
Appraisal                           March 28 - April 14, 1994   March 28 - April 14, 1994
Negotiations                        May 9-14, 1994           May 9-14, 1994
Letter of Development Policy                                 April 11, 1994
Board                               June 16, 1994            June 16, 1994
Signing                             June 23, 1994            June 23, 1994
Effectiveness                       June 30, 1994            August 24, 1993
Project completion
Credit closing                      June 30, 1995            May 12, 1995
\2 As provided in the Presidenfs Report.



25
Table 4
Credit Disbursements
Estimated and Actual
FY
1995
(USS millions, unless indicated otherwise)
Appraisal estimate                            75.0
Actual disbursement                           75.0
Actual as % of estimate                       100%
Date of final disbursement                May 12, 1994



Table 5                                                26
Key Economic Indicators
1990       1991       1992       1993       1994       1995
National Accounts (as %GDP at
current market prices)
Gross Domestic Product                 100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0
Agriculture                          24.2        25.0       26.2       31.8       31.8       32.2
Industry                             29.4        27.5       25.9       27.6       27.6       27.4
Services                             40.6       42.4        42.4       34.5       34.3       32.8
Total Consumption                      85.3       81.7       85.1       85.1       80.5        78.0
Gross Domestic Fixed Investment        18.0       16.9       14.6        14.5       14.2       15.5
Govemment Investment                  5.5        4.0        2.7        1.9         1.1        1.0
Private Investment                    12.5       12.9       11.9       12.6       13.2       14.5
Exports                                20.6       21.1       20.9       19.4       29.3        31.5
Imports                                24.4       19.7       20.6       19.0       24.0        25.0
Gross Domestic Product (US$ million   11043.0    12239.0    11185.0    11086.0    7459.0      8510.0
at current prices)
Gross National Product per capita     950.0       890.0      900.0      820.0      668.2      625.2
(US$, Atlas method)
Gross Domestic Product at market       -4.5       -6.7       -4.8       -2.2       -3.8        3.3
prices (%/o, calculated from 1980 prices)
Balance of Payments (US$m)
Exports                               2274.6     2585.6     2341.7     2152.9     2185.7     2677.6
Imports                               2690.4     2415.8     2306.8     2108.1     1792.2     2128.4
Net current transfers                 340.9       729.3      679.1      378.9      79.6       -8.7
Current Account balance               -690.0      10.1      -179.1     -426.8     -243.3     -262.6
Resource balance (% of GDP at
current market prices)                 -3.8        1.4        0.3        0.4        5.3        6.5
Real Annual Growth rates (1980 prices)
Merchandise exports                   1.9       -9.5        2.6        -3.8       1.1        2.2
Merchandise imports                   5.1       -3.6       -10.2       -1.9       4.6        12.1
Public Finance (as % of GDP at
current market prices)
Current revenues                       14.4       15.4       16.0       14.6        10.6       12.0
Current expenditures                   16.3       18.2       19.3       18.4        16.8       15.1
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)  -1.9  -2.8       -3.3       -3.8        -6.2      -3.1
Capital expenditure                     5.8        5.5        3.5        3.0        3.5        1.1
Foreign financing                       5.4        1.9        8.6        0.1       -0.7       -1.6
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market prices)      16.1       17.7       17.5       16.7       21.6        17.4
Growth of M2 (%)                        1.0       9.3        -6.0      -10.5       42.8        10.2
Real Exchange rate (US$/LCU)           113.0      109.0      107.0      99.4       66.8       63.2
Consumer price index (% growth rate)    1.7        1.9        1.4       -2.4       12.7       27.7
GDP Deflator (% growth rate)           0.2        6.1        0.2        -4.0       14.7       32.4



27
Table 6
Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable
Table 7
Proiect Studies
Not applicable



28
Table 8a
Proiect Costs
Not applicable
Table 8b
Proiect Financins
Appraisal estimate      Actual/Latest estimate
Item             |         (USS mil)                 (uss mni)
tIDA                                   75.0                       75.0
lOther                                  0.0                       0.0
TOTAL                 75.0                      75.0



29
Table 9
Economic Costs and Benefits
COSTS (S million)                            BENEFITS
75          Improvement in the economy's competitiveness and correction of
macroeconomic imbalances. Implementation of organizational and.
staffing plans in selected ministries. Initiation of a public enterprise
reform. Progress toward the liberalization of the petroleum sector.
Abolishment of price controls and reference producer prices.
Negative impact of the devaluation on the population limited through
nmeasures to protect real income and shift resources towards human
development.



30
Table 10
Status of Leeal Covenants in Credit Agreement
Section  Covenant Present           Fulfilment Date      Description of Covenant                                                Comments
Type      Status      Original      Actual
3.01       9          C        continuous               Borrower to submit project progress report periodically and
exchange views with the Bank on the basis of this report
3.02       3          C        continuous               Procurement guidelines
3.03 (a)     I          C       continuous                Maintain records and proper accounts of expenditures
under credit
3.03 (b,c)    1          C       continuous               Have records and accounts audited; furnish audit/other
information to IDA
5.01 (a)     12         C        Prior to                Issue forestry regulations satisfactory to the Association
effectiveness
5.01 (b)     12          C         Prior to               Issue a first list, satisfactory to the Association, of public
effectiveness             and parapublic sector enterprises to be liquidated or
privatized
Covenants tvpes:
I= Accounts/audits                                         10= Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9       Present Status:
2= Financial perfonnance/revenue generation from beneficiaries    11 = Sector or cross-sector budgetary or other resource allocation  C  = Covenant complied with
3= Flow and utilization of project funds                   12= Sector or cross-sector policy/regulatory/institutional action  CD= Complied with after delay
4= Counterpart funding                                     13= Other                                                       CP= Complied with partially
5= Management aspects of the project or executing agency                                                                  NC= Not complied with
6= Environmental covenants
7= Involuntary resettlement
8= Indigenous people
9= Monitoring, review and reporting



31
Table 11
Bank Resources - Staff InDuts
Stage of                    Planned                   Actual
Project Cycle         Weeks    USS (OOOS)    Weeks    USS (000.)
Preparation to
Appraisal                                       29.6         74.6
Appraisal                                       31.6         73.3
Negotiations through
Board Approval                                   11.1        25.9
Supervision             19.5        53.8        22.5         60
Completion              13          30.4         2.6          2
Total                                            97.4       235.8



32
Table 12
Use of Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of                       Month/   Number of  Days in               Specialized         Performane Rating                Types of
Project Cycle                      Year        Persons       Field          staff skills     Implementation  Development        Problems
represented           status       objectives
Through Appraisal                            Jan/Feb-94         9           17             EC, LEG               2             2
Appraisal through Board Approval               Apr-94          6            24             EC, FA              - 2             2
Board Approval through Effectiveness
Supervision                                    Oct-94           1           26               EC                  2             2
July/Aug-94       2           22                EC                  2             2
Completion
Key to specialized staff skills                                                     Key to Performance Ratin         Key to Problems
EC = Economist                            LEG = Legal                                I = Problem Free                AF = Availability of funds
IE = ifiastructure Engineer               CONS = Consultant                         2 = Moderate Problens            CLC = Compliance with legal covenants
FA = Financial Analyst                    STE = Senior Transport Engineer            3 = Major Problems              FP = Financial Perfonnance
CC = Computer Consultant                  MFA= Municipal Financial Analyst           4 = Major Problems -            PMP = Project management performance
UP = Urban Planner                        UFS = Urban Financial Specialist              Corrective Action to be taken  PP = Procurenent progress
TRE = Traffic Engineer                    YP = Young Professional                                                     SP = Studies progress
TEC = Transport Economist



33
APPENDIXES
ACTIONS TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT AS BOARD CONDITIONS AND
CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS
BOARD CONDITIONS
(a) In the (draft) Loi de Finances for 1994/95, submitted to the Parliament for approval,
reflect the public investment program, levels of non-wage recurrent expenditures for the
health, education and agriculture sectors and for road maintenance, and the levels of
resources allocated to the Social Action Program, as determined in agreement with the
Bank.
(b) Effectively implement the UDEAC indirect tax and tariff reforms including: (i)
effectively introduce a turnover tax (TCA) with two rates; and (ii) establish an inventory
of beneficiaries of tax and tariff exemptions under "conventions d'etablissement".
(c) Sign a new contract with a Pre-Shipment Inspection service, covering price, quality
and quantity verification for all imports exceeding CFA 2 million and for all exports of
timber.
(d) Eliminate all remaining import license requirements and finalize a revised document
describing Cameroon's trade regime.
(e) Adopt regulatory texts for the implementation of the organizational and staffing plans
for the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Plan, the Ministry of Commerce and Industry
and the Ministry of Civil Service and Administrative Reform.
(f) Define procedures and modalities for departure of surplus civil servants.
(g) Adopt the Public Enterprise Sector Reform Policy Declaration, established in
agreement with the Bank.
CONDITIONS FOR CREDIT EFFECTIVENESS
(a) Adopt implementation decrees satisfactory to IDA for the forestry law.
(b) Adopt and publish a first list satisfactory to IDA of at least 10 public enterprises to
privatize or liquidate.






IBRD 24867
MALI           N                                             -                                                      \         Lake Chad il
>  NIGER
kr              -SUDAN  |I
BURKINAb    y ~~                          CHAD                                   The boundaries. colors,
FASO  1,>                        2 !              J  \                         denominotions ond ony          -
BENIN'                                                                   other ,nfo-n,t,o  show-
-71   /    NIGERIA                                         o~~~~~~~~~~n this map  do  not
BENIN) NIGERIA 9 / \ imply  on the port of
.J        " j   4   / CENTRAL AFRICAN               any judgment on the legal                        ,
3HAN'M  5 +--           f             (         REPUBLIC                         status of any territory,                                0.
REPUBLI ~ ~~ ~Orany endoreetO.
GO {Df     __       -MEROON          -  o_ acceptance of such                                                                                  CHAD
DsIIat                                                  h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o.ndorres
EQUATORIAL      L              /
GLUINEA   ) -          N           ZAIRE
AtLSNT,caCyAN     4 GABON                                   n LOMeTES o  20 0  uS  s0   ISO   0 1'o 150 160 55               Rt
__         _      ^LeS    u        ,2 50   50   80   Ioc                r       RE)RT11!
CAMEROON                                                                               jKG'der                                                        3
o      SELECTED TOWNS
()      PROVINCE CAPITALS                                      ce'       GAROUA i                   '
j0)     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                               )
PAVED ROADS
UNPAVED ROADS                                          Ju bjIbo                          _
RAILROADS                                                              0 l         Ito, T.1-I,
Tcholl,r;
RIVERS                                           )F                           /,
_  -   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                           ;                              |  1',OH                       '
INTERNATIONAL                                                    -.
BOUNDARIES                                  /                        '                                              'outfM'el
/      fl gnrhe   -                                             ,\)_
.  NGAOUNDERE
i /       _  DAWtD V,i            .
N  /~!     WESWE       oNkombe Li             Bonyo 'Morb                                          eidougov  /
NIGEIGL5                      ,A rl ,,wTb-i
-5"                     yhergw\  BAMEhDA   K fnrbr           j                                -~   -     -- - -g-i
2'' /   ,  X  ,->'  WE5T l                                                  .                                     GouWST
f,             mba                                                       Ndokqy~~~~~~-  oso               CENTRAL
Dsch c/gunn            Fosm'a,  ,&                                                N       o                       AFRICAN
Ngut                      BIAFOUSSAM
|/s     gut                                                CENTRAL                                                                    REPUBLIC
/SOUTH-          ;                  Baoon ongte
/     WEST    epe  \    BoJorg
,/ rMundembo . ,/oE kongsraltbo  X B uio kbOnk9obo ,  ,                                                         5ST
EBOLOWAQ  Songns6INtngo -'b
ATLANTICKumbo                                            SOU THERTOUA 
s  )   f>fz  DYgbolsr   1    1   %_:  <  -                    ,,   -13                 . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Botour 
- ^.  Ideno E              COASTAL                                   GAoRO t                  ANl'
Un+OUA>' k Etdeo                                                               Mbn       
r ~~~~ ~~ :"' < /^, Akoisl ngo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Yokodoumo \
9-   ]< /             >               qL   y                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lom,b
(UII<'=A               R  ~~~~~~K,,bi  EBOLOWA>  /   Song melno- 
ATL4NrlC   1''                            ~~SOUTH                                                              
OCEAN  __  _  ,Mludp/
QUINt                                    j0kl8                        X GABOUQ F  CONGO \
FEBRUARY 1995









IMAGING
Report No:      15682
Type: ICR



