Report No. PIC583
Project Name              Cameroon-Economic Recovery Credit (ERC)
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Non-sectoral
Project ID                     CMPA35481
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Finance
Date PID Prepared              June 21, 1994
Project Board Date             June 16, 1994
Country Background and Adjustment Programs
1.   From 1960 to 1985, Cameroon experienced growth rates averaging
about 7 percent per annum driven by agriculture (1960-79) and later by
oil. However, since the mid-1980s the Cameroonian economy has been in
steep and uninterrupted decline. The decline was sparked by a sharp
decrease in prices of petroleum followed by those for cocoa and coffee,
and has resulted in a deterioration of the external terms of trade by 60
percent from 1986 to 1993. The sharp fall in the terms of trade was
further compounded by the onset of what has proved to be a continuous
decline in oil production. GNP per capita fell in real terms by 45
percent over the 1986-93 period. Budgetary revenues decreased by nearly
40 percent during the same period and by 1989, external debt had
increased by more than 40 percent of GDP. As a result, public
expenditures for social services fell drastically resulting in a serious
deterioration in the country's health and educational facilities.
2.   Against this background, Cameroon took its first steps towards
democracy. With the results of the October 1992 presidential elections
which were widely contested, serious confrontations broke out between
the government and the opposition parties. This aggravated Cameroon's
already severe economic and financial crisis as a segment of the
population withheld paying taxes, violence erupted and strikes become
more frequent. In January 1994, a 50 percent downward realignment of
the parity of the CFA franc coincided with a period of relative
political ca allowing the government to embark on a new macroeconomics
program with stringent austerity measures.
3.   The government's new economic program covers there key areas: (i)
redimensioning and strengthening efficiency of the public and
parapublic sectors; (ii) improving the incentives framework for
productive and production-supporting sectors; and (iii) adopting poverty
alleviation measures. Recent observations suggest that the
stabilization phase has succeeded. Prices have increased by only 13
percent since the devaluation and the labor unions have not called for
higher wages to compensate for rising prices despite the sharp reduction
in civil service wages which fell by more than 60 percent since January
1993.
Objectives of the Proposed Credit
4.   The Project supports the government's program of economic



rehabilitation. Emphasis has been put on the implementation of a number
of reform measures which will assist government in attaining the goals
set out under its economic recovery program. The measures fall into
three categories: improving public resource management, strengthening
production capacity, and poverty alleviation.
5.   To enable an adequate provisioning of public services and to reduce
the overall deficit of the central government, a key objective of the
recently adopted economic recovery program is to raise non-oil revenue
from 13 percent of non-oil GDP in 1993/94 to 17 percent in 1996/97.
Retrenchment of the civil service would reduce the wage bill from its
actual level of 7.5 percent of GDP to 5.5 percent of GDP. The
liquidation and privatization of the major transport and agricultural
public enterprises would significantly reduce the burden of these
enterprises on public finances. To strengthen productive capacity,
measures to be implemented include trade and price reform; strengthening
the incentives for the productive sectors; ensuring a more efficient and
transparent management of Cameroon's forest resources including the
adoption of a forestry code satisfactory to IDA; increasing petroleum
production and improving the efficiency and resource allocation of the
energy sector at large; restoring efficiency in the transport sector
through sector-wide reform, rational investment and maintenance
planning; developing an education sector development program and
implementing a primary health care policy; and developing a well-
targeted poverty alleviation program.
Previous Bank Assistance and ERC Financing
6.   The World Bank group's operations in Cameroon began in    1967.  As
of end April 1994, the Bank has financed 75 operations (47 loans and 28
credits) in Cameroon, with IBRD commitments of US$1.20 billion and IDA
commitments of US$0. billion, amounting to a total of US$1.45 billion
(less cancellations). Over FY92-94, IBRD only made one new commitment
to Cameroon in view of the country's weak economic performance. As of
May 1994, the Bank had a total portfolio of eight loans with undisbursed
commitments US$182.1 million. Given Cameroon's lack of creditworthiness
for IBRD lending and its eligibility for borrowing on IDA terms,
Cameroon was declared IDA-eligible in February 1994. The Economic
Recovery Credit (ERC) is for US$75 million to be disbursed in one
tranche upon Government compliance with a number of credit effectiveness
conditions.
Environmental Impact
7.   The project has no direct impact on the environment.    It will have
an indirect impact through the implementation of the application decrees
for the forestry code whose objective is to ensure a more efficient and
transparent management of Cameroon's forest reserves. A forest
management program financed by the Global Environmental Facility is
presently under preparation to ensure that increased activity in the
forestry sector does not result in environmental degradation.
Poverty Category
8.   The project has a Social Action Program component.    This component
contains activities which will help promote employment through
-2 -



counseling, vocational training and support for micro-enterprises; a
household survey to monitor social evolution with a view to preparing
poverty-related activities and an expanded education component. The
component will also provide assistance to the government in its
implementation of its overall emergency action program (EPA), which is
an integral part of its adjustment program.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note:     This is information based on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final
project.
-3-



