ivICUM EITS
CREDIT NUMBER 2627-1 CM
(First Amendment)
First Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic Recovery Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                        , 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2627-1 CM
(First Amendment)
FIRST AGREEMENT AMENDING
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                C o t        , 1994, between
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered
into a Development Credit Agreement (Economic Recovery Credit),
dated June 23, 1994 (the Development Credit Agreement), for the
purpose of assisting in the financing of the program referred to in
Recital (A) of the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement (the
Program);
(B)   the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
further additional assistance towards the financing of the Program
by increasing the amount made available under the Development Credit
Agreement, by an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
three million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 23,200,000); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Amendments to the Development
Credit Agreement
Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended by deleting the "and" at the end of Subsection (b)
thereof and adding it to the end of Subsection (c) after having
changed "." into ";"; furthermore, a new Subsection (d) is added to
read:
"(d)  'First Amending Agreement'    means   the  First
Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement (Economic
Recovery Credit) between the Borrower and the Association,
dated June 23, 1994".
Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement
is amended to read as follows:


﻿-2-
"Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifty-three million one hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 53,100,000) (the Credit)
and an additional amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty-three million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 23,200,000) (the First Additional Financing).
Section 1.03. The following is added at the end of Section
2.04 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement:
"; provided, however, that commitment charges on the
First Additional Financing shall accrue from a date sixty days
after the date of the First Amending Agreement."
Section 1.04. Schedule 1 to the Developmenr Credit Agreement
is amended as follows:
(a)   Paragraph 2 (d) is to read:
"(d)    expenditures for goods procured under
contracts costing less than $10,000 equivalent;" and
(b)   A new paragraph 4 is added to read:
"4. After a date twelve months from the date of the
First Amending Agreement, no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of
the First Additional Financing. At any time after such
date, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel the amount of the First Additional Financing
unwithdrawn from the Credit Account or any part
thereof."
ARTICLE II
Effective Date; Termination
Section 2.01. This First Amending Agreement shall not become
effective until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have
been furnished to the Association that the execution and delivery of
this First Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to Section 2.01 of this First Amending Agreement, there shall be
furnished to the Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to
the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on
behalf of the Borrower, that this First Amending Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in
accordance with its terms.
Section 2.03. This First Amending Agreement shall come into
force and effect on the date upon which the Association dispatches
to the Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by
Section 2.01 of this First Amending Agreement.
Section 2.04. If this First Amending Agreement shall not have
come into force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date
of this First Amending Agreement, this First Amending Agreement and
all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the
Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this
Section. If this First Amending Agreement shall terminate under the
provisions of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect, as if this First Amending
Agreement had not been executed.


﻿-4-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this First Amending
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the date and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON
B y
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/S S   UA10(o
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


