Page  1
CONFORMED COPY  
 
GRANT NUMBER: H169 - SL 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Fourth Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Grant) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 28, 2005 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER: H169 - SL 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Recipient a letter of 
development policy dated April 15, 2005 (the Letter of Development Policy), describing a 
program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote growth and achieve sustainable 
reductions in poverty (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the 
Recipient’s commitment to 
the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during the execution thereof;  
(B) 
the Recipient has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
(C) 
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Recipient by making the Grant as hereinafter 
provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the 
modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth.  
Page  3
2
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to ten million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section, the 
Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant from the Grant Account in 
support of the Program. 
(b) 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:  (i) all withdrawals from the 
Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into an account in Dollars designated by 
the Recipient and acceptable to the Association; and (ii) the Recipient shall ensure that upon 
each deposit of an amount of the Grant into said account, an equivalent amount is accounted for 
in the Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association.  
(c) 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Grant shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  If 
the Association determines at any time that an amount of the Grant was used to make a 
payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment to the Association.  
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be cancelled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on 
the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of 
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from 
time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year 
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, 
the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 
Page  4
3
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from 
time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on March 1 and 
September 1 in each year. 
Section 2.06. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after 
the disbursement of the Grant which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02.  (a)  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 (a) of the 
General Conditions, the Recipient shall promptly furnish to the Association such information 
relating to the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Association may, from time to 
time, reasonably request. 
(b) 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall:   
 
(i) 
have the account and the recording of amounts of the Grant into the 
 
Recipient’s budget management system referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
 
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in 
 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to 
 
the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
 
than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such 
 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
 
requested; and 
Page  5
4
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the said 
 
account and recording of Grant amounts into the budget management 
 
system, and the audit thereof, as the Association shall have reasonably 
 
requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Recipient responsible for finance is designated as the 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
 
Page  6
5
For the Recipient: 
 
The Financial Secretary 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Freetown 
 
Sierra Leone 
Cable 
address: 
   
MINFIN 
Freetown 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  7
6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE 
 
By 
 
    /s/ 
Ibrahim 
Kamara 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
    /s/ 
Mahmood 
Ayub 
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Grant shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have financed or 
agreed to finance under another credit, loan, or grant; 
2. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations 
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
Page  9
8
non-irradiated, for 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
4. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which the 
Recipient is a party);  
5. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, 
if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
6. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or of a beneficiary of the Grant during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Recipient having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association 
to remedy the situation. 
Page  10
9
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
The Recipient has: 
1. 
enacted public budgeting and accountability legislation acceptable to the Association, 
in accordance with paragraph 49 of the Letter of Development Policy;  
2. 
appointed at least six of the seven 
members of the Recipient’s Local Government 
Finance Committee pursuant to the Local Government Act, 2004, in accordance with paragraph 
50 of the Letter of Development Policy;  
3. 
established: (i) the Board of the National Public Procurement Authority and the 
Independent Procurement Review Panel pursuant to the Public Procurement Act, 2004; and 
(ii) procurement committees in the Recipient’s Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Education, 
Ministry of Health, Ministry of Mineral Resources, Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Works, 
Ministry of Defense and Sierra Leone Police, in accordance with paragraph 52 of the Letter of 
Development Policy; 
4. 
advertised positions for the Accountant General and for two deputies in the Accountant 
General’s Department, in accordance with paragraph 53 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
5. 
adopted a medium-term personnel expenditures plan for the Office of the Auditor 
General, in accordance with paragraph 54 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
6. 
implemented the Common External Tariff of the Economic Community of West 
African States through the adoption of a new tariff schedule, in accordance with paragraph 58 
of the Letter of Development Policy;  
7. 
adopted an implementation plan, acceptable to the Association, for the operation and 
expansion of the mining cadastre system for the period 2005-2007, in accordance with 
paragraph 61 of the Letter of Development Policy; and
 
8. 
adopted a five-year implementation plan, acceptable to the Association, for the 
conversion of pilot extension services to full scale extension services beginning in 2005, in 
accordance with paragraph 61 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
Page  11
10
SCHEDULE 3  
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General 
Conditions are modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 3.05, 6.05, and Article VII, are 
deleted in their entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, the term “credit” shall continue 
to read “credit”.  
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Paragraph 12 of Section 2.01 is modified to read: 
12. 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Grant Agreement, in support of which the Grant is 
made.” 
4. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be made in the currency 
specified in Section 2.02 (b) of the Development Grant Agreement; 
provided, however, that withdrawals in the currency of the 
Recipient shall be made in such currency or currencies as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably select.”; 
(b) 
Section 4.02 (a) and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
Page  12
11
“
Section 4.02 Currencies in which Commitment Charges are 
Payable
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in 
the currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in such 
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be 
designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
(c) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General Conditions the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “commitment charge”. 
(d) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“
Section 4.03. Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
5. 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Grant 
from the Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Grant Agreement and of these General Conditions.” 
6. 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted. 
7. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a) The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in 
 
Section 6.02 (a) (ii) is modified to read: “any other development 
grant, credit or financing agreement”. 
(b) The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (c) 
(i) is modified to read: “any development grant, credit or financing 
agreement”. 
8. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of 
Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
9. 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) 
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the 
Association, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
Page  13
12
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Development Grant Agreement, the performance by the 
Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under the 
Development Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Grant.” 
10. 
Section 9.04 is deleted in its entirety and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 
9.07 and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
 
