Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No
.:
30528
 
Project Name 
SL: ERRC IV 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration (50%); Sub-national government 
administration (20%); Mining (15%); General industry (15%)  
Project ID 
P083477 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Contact Person:  J.B. Dauda, Minister of Finance 
Tel: 232-22-228-616 
Fax: 232-22-224-274 
Email:  minfin@sierratel.sl  
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[
]
C
[
]
FI   [x ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[x ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
October 26, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 1, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
April 29, 2005 
The proposed Fourth Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit (ERRC IV) is a one-
tranche quick-disbursing development policy grant of US$15 million covering the period 
April 2005 through March 2006.  It is designed to help the Government make the 
transition from post-conflict recovery to sustainable development in the context of Sierra 
Leone’s emerging Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS).  This would be achieved by i) 
consolidating core capacity for public resource management, ii) building capacity for 
PRS implementation in sector ministries and local governments and iii) promoting 
private sector development. 
 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for IDA involvement 
 
Rapidly disbursing, policy based financing is needed for three reasons:  to finance 
essential imports, to finance critical budgetary spending, and to help Government make 
the transition from post-conflict recovery to sustainable development in the context of 
Sierra Leone’s emerging Poverty Reduction Strategy. 
 
Export receipts in 2002 and 2003, almost exclusively from diamond sales, covered an 
average of only 45 percent of imports.  External financing from foreign aid will remain 
critically important for years to come.  Approximately 63 percent of the domestically 
financed portion of the 2003 budget (goods and services and development spending) was 
allocated to poverty reducing activities and programs.  This spending is effective, with 
substantial increases in service provision across the country.    The budget is, however, 
heavily dependent upon external assistance.  In 2003, budget support in the form of 
Page  2
grants, gross credits and debt relief financed approximately 48 percent of total 
expenditures. 
 
While post-conflict needs are waning, the emerging PRS agenda facing the Government 
will be challenging.  The PRS will be carried out in a situation characterized by growing 
capacity for public resource management in core institutions, weak capacity in the 
sectoral ministries, decentralization, ongoing fiscal adjustment and an urgent need for job 
creation and income growth in the private sector.   
 
Substantial progress has been made, relative to the situation at war’s end, with capacity 
building in core institutions.  Additional work remains, however, when current capacity is 
measured against reasonable standards.  Public resource management capacity in the 
sectoral ministries and in the new local governments is weak and in need of attention.   
 
The process of decentralization is in its infancy, beginning with the May 2004 elections.  
The fiscal requirements of decentralization in Sierra Leone are not well known at this 
early stage, particularly because the process of assigning some public service 
responsibilities remains in progress. 
 
There is an urgent need for job creation and income growth in the private sector.  
Preliminary estimates suggest 70 percent of the population is in poverty.  Data from the 
pilot Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire, while also preliminary, indicate that 
unemployment and under-employment is extremely high, particularly for men and 
women between ages 15-29.  This deep poverty combined with high unemployment will 
need to be fought with sustained income growth and job creation.  The bulk of that 
activity will necessarily be led by the private sector. 
 
2. Proposed objectives 
 
In light of the above, the proposed Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit IV in 
support of the Government’s transition to PRS implementation would aim at:   i) 
consolidating core capacity building efforts for public resource management, ii) building 
capacity for PRS implementation in sector ministries and local governments and iii) 
continuing to promote private sector development.  By providing foreign exchange, the 
proposed grant would also finance essential imports and support critical budgetary 
spending, thus contributing to the maintenance of a sound macroeconomic framework. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The proposed grant will be a one-tranche quick-disbursing development policy grant of 
US$15 million covering the period April 2005 through March 2006.  The grant would be 
disbursed in full upon effectiveness, justified by satisfactory progress under the IMF 
PRGF and ERRC III as well as continued progress in the months after that credit has 
closed and before the grant is brought to the Board.  The design of the grant will be kept 
simple due to the expedited processing time.  The number of triggers will be kept small 
and focused mainly on facilitating the implementation of the PRS.  The three 
Page  3
development objectives outlined in Part 2 above will be supported in the following 
manner: 
 
Consolidating core capacity.
 The consolidation of capacity building efforts for public 
resource management in core institutions will require work in four key areas:  accounting, 
procurement reform, the external audit function and anti-corruption efforts.  Progress will 
be monitored under IDA’s Institutional Reform and Capacity Building project using 
standard indicators developed by the Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability 
Secretariat of the World Bank. 
 
Building capacity for PRS implementation and monitoring.
 
The ability to implement the 
PRS will require an expansion of capacity building beyond the core functions addressed 
by previous credits.  Central government sector ministries and the new local governments 
will be the key actors responsible for implementation.  As such, they will need to 
strengthen their ability to plan, budget, procure and monitor outcomes.  The proposed 
grant will support this development objective by seeking i) a stronger ability to prioritize 
PRS objectives and integrate the PRS into the budget, ii) capacity building in the sector 
ministries, iii) decentralized capacity building and iv) building capacity to monitor the 
PRS. 
 
Private sector development.
 
Job creation and income growth in the private sector are of 
critical importance.  The proposed grant will therefore focus on three goals for private 
sector development:  seek ways to promote new or expanded business operations, 
promote the divestiture program and continue support for the mining sector.  The grant 
will support work aimed at creating a better investment climate, particularly through 
changes in the legal and regulatory environment. An important foundation for job 
creation and poverty reduction is expanded access to electric power.  The proposed grant, 
together with IDA’s Power and Water project, will support a management contract for the 
National Power Authority and – to promote private participation in power generation -- 
the drafting of a new electricity law and the formation of an independent regulatory 
agency.  Development of  the mining sector is critical to the reduction of poverty in rural 
areas and will also help increase revenues and exports.  Government has also announced 
its intention to participate in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative.  The 
proposed grant will support needed capacity building as well as legal and regulatory 
changes. 
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
The predecessor of this operation, ERRC III, was rated a structural adjustment credit 
governed under the old Operational Directive 8.60, and therefore did not require an 
environmental assessment.  The policy reforms supported by the ERRC IV are subject to 
new OP/BP 8.60.  The proposed operation is not likely to have any significant effect on 
the country's environment, forests, and other natural resources.  The environmental 
implications of the development of the mining sector are subject to the provisions of the 
Mines and Minerals Act of 1996 and National Environment Protection Act, 2000. There 
are, however, concerns over the adequacy of regulation and on the institutional capacity 
Page  4
to effect the legislation.  A strategic environment assessment of the extractive industries 
including assessment of institutional capacity in the mining sector will be carried out in 
due course and the recommendations of the review will inform the broader country 
program.  ERRC IV will, in the meanwhile via general budgetary support, continue to 
reinforce the government’s own capacity for assessing environmental issues and 
implementing environmental assessment under national regulation.   
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source:        US$ 
millions 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
       
 
 
0 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
 
$15 
Total 
        $15 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact:  Douglas Addison 
Title:  Senior Economist 
Tel:  202-473-1188 
Fax:  202-473-8136 
Email:  
Daddison@worldbank.org
