                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 36289-SL

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                             (GRTD-H1690)

                                                  ON A

                                                 GRANT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 15 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE

                                                 FOR A

                FOURTH ECONOMIC REHABILITATION AND RECOVERY GRANT




                                               June 6, 2006




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective as of May 31, 2006)

                                      Currency Unit = Leone
                                             US$ 1.00 = Le 2,957

                                               FISCAL YEAR
                                         January 1 - December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

A C C                       Anti -Corruption Commission
A f D B                     African Development Bank
A G D                       Accountant-General's Department
B o S L                     Bank of Sierra Leone
C A S                       Country Assistance Strategy
C F A A                     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
C P A R                     Country Procurement Assessment Report
C W I Q                     Core W elfare Indicators Questionnaire
D A C O                     Development Aid Coordination Office
DfID                        Department for International Development (United Kingdom)
E C                         E u r o p e a n C o m m i s s i o n
E I T I                     Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
E R R C / G                 Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit/Grant
E C O W A S                 E c o n o m i c C o m m u n i t y o f W est African States
G D P                       Gross Domestic Product
H I P C                     Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
H R M O                     Human Resource Management Office
ID A                        International Development Association
IM F                        International Monetary Fund
L D P                       Letter of Development Policy
M A F F S                   M inistry of Agriculture, Forestry and F ood Security
M D B S                     M u lti-donor Budget Support
M E S T                     M inistry of Education, Science and Technology
M D A                       M inistries, Departments and Agencies
M M R                       M inistry of Mineral Resources
M O F                       M inistry of Finance
N A C S                     National Anti -Corruption Strategy
N C P                       National Commission for Privatization
N P A                       National Power Authority
P E F A                     Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
P E R                       Public Expenditure Review
P E T S                     Public Expenditure Tracking Survey
P R G F                     Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (IM F )
P R S                       Poverty Reduction Strategy
P R S P                     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
R O S C A & A               Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes for Accounting and Auditing
S D R                       Special Drawing Rights
S E S                       Senior executive Service
S L P                       Sierra Leone Police
S L P A                     Sierra Leone Port Authority
S L R A                     Sierra Leone Road Authority
U N A M S I L               United Nations Peacekeeping Mission in Sierra Leone
U N D P                     United Nations Development Program




                                  Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani
                              Country Director                    Mats Karlsson
                                 Sector Manager                   Robert R. Blake
               Task Team Leader/Task Manager:                     Douglas Addison

                                       SIERRA LEONE
                   SL-Fourth Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Grant


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Borrowers Evaluation Report                                             31
Annex 9. Borrowers Comments on ICR                                               36

Project ID: P083477                                                  Project Name: SL-Fourth Economic Rehabilitation and
                                                                     Recovery Grant
Team Leader: Douglas M. Addison                                      TL Unit: AFTP4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: SL-Fourth Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery L/C/TF Number: GRTD-H1690
                            Grant
   Country/Department: SIERRA LEONE                                                       Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (50%); Mining and other extractive (25%); Sub-national
                            government administration (13%); General industry and trade sector (12%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P); Decentralization (S);
                            Regional integration (S); Law reform (S); Regulation and competition policy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/04/2004                                     Effective: 08/03/2005                08/03/2005
     Appraisal: 02/22/2005                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/16/2005                                      Closing: 06/30/2006                 06/30/2006



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Gobind T. Nankani
Country Manager:                James Sackey                                   James Sackey
Sector Manager:                 Robert R. Blake                                Robert R. Blake
Team Leader at ICR:             Douglas Addison                                Douglas Addison
ICR Primary Author:             Sati Achath


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:



The over-arching objective of the Fourth Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Grant (ERRG IV) (SDR
10 million = US$15 million equivalent) was to help the Government of Sierra Leone (GOSL) make the
transition from post-conflict recovery to sustainable development in the context of Sierra Leone's Poverty
Reduction Strategy (PRS). This was expected to be achieved by promoting: (i) increased capacity for
good governance; (ii) economic growth led by the private sector; and (iii) human resource development.
The grant provided quick-disbursing budget support for the 2005 budget in one tranche and covered
policies to be implemented during the period June 2005 through June 2006. It complemented similar
support provided by the African Development Bank (AfDB), Department for International Development
(United Kingdom) (DFID), European Commission (EC) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).

The grant will contribute to economic recovery and growth by providing foreign exchange resources for
imports of essential commodities, by providing financial resources to the Government budget to finance
priority public expenditures and by supporting reforms to attract private investment. By helping to close
the financing gap in 2005, it will also contribute to maintaining macroeconomic stability and low inflation.

The grant objectives were clear, important to the country's economic and social development, and realistic
in scale and scope. The grant was also timely and appropriate to the needs of the Borrower. The grant
design was fairly straight forward, and the activities and their projected execution were clearly defined.

ERRG IV was the fourth in a series of Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit operations. The
policy areas supported by the ERRG IV were built on the results achieved under ERRC III. They were
aligned with medium-term objectives under each of the three Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSP)
pillars and informed by analytical work, notably the Country Financial Accountability Assessment
(CFAA), Public Expenditure Review (PER) and Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) AAP.

Although the project was designed just before the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (Report No.
31793-SL) was reviewed by the World Bank's Board of Directors in June 2005, it was fully consistent with
the CAS. In particular, because the CAS mandates that future development policy lending will follow a
programmatic design, the ERRG IV was designed to function as a bridge between the ERRC series and the
expected new programmatic series.          For this reason, the operation included triggers for the next
Development Policy Operation (DPO) even though this was not standard practice for a single-tranche
stand-alone operation.

The project took into account the following lessons drawn from Operations Policy and Country Services
(OPCS), Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) for ERRC I, II, and III and the Quality Assurance
Group (QAG) findings for ERRC III:

    l The QAG review of ERRC III included praise for its balanced approach to support for
         development policy. The grant therefore maintained the same balance with program support aimed
         at macro-stabilization, good governance, decentralization, selected aspects of capacity building and
         stimulation of the private sector.

    l Lending for development policy should not rely on conditionality alone to catalyze and implement
         reforms (OPCS). To be fully effective, the policy dialogue must be supported by other instruments



                                                      - 2 -

         that identify institutional weaknesses and help build country capacity step by step. The grant
         therefore sought to capitalize, as much as possible, on existing project support and technical
         assistance from World Bank and other donor projects.

   l The design of the Bank support for policy reforms should seek to integrate the efforts of other
         active donors. In this regard, the QAG noted that the ERRC III was "the glue" that bound the
         efforts of the Government, the Bank and donors together. The grant continued this approach
         through the use of ongoing donor operations, in addition to the Bank operations, to support agreed
         actions.

   l The requirements for the release of funds utilized by ERRC III created an incentive to complete
         reforms but macroeconomic stability was reduced when weak capacity slowed the achievement of
         required actions. In essence, the design of the credit did not fully anticipate the delays that were
         likely in post-conflict states. This problem was addressed in ERRG IV through the use of a single
         tranche operation to be brought to the Board on the basis of prior actions. Similarly, the next
         Development Policy Operation would be justified on the basis of progress towards indicative
         "triggers" supported under the grant.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

ERRG IV consisted of the following three components:

Good Governance

Government Budgeting and Accountability Act. Several damaging amendments were made in 1996 to
the Public Budgeting and Accounting Act of 1992. These amendments had the effect of reducing the
oversight roles of both the Office of the Auditor-General and the Parliament. The amendments also
distorted the relationship between the Accountant-General's Department (AGD) and the Ministry of
Finance (MOF). The 2002 limited scope CFAA recommended that the correction of these amendments
become a priority for Government. Work began under ERRC III. As prior action for ERRG IV,
Government undertook the completion of a Budgeting and Accountability law that would correct the 1996
amendments as well as other deficiencies.         This law is the keystone of reform in public resource
management.       It clarified roles and responsibilities, set out rules for the use of public funds, set
requirements for accounting and auditing and the management of Government stores. The law was enacted
by Parliament in February 2005. The adoption of an implementation plan for the revision of regulations
related to the Government Budgeting and Accountability Act was a trigger for the next Development Policy
Operation.

Supporting decentralization. The Government believes that a contributing factor to the ten-year civil war
was the antagonism between a large section of the rural population, who were marginalized from the
political process and deprived of social services and economic development opportunities, and those who
had access and control in Freetown. Household survey data for 2003/04 showed that the problem persisted
with large inequalities between urban Freetown and the rest of the country.

In this light, it was the Government's intention to restore local governance and decentralize the provision of



                                                     - 3 -

services. The Government took the first steps in 2004 with the passage of the Local Government Act that
created new local councils and mandated regular elections at the local level. The first local elections in
more than 30 years were successfully completed in May 2004. The next step was to establish local council
budgets for 2005 and begin the delivery of decentralized services. In March 2005, the Government
appointed six of seven required committee members to the Local Government Finance Committee. To
promote transparency and accountability in the transfer of resources, the adoption and promulgation of the
local government transfer formulas by the committee was a trigger for subsequent Development Policy
Operation.

Procurement reform. New procurement legislation was signed into law in December 2004 under ERRC
III. As a result, the MOF became responsible for oversight of procurement policy. In addition, under the
new law, all ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) were to form procurement committees and
provide acceptable procurement plans before expenditures can be approved. This new practice should help
reduce waste and fraud and it would also help inform the budget process. To begin implementation of the
law, and as a prior action, in February 2005, the Government established the boards for the National
Public Procurement Authority (NPPA) and the Independent Procurement Review Panel along with
procurement committees in key MDAs.

A trigger under ERRG IV required the Independent Procurement Review Panel and the NPPA and its
Secretariat to be adequately staffed and made operational in early 2005. Similarly, while procurement
committees have been set up in key ministries, they will need to begin the work of producing procurement
plans for the 2006 budget year, to be agreed with the MOF. These actions would be achieved with
assistance provided by the World Bank IRCB project, EC technical assistance and the UNDP.

Strengthening the Accountant-General's Department. Much of the fiduciary strength of the Government
depends upon the continued maintenance of adequate quality and timeliness in the operations in the AGD.
The AGD had, however, suffered some losses in its senior and technical ranks. Key personnel departed for
better paying jobs financed by the donor community while the Accountant-General was removed in March
2004 for alleged corrupt practices in a previous post. An acting Accountant-General was put in place but a
qualified applicant had not been selected for the post by December 2004. As a consequence, there were no
qualified accountants in the AGD through most of 2004. Resolving this situation was fundamental to the
fiduciary strength of the Government. To resolve this situation, and as a prior action, the Government
advertised for the post of Accountant-General and two deputies in December 2004. Filling these posts was
a trigger for continued support.

Strengthening internal and external audit. The new Government Budgeting and Accountability Act
allows the Minister of Finance to require internal audit units be set up in each ministry. Progress towards
this objective was an agreed milestone. The Minister of Finance had agreed with the Auditor-General on a
medium-term expenditure plan for the Office of the Auditor-General for recruiting staff in 2005 for an
effective external audit function. Implementation of the plan was part of the agreed Program under ERRG
IV.

Public Service Reform. There is a general lack of information, and therefore transparency, about the size
and composition of the public service relative to the needs of the Government in the context of the PRS and
the decentralization process. Many countries routinely publish this kind of information as part of their
annual budget speeches and include annual forecasts of future needs. This is not done at present in Sierra
Leone. This makes it difficult to take strategic decisions at the Cabinet level on the trade-offs between
personnel and other expenditures. To correct this situation, and as a milestone for the next operation, the
Government agreed that the 2006 Budget Speech would provide details of personnel employment and


                                                     - 4 -

expenditures for all MDAs and local councils for 2006 with notional estimates for 2007-08. An additional
table for 2006 will summarize total employment and salary ranges by grade. This data will also form a
useful baseline for analysis backing future reforms. The Government also aims to better integrating
manpower policies into the national budget process. (The need to do so was flagged in the 2002 CFAA and
reconfirmed by the 2004 PER.) In this context, three planned reforms included legislation strengthening the
mandate of the Establishment Secretary's Office (to be renamed the Human Resource Management Office)
with DFID assistance, the provision of guidance on human resource policy to Ministries in the annual
budget call circular and the establishment of annual formal manpower hearings as an integral part of the
national budget process. Progress towards these goals were Program milestones.

Pro-Poor Growth and Job Creation

One of the medium-term priorities of the Government is the improvement of the investment climate. It was
recognized within the Government that this was a multi-faceted task involving the quality of infrastructure,
the availability of an educated workforce and the quality and predictability of the legal and regulatory
framework. ERRG IV pursued these objectives in four key areas: the investment climate, trade, public
enterprise reform and mining.

Investment climate. Under ERRC III, the Government enacted an investment code in August 2004 based
on international best practices. The new law ensures that all enterprises ­ domestic, foreign, new or old
would benefit from and be subjected to the same laws and regulations. The investment climate would be
further improved under the Program through additional legal and regulatory changes.           In particular,
because of their importance to private sector development, bringing an acceptable Companies Act and
Bankruptcy Act to Parliament was chosen as a trigger while progress towards a competition policy would
be a milestone.

The trade regime. The trade and tariff regime is an important part of the investment climate. Overly high
or inappropriate tariffs can inhibit or distort investment decisions. A high import tariff would reduce
exports through real exchange rate over-valuation in addition to reducing the importation of essential raw
materials, spare parts and machinery. In Sierra Leone's case, the unweighted average tariff rate of 17.5
percent could be brought down to 13.3 percent through the adoption of the Economic Community of West
African States (ECOWAS) Common External Tariff (CET). The cost of imports would be reduced and
exports to ECOWAS members stimulated through implementation of the CET. Under ERRC III, the
Government finalized a study on the economic and fiscal impact of adopting the CET and prepared a
phased action plan. As a prior action under ERRG IV, the Government started the first phase with the
adoption and implementation of the new tariff schedule in January 2005. Further analytical work on trade
and international competitiveness would be scheduled under the Integrated Framework for Trade. This was
expected to lead to a program of support for enhanced competitiveness and trade.

Public enterprise reform. The poor management of several key public enterprises has been a significant
drag on the economy. Among these enterprises are the utilities controlling the supply of power, water and
non-cellular telecommunications. Other choke points include the public entities controlling most road
maintenance and the port operations. In recognition of the problem, the Government set up a National
Commission for Privatization (NCP) in 2002 which is mandated to divest Government ownership and
control over these and other public enterprises.      The Commission completed its divestiture plan in
September 2003 and issued a revised plan in December 2004. Clear and transparent procedures for the
sale, transfer or disposal of equity have not been published by the NCP. This lack of transparency could
inhibit serious investors while encouraging those who might seek to take advantage. To avoid this problem,
it was agreed that operating procedures that promote transparency and accountability would be published


                                                    - 5 -

in the Sierra Leone Gazette. Some of the transactions and reforms scheduled for 2005 were to include the
National Power Authority, the Sierra Leone Road Authority and the Sierra Leone Port Authority. The
completion of a new law creating an independent regulatory agency for the power sector was designated as
a trigger due to its perceived strategic importance to the future supply of power.

Metals and minerals development. The investment climate for mining had been hindered for many years
by the lack of effective administration and enforcement of mineral rights. The lack of clear mineral rights
also contributed to a lack of security in the alluvial diamond mining areas and reduced the ability of the
Government to monitor mineral revenues due. To correct this situation, the Government installed a mining
cadastral system under ERRC III in December 2004. The Government took the next step by adopting a
plan for the phased implementation of the cadastre, starting in Kono district in 2005 and then expanding to
the rest of the nation on the basis of lessons learned from the Kono phase, over a two year period. This
prior action was completed in March 2005. Implementation of the plan was a trigger for the next DPO.


Artisanal diamond miners often work under difficult conditions that compromise safety, health and
environmental standards. To help improve their prospects, the Government set up new unit for the
provision of pilot extension services in December 2004 under ERRC III. The Government adopted an
acceptable 5 year plan for the conversion of pilot extension services to full scale services beginning in
2005. This prior action was completed in March 2005. Implementation of the plan was a trigger for the
next DPO.

Preparatory fiscal and legal work for attracting serious investors, generating revenues, and reducing the
scope for discretion in mineral agreements was a trigger for the next operation.

Human Resource Development

Education: The capacity to administer and monitor the delivery of public education services is improved
was to be promoted through the adoption of an acceptable sector-wide development plan following
Education for All (EFA) and Fast Track Initiative (FTI) standards and the completion of a census of
schools.

Health: More transparency and accountability was to be brought to the distribution of essential drugs by
improving the ability of communities to compare planned and actual receipt of essential drugs. Activities
included publishing revised procedures for the procurement and distribution of essential drugs and
publicizing distribution targets for each district in local newspapers and/or on district notice boards .


3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

There was no official assessment of the quality at entry by the QAG. The ICR deems the quality at entry
to be satisfactory and the project was generally well conceived.

This grant was prepared in a manner consistent with the IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
(PRGF), following the agreed institutional division of labor, with the IMF taking the lead on



                                                     - 6 -

macro-economic sector issues while the Bank takes the lead on structural and social issues. As mentioned
in the earlier section, the project objectives were consistent with the CAS and the PRSP which came into
effect in February 2005, and met the critical needs of the macroeconomic, mining, and other sectors.
During preparation of the project, lessons learned from ERRC I, II, and III, and QAG findings for ERRC
III were considered and incorporated into the project design.

The major risk factors taken into account while preparing the project, in order of importance, were as
follows:

    l Capacity.      Weak capacity could put at risk the delivery of essential public services and/or the
        completion of various triggers and milestones. This risk was to be mitigated in two ways. First,
        an attempt was made to calibrate the choice and design of prior actions and triggers to existing
        capacity constraints. Second, the achievement of most agreed actions would be supported by
        ongoing projects or technical assistance.

    l Failure to release funds. Under the previor three ERRC operations, there was always a risk that
        a tranche might not be released if all conditionalities were not met before a credit was to be closed.
        This risk was to be reduced under ERRG IV by the adoption of the single tranche model where the
        operation is brought to the Board on the basis of completed prior actions and funds are released
        immediately upon effectiveness.

    l Other shocks. Stability could prove difficult to maintain either due to failure to maintain fiscal
        discipline (perhaps due to wage pressures) or an external shock such as a resumption of the
        upward trend in crude oil prices. This could have impeded the implementation of the poverty
        reduction strategy. This risk was mitigated by the Government's commitment to a sound medium
        term economic framework, supported under the Fund's PRGF, which set spending at a sustainable
        level that allows for some slippages in expected external aid.

    l Conflict. Delays in disarmament and demobilization in neighboring Liberia could have lead to a
        spillover of conflict into Sierra Leone. Conflict in neighboring Cote d'Ivoire could have affect
        trade or spilled over into Sierra Leone. Tensions between Guinea and Sierra Leone over a section
        of disputed border might have sparked a confrontation. The extension of the mandate of the United
        Nations Peacekeeping Mission in Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL) through end-2005, albeit with a
        reduced presence, and the deployment of a better equipped, trained and disciplined army and police
        force was expected to mitigate these risks.

Analytical Underpinnings. The conclusions and recommendations presented in a number of analytical
documents provided the foundation for the design of the grant. Preparation of the grant benefited from the
Public Expenditure Review (PER) and Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) AAP and a number of
technical notes on the results of the 2003/04 household survey. Additional information on the incidence of
poverty and public service delivery was available from the Participatory Poverty Assessment conducted for
the PRSP, pilot census results and pilot Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire (CWIQ) results. Further
analytical support for the metals and mineral sector was found in the draft Mineral Sector Review. This
document was extensively discussed within Government and the mining community in a series of two
stakeholder workshops.

The policy support for growth and job creation was informed by the Bank's annual "Doing Business"
publication as well as a preliminary investment climate report issued by FIAS for the Government in 2004.
These reports helped motivate the support for changes in business law and improvements in the



                                                     - 7 -

management of electricity provision, the ports and road maintenance. A Government study on the impact
of the ECOWAS CET, mandated under ERRC III, helped inform the support for implementation of the
CET in 2005.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Overall, the outcome of the project objectives was satisfactory. The major outcomes and achievements
of the project are as follows:

The grant assisted the Government of Sierra Leone (GOSL) in implementing the first year of its new
Poverty Reduction Strategy.       It provided critical resources to finance activities associated with the
consolidation of progress made in governance and the stimulation of economic growth by establishing an
enabling environment for private sector-led investment. Progress made in governance included improved
management of public resources, the initial devolution of some government services financed by
Government transfers and preparatory work required for eventual public service reform.             Continued
progress on Governance issues was spurred on by the drafting of a MOU for Multi-donor Budget Support
(MDBS) and the accompanying Progress Assessment Framework (PAF) that is strongly oriented around
public financial management (PFM).

Economic growth has been stimulated by maintaining macroeconomic stability, implementation of the
ECOWAS Common External Tariff, pursuing the divestiture strategy and implementing reforms in the
mining sector. The credit has also allowed the import of essential commodities, including food products,
petroleum products, and the raw materials and intermediate goods required for economic reconstruction and
rehabilitation of social and economic infrastructure country-wide.

Note: Annex 1 provides a summary of the Performance Indicators for key activities and outputs. An
assessment of program impact or outcomes is not included due to the short timeframe of the credit and the
lack of baseline data in the ERRG IV Program Document.

Macroeconomic Performance:

Under Section 3.1 above, it was noted that the grant should contribute to economic recovery and growth by
providing foreign exchange resources for imports of essential commodities, by providing financial
resources to the Government budget to finance priority public expenditures and by supporting reforms to
attract private investment. By helping to close the financing gap in 2005, it should also contribute to
maintaining macroeconomic stability and low inflation. These objectives were generally achieved. A
summary of macroeconomic performance follows.

Sierra Leone's strong recovery continued into 2004 and 2005 when real GDP grew by an estimated 7.4
percent and 7.3 percent respectively, despite increasing oil prices, marking six years of sustained economic
recovery.    This post-conflict recovery has been propelled by the growth of donor-financed imports,
large-scale resettlement and reconstruction activities, increases in land under cultivation and growing
remittances and investments by the Sierra Leone expatriate community and other investors. Cash crop
production increased sharply with resettlement, particularly for coffee, cocoa, groundnuts and palm
kernels. The officially registered export of diamonds in 2005 fell slightly by 3 percent to 668,655 carats
relative to the 2004 total of 691,757 carats. A major kimberlitic diamond mine began producing in the first
quarter of 2004. The average price per carat exported rose by almost 16 percent between 2004 and 2005.


                                                     - 8 -

Continued progress has been made in readying the rutile and bauxite mines for renewed production in 2006.
Offshore oil exploration is expected to get underway soon.

Dollar denominated export growth has shown rapid post-war recovery growing at a rate of 17 percent in
2004 and 23 percent in 2005, mainly on the strength of alluvial diamonds. The external current account
deficit (including official transfers) stood at 4.9 percent of GDP in 2004 and is estimated to have increased
to 7.3 percent of GDP in 2005 due in part to a substantial increase in the value of petroleum imports. The
current account deficit would have fallen as a share of GDP had the value of petroleum imports remained
constant. The current account deficit was financed mainly by concessional external assistance.

The fiscal deficit in 2004 was 3.5 percent of GDP, down from 6.7 percent in the previous year. By 2005,
the deficit had been reduced further to 2.7 percent of GDP. This outcome, while welcome, was less
positive than the expected target deficit of 1.3 percent of GDP. Revenues were slightly below target while
expenditures exceeded targets. Spending on poverty reducing programs surpassed targets, especially for
health and education, following concerted efforts to increase outlays in these areas. Implementation of
project spending improved as well.          Increased personnel allowances following a labor strike also
contributed to spending beyond the established targets.

Price inflation slowed between 2004 and 2005, falling from 14.2 percent in 2004 to 12.1 percent in 2005.
There has also been a sharp decrease in domestic interest rates. The nominal, end-of-period rate on
treasury bills was 28 percent in 2004 and 16 percent in 2005. These improvements were achieved through
conducive monetary and fiscal policy despite a 44 percent increase in petroleum prices over the same
period. The exchange rate depreciated to an average of 2,703 Le/US$ in 2004 and 2,950 Le/US$ in 2005.

The GOSL successfully completed all six reviews under the first Three Year Arrangement under the IMF
PRGF and negotiated a second Three Year Arrangement under the PRGF in May 2006.

Good Governance

(i) Governance Framework: An acceptable Government Budgeting and Accountability Act was enacted in
February 2005. The government has adopted an implementation plan for revising the regulations, in
conformity with this Act. Drafting has already commenced.

(ii) Decentralization: To facilitate the decentralization process, the Government appointed committee
members of the Local Government Finance Committee. In accordance with the Local Government Act, in
2005, the local government transfer formulae to local councils were finalized, adopted, and published in the
Sierra Leone Gazette. Disbursement to local councils for the second half of 2005, although incomplete and
late, was done after the Devolution Workshop finalized the implementation steps relating to the devolution
of responsibilities, staff, assets, and funds of DEC schools, primary health and agriculture.

(iii) Budget Process: The budget cycle was to start earlier and with more frequent involvement by the
Cabinet at the policy making stage. Cabinet decisions on strategic issues such as the trade-offs between
spending on personnel, goods and development were also to be issued in advance of the budget call circular.
There was no progress on this activity. Instead, many workshops and training sessions were organized by
the MOF for all MDAs in the use of the Budget Management Software (BMS) and the knowledge gained
was utilized by MDAs in the preparation of their Strategic Budget Plans for the 2006 financial year.

(iv) Procurement Reform: The prior action was met as members of the Independent Procurement Review
Panel and the Board of the National Public Procurement Authority were approved by the Parliament in


                                                       - 9 -

April 2005.    Progress towards triggers was mixed.        The implementing regulations were gazetted in
February 2006. Procurement Plans for the key MDAs were completed in the spring of 2006 and have been
approved by the MOF. NPPA has failed, however, to hire core staff at the time of this writing despite a
generous allocation budgetary allocation from the MOF for this purpose. This work is ongoing and is
expected to be completed by August 2006.

(v) Accountant-General's Department: The Government has appointed a qualified Accountant-General
and out of the two deputies needed, one has been recruited. In addition, the Government continued to
strengthen and deepen the Public Financial Management (PFM) system to facilitate the successful
implementation of the pro-poor policies articulated in the PRSP.           The new Integrated Financial
Management Information System (IFMIS) and the Chart of Accounts introduced in 2005 in the AGD were
fully implemented.

The new Government Budgeting and Accountability Act allows the Minister of Finance to require internal
audit units be set up in each ministry and it is agreed this will be done. To date, units with at least two
audit staff with basic accounting qualifications have been set up in the ministries responsible for finance,
agriculture, defense, education, health and the Sierra Leone Police.

All government units and accounts that should be included in the new reporting system for monetary and
fiscal data have been identified, and benchmark annual data for 2004 has been established. The Fiscal and
Monetary Reconciliation Committee identified 47 subvented agencies and 22 PIUs for the benchmark fiscal
year 2004. The benchmark annual data for 2004 has also been established for the units including the
treasury accounts.

(vi) Internal and External Audit:       The Government has adopted a medium-term expenditure plan,
acceptable to the Association, and approved by both the Minister of Finance and the Auditor-General, for
staffing the Office of the Auditor-General. However, so far, no recruitment has taken place. Further, the
Auditor-General Department has not yet been staffed with a complement of at least eight qualified auditors,
as originally planned.

Since 2002, Public Expenditure Tracking Surveys (PETS) have been conducted and findings published as
part of government's continuing effort to ensure transparency and accountability in the efficient
management of the flow of public resources from the Government to intended beneficiaries. The fifth PETS
for FY 2004 was conducted in September 2005 and covered the distribution of seed rice in the Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry, and Food Security, distribution of essential drugs in the Ministry of Health &
Sanitation, and the distribution of learning materials in the Ministry of Education, Science, and
Technology. The results of this survey were compiled, collated, and analyzed and published.

(viii) Public Service Reform: Progress was generally good, with one set-back. Several management and
functional reviews were completed under Phase I of the Governance Reform Project funded by DFID. The
Action Plan for the Ministry of Local Government was approved by the Cabinet and implementation of the
plans has commenced.

The Steering Committee on good governance endorsed the plan for transforming the Establishment
Secretary's Office into a Human Resources Management Office. Accordingly, the President approved the
plan in December 2005, which was endorsed by the Cabinet.

The 2006 Budget Speech did not include details of personnel employment and expenditures for all MDAs
and local councils for 2006 with notional estimates for 2007-08, as the other aspects of the budget process


                                                     - 10 -

took more time than anticipated.

Pro-Poor Growth and Job Creation

(i) Investment Climate: The revenue proposal to adjust nationals tariffs to the CET of the ECOWAS
started in January 2005 and is designed to be completed in three phases. The first phase witnessed the
reductions in the rates of 17 commodity types while 75 commodity types increased. The second phase of
the CET implementation commenced in 2006. The Government has not yet decided whether there is
sufficient need to draft a new law governing competition policy. The implementation of Phase I and II of
the Administrative Barriers study is currently underway. The IMF/World Bank FSAP team completed the
main mission in May 2006 to assess strengths and weaknesses in the financial system and propose reforms
to encourage savings and investment.

(ii) Public Enterprise Reform:        National Commission for Privatization (NCP) adopted clear and
transparent procedures for the privatization process, thus completing one of the triggers for the next DPO.
The (NCP) embarked on a number of projects to actualize the privatization of certain state enterprises.
NCP commenced the divestiture of the non-core activities of the SLPA and made arrangements for private
sector operations. For this purpose, Government recruited a General Manager from Ghana Ports and
Harbor to assist in the reform process including the setting up of a Project Management Committee. In
October 2005, the Government signed for funds from the Bank to operationalize various activities at the
ports. The Government has also developed a Road Maintenance Institutional Action Plan but it has not
been finalized. In addition, the Government is also preparing to solicit bids for a contract for the
management of the National Power Authority (NPA). The Forest Industries Corporation was privatized in
late 2005.

(iii) Minerals and Metals: The MMR and MOF met a prior condition by adopting an acceptable
implementation plan for the operation and expansion of the cadastre for the period 2005-07.             The
Government is currently implementing the action plans for the cadastre and extension services although the
pace is lower than anticipated.       There have been problems related to procurement planning and
implementation and a delay in activating key modules of the system. MMR is preparing to begin pilot
operations of the cadastre system in the Kono District June 2006.

The MMR has adopted a 5 year implementation plan for the conversion of pilot extension services to full
scale services beginning in 2005. MMR will be gradually providing a full range of extension services
across the nation. There has been some progress in implementing the plan but more will need to be done to
ensure the staff are adequately trained and equipped.

To bring the MMR up to internationally competitive standards for the quality of services and regulation
provided to investors and the mining community, in February 2006 the MMR and the MOF agreed to most
of the reforms proposed under a DFID-sponsored management and functional review.

Sierra Leone continues its commitment to the Kimberly process which aims to eliminate the marketing of
conflict diamonds. In June 2004, the Minister of Mines of Sierra Leone addressed a letter to the World
Bank expressing interest in implementing the EITI, and requesting technical assistance to delineate a
comprehensive and integrated program of mineral sector development. While preliminary discussions have
taken place on this subject, EITI team members have reported that the merits of EITI do not appear to be
well understood within Government.




                                                   - 11 -

Human Resource Development

(i) Education: The education sector plan is yet to be developed. Given the limited and dispersed data on
education, it was agreed under the Rehabilitation of Basic Education Project (REBEP) to first prepare a
Country Status Report (CSR) which will form the basis for an EFA/FTI Proposal and a sector plan. The
CSR will be completed by the end of this fiscal year. A draft will be discussed with the education sector
during a mission scheduled for the first week of June, 2006. The census on schools has not been completed
due in part to the high cost (over $100,000) which was not included in the Ministry budget.       The team
subsequently proposed that a comprehensive school census should be undertaken jointly with establishment
of an Education Management Information System. An MOU with UNESCO Institute of Statistics (UIS)
has now been signed and the consultant has started work. The earliest date for the completion of the first
school census is the end of 2006.

(ii) Health: New procedures for the procurement and distribution of essential drugs were adopted in
February 2006 for each district and published, and distribution targets for each district were publicized in
local newspapers and/or were posted on the notice boards of the local governments.

4.2 Outputs by components:

See Section 4.1

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Substantial. It is difficult to assign attribution in most budget support operations such as ERRG IV. There
are many other factors to consider including government policies outside of ERRG IV, the activities of
other donors and the pressure coming from various interest groups. It is also the case that ERRG IV both
reinforced and benefited from other Bank investment projects and analytical work such as the Education
Country Status Report. The Institutional Reform and Capacity Building Project (IRCBP) is the most
important of these because it overlaps strongly with ERRG IV objectives for decentralization and public
financial management -- including procurement reform.          Having said this, the project resulted in a
substantial institutional development impact with regard to most aspects of the program.

Some of the key elements that contributed to a strong impact include the regulations backing the
Government Budgeting and Accountability Act, devolution of some government services, the establishment
of procurement planning, the utilization of the IFMIS system, the growing number of internal audit units
and preparatory work for the establishment of the Human Resource Management Office.                     The
developmental impact for the private sector is less immediate, with many reforms in progress. The ongoing
effort to modernize the Companies Act and introduce a new Bankruptcy Act will lead to a stronger
financial system. The new procedures for privatization will lead to more transparency and accountability.
Ongoing efforts in port restructuring will facilitate international trade. The adoption of reforms in the
Management and Functional Review for the Ministry of Mineral Resources will lead to better services for



                                                      - 12 -

the mining community. The impact on the capacity to deliver educational services will come later as a
sector strategy based on the recently completed Country Status Report is adopted and implemented. The
impact in the ability to monitor drug distribution should be substantial as essential drugs are distributed
more transparently.

Program elements that need strengthening include budget planning (especially for personnel), procurement
reform, external audit, power sector reforms, the mining cadastre and mining extension services.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Positive Factors

Donor coordination and collaboration in implementation contributed strongly to the operation.            For
example, AfDB, DFID, EC and the Bank drafted a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for
Multi-donor Budget Support; and DFID and EC made available expert staff to the MOF. Donor
coordination was particularly strong on issues of governance and public financial management, which
forms the core of the Multi-donor Budget Support Progress Assessment Framework.

The IMF extended its support in the form of a second Three Year Arrangement under the PRGF, approved
by the IMF Executive Board on May 10, 2006.

Negative Factors

(i) Low capacity of almost all ministries and the shortage of staff in these ministries were major
constraints for implementing the large agenda under the grant. This is something that the Government can
control, but only over a period of time. It was essentially beyond government control for the period between
grant effectiveness and closing. As a result, a high degree of monitoring by the Bank team was required.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Lack of an adequately empowered leader and coordinator for the implementation of the program. The
Government had set up a Steering Committee to monitor the reform program. Yet there was no single
individual who was responsible for actively leading and coordinating the program implementation across all
the stakeholder ministries and agencies. The specific reason for this lack of leadership is unclear, falling
somewhere between the overwhelming nature of the workload facing far too few talented senior officials
and a lack of genuine commitment.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

See Section 5.2

5.4 Costs and financing:

As planned, the full credit of US$15 million was disbursed in a single tranche.




                                                     - 13 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Likely.   The Government accepts the importance of maintaining the various elements of the reform
program supported by ERRG IV all of which are consistent with the Government's Poverty Reduction
Strategy. In addition, the Bank's follow-on Development Policy Operation will help the Government
continue to move forward with the program agenda. The sustainability will also be strengthened by the
active collaboration of the Bank with its MDBS partners, the IMF, UNDP and other donors.

Good Governance

The key governance reforms required by the Government Budgeting and Accountability Act and the Public
Procurement Act are likely to be implemented and sustained, though not without some difficulties. Most of
the changes are not technically difficult, being focused more on transparency and accountability, yet
capacity is low. The Government does appear committed to the reforms, with improved Governance being
the first pillar in the new PRSP, and all major donors are strongly committed to providing all necessary
technical assistance and funding for such reforms.

Decentralization. Sustainability is highly likely. The strong voter participation in the local government
elections is an explicit endorsement of the restoration of local governance that any leader would be
reluctant to challenge.

Procurement reform. Despite the progress made in introducing procurement planning, sustainability will
be weak unless the Government moves quickly to adequately staff the NPPA with qualified personnel.

Accountant-General's Department. Sustainability is highly likely. The AGD plays an indispensible
central role in the day-today functioning of the Government. The AGD also receives strong support from
the donor community.

Implementing the PETS. Sustainability is problematic because, the unit within MOF responsible for the
work is partially funded by donors. When funding from one donor ends, staff are lost until a new donor is
secured. To solve this problem, the credit design could have asked that MOF bring all required staff onto
its payroll ­ though this would have also resulted in some personnel leaving their jobs due to low salary
levels.

Public service reform. Sustainability is moderate at present. The activities supported so far are only the
first steps required for a medium-term reform program of 5-10 years. Many key policy issues remain
undiscussed and unresolved. The agenda will be carried forward in the next DPO but no aggressive
reforms are likely for some time to come.

Pr-Poor Growth and Job Creation

Maintaining a satisfactory macroeconomic framework. Strong government commitment to growth and low
inflation and an adequate, if not spotless, track record suggests this objective is likely to be sustained.
There are some risks: donor aid must be sustained and predictable and upcoming elections must not distract
from good policy.

Sierra Leone was the first ECOWAS country to implement the Common External Tariff in January 2005.
This reform is likely to be sustained because it reduces costs for many importers and increases the market



                                                   - 14 -

available to many exporters. Moreover, the technical requirements of the reform are simple. There are some
risks: an increase in the import tariff on some inputs and intermediates may cause some negative reactions.

Divestiture procedures.      The new procedures provide a useful tool to NCP for the elimination of
reputational risk and, in this light, they are likely to be sustained. There remains some risk that the form of
divestiture for some specific transactions may be altered in response to political pressure from either
Government leaders or various stakeholder groups.

Power sector legislation and management contract.               Sustainability is likely to be low, even after
acceptable legislation is completed, without supporting reforms particularly with regard to the low
operating efficiency of the National Power Authority.

Port restructuring. Sustainability is likely to be high. The Government will benefit from increased
revenues as trade flows increase and port operational costs decrease.

Cadastral system. Both the MMR and the MOF stand to gain in terms of revenues and an improved ability
to administer mineral rights.        Sustainability is at risk, however, from weak capacity within the
implementing ministry. This may be ameliorated through capacity building the continued strong support
from the donor community for better administration of the diamond producing areas, notably from DfID,
UNDP, USAID and the World Bank.

Pilot extension services. Sustainability would depend upon the degree of government support which will, in
turn, depend upon the perceived benefits of the system to the MMR, the MOF and the mining community.
Thus far, it appears the Government is committed to an expansion of the pilot to cover the entire nation.
The first step is already completed: MOF provided MMR with a higher budgetary allocation for this
purpose in the 2005 budget.

Human Resource Development

Educational service delivery. Sustainability will improve when a viable sector-wide plan is adopted and
implemented. This is likely, given the collaboration between the MEST and the World Bank on the
Country Strategy Report and the follow-up from the Fast Track Initiative.

Distribution of essential drugs. Sustainability is likely to be moderate until tensions are resolved between
the role of the Ministry of Health and the roles of the local councils and district health facilities in
procurement.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

See Section 6.1

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory. The identification process focused on critical gaps and opportunities for interventions in
various sectors, including macroeconomic and mining sectors. The project's objective was consistent with



                                                       - 15 -

   the Government's PRSP and the Bank's CAS.

   The choice of policy areas and the proposed actions were informed by the need to deepen existing reforms
   and the result of consultations with all stakeholder ministries. The content was also discussed with
   representatives of the IMF, AfDB, DFID and EC. This coordination, from all parties, laid the foundation
   for the planned Framework for Multi-donor Budgetary Support. The grant therefore acted as a bridge
   between the ERRC series and the new series of programmatic Development Policy Operations as
   envisioned in the CAS.

   The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and
   appraisal. During the appraisal, the Bank assessed the grant's risks and benefits. Extensive stakeholder
   consultations were also made during preparation. The Country Director, the Country Manager, TTL, and
   the task team were highly committed to the objective of the grant, and they were flexible and responsive to
   local needs.

   There were some areas where the Bank could have done better. While all prior actions were achieved, only
   six of nine triggers were fully met, two were delayed due to unforeseen complexities (financial sector laws
   and power sector legislation) while the third (on model mining agreements) was delayed as a consequence
   of new guidance coming from the IMF Fiscal Affairs Department. This suggests more time could have
   been invested in exploring the nature of the triggers prior to pre-appraisal and appraisal. In addition, the
   substantive delays in hiring core staff for the NPPA suggest that the team may not have fully appreciated
   the capacity constraints within NPPA and/or lack of consensus within the Government associated with this
   task. A similar point could be made for the delays in the cadastral implementation in Kono District.

   7.2 Supervision:

   Highly satisfactory.     The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was highly
   satisfactory. The grant was intensively supervised and closely monitored by the Bank. Implementation
   problems were identified early and addressed proactively. Each mission included follow-up on previous
   guidance. An Implementation Status Report (ISR) was filed after the release of funds.           In light of the
   fragility of the state and its low capacity, it was appropriate to have at four supervision missions instead of
   the Bank norm of three.

   The Bank, the Borrower and other development partners worked very well together. In order to help
   Government achieve the mining cadastre system condition, DFID, UNDP and the Bank collaborated in a
   well coordinated manner, using each other's resources to achieve common objectives. The best example of
   this is the MDBS MOU with the PAF oriented around PFM issues. Another good example is the
   collaboration among the Bank, Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) and DFID which supports the
   private sector development program.

   7.3 Overall Bank performance:

   Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal
and implementation.


   Borrower
   7.4 Preparation:




                                                         - 16 -

Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the grant was satisfactory. The Borrower
was consistently committed to the objective of the grant. The Government officials worked closely with the
Bank's team with full cooperation.

The grant was brought to the Board of Executive Directors for approval upon the strength of the
Government's commitment to its program of reform and poverty reduction.            This commitment was
demonstrated not only through the completion of all ERRG IV prior actions but also by the completion of a
number of subsequent triggers for the next DPO.

Donor coordination was led by the Government through bi-monthly meetings of the Sierra Leone
Development Partnership Committee, chaired by the Vice President of Sierra Leone and comprising the
Government and its development partners.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. Overall, the Government performance was satisfactory with regard to the prior actions
required for disbursement.

The Government was committed to ERRG IV. The Government made good progress in carrying out the
reform program described in the Letter of Development Policy. The administration of the grant was the
responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. To facilitate program implementation and the coordination of
activities, the Government had appointed an inter-ministerial Steering Committee chaired by the Minister of
Finance. This Committee was composed of key Ministers and the Governor of the Bank of Sierra Leone.
The Steering Committee was assisted by a Technical Committee comprising high level staff from various
line ministries and the Bank of Sierra Leone. The Technical Committee was chaired by the Financial
Secretary and was responsible for coordinating the activities of all Government agencies involved in
program implementation.

On the other hand, the Bank was never provided with the minutes from the Steering Committee and MOF
was unable to effectively monitor all elements of the reform program. Procurement reform and cadastre
implementation, in particular, had slipped substantially and required intensive Bank supervision. This
slippage has affected the timing of the next DPO, moving the expected Board presentation date from the
Government's third quarter to its fourth quarter. Further slippages could therefore jeopardize the 2006
budget.

The Government did not have the capacity to implement on a timely basis nor closely monitor
implementation. In future operations, the Government may wish to seek a better fit between triggers and
capacity in the short-run and seek to build capacity in the medium-term through recruitment and training
programs aimed at skilled technical staff.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

While the Ministry of Finance is the borrower, it has to coordinate with several other ministries for the
implementation of several triggers for the FY06 DPO. This coordination was adequate for some triggers
but there were a few areas where Government could have done better. Two of these are highlighted below.

The substantive delays in hiring core staff for the NPPA suggest that the Government may have entered
into negotiations without fully appreciating the managerial capacity within NPPA and any lack of



                                                   - 17 -

consensus within Government associated with the urgency of this task.

Government may not have been fully aware of the capacity constraints within the Ministry of Mineral
Resources as regards the implementation of the cadastral system, particularly with regard to procurement.
In addition, the delays in the cadastral implementation in Kono District may not have attracted sufficient
attention because key stakeholders were not made fully aware of its potential for improved revenue tracking
and conflict resolution, particularly the MOF, the National Revenue Authority, the chieftancies and the
NGOs.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The following lessons are largely reconfirmations of lessons learned under ERRC I-III. It is possible that
they may be extended to other countries characterized by low capacity, resulting from conflict or other
causes, and high aid dependency.

Bank-related.

The single tranch model is not a guarantee of predictable funds release. As discussed in Section 7.5
above, delays in completing triggers (later converted to prior actions) have affected the timing of the DPO
scheduled for 2006 to the point where there is some risk that the Board date will come too late for
disburement in the 2006 budget year. In this light, it is essential that Government and the Bank work
together even more closely on the following four points:

Identification

   l Be proactive in facilitating good outcomes.The Government should be made fully aware of the
        technical and financial requirements of each agreed reform at the identification stage of the
        operation in order to facilitate implementation later. To be fully successful, the implementation of
        policy must be supported by other instruments that provide technical assistance and help build
        country capacity step by step. This backstopping should be coordinated with key development
        partners in the donor community because the Bank's resources are limited.

   l Reduce complexity. The Bank should align the number and complexity of triggers (or conditions)
        with the administrative and implementing capacity of Government. This is now being pusued in
        coordination with the AfDB, DfID and EC as part of the MDBS initiative.

Supervision

   l Find an empowered leader from within the Government to coordinate implementation of the
        reform program. The existance of a Steering Committee to monitor the reform program is not
        sufficient to ensure good results. The probability of success will be increased when there is a senior
        government official who has the responsibility and authority to lead and coordinate reforms across
        all stakeholder ministries.




                                                   - 18 -

    l Be prepared to invest extra resources into the supervision effort. Fragile states and countries
        emerging from post-conflict situations may require much more detailed programs than usually seen
        in other development policy operations. Where the administration lacks an effective work planning
        and monitoring system, it is unlikely that milestones will be achieved unless they are further broken
        down into actions and institutional responsibility is clearly assigned. This suggests the need for
        close monitoring and supervision. The Bank should therefore provide a post-conflict premium to
        the supervision budget in the same way it provides a post-conflict premium to the IDA allocation.

Government-related.

Find a champion from within the Government to lead the reform program. (As above.)

In the short-run, Government may wish to seek a better fit between triggers, the degree of consensus
within Government leadership circles and the degree of technical and administrative capacity within
implementing ministries.

Embark on a medium-term comprehensive program of capacity building. The Government may wish to
focus on capacity building through recruitment and training programs aimed at increasing the number of
technically skilled staff who can implement needed reforms and investment projects. This will not only
improve service delivery but also reduce the risk that implementation slippages would be translated into
delays in tranche releases. Government could request donor assistance for this purpose.

Donor-related.

The partnership and coordination between the World Bank, Government, AfDB, DFID, EC and UNDP can
lead to successful achievements as demonstrated by the outcome of the credit. The design of the Bank
support for policy reforms should therefore continue to seek to integrate the efforts of other active donors.
The MDBS MOU and PAF can form a good platform for additional, deeper coordination that should be
pursued.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

See Annex 8

(b) Cofinanciers:

NA

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

NA

10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:

Douglas Addison           Task Team Leader
Sati Achath               Consultant
Sathish Vadavattath       Consultant



                                                   - 19 -

Pierre Lenaud          Program Assistant

B. Person's Interviewed for the Preparation of the ICR:

Robert Blake           Sector Manager
James Sackey           Country Manager
Leo Maraboli           Sr. Mining Specialist
David Rudge            Sr. Highway Engeneer
Yongmei Zhou           PFM and Decentralization Specialist
Gylfi Palsson          Sr. Transport Specialist
Eunice Dapaah          Education Specialist
Mohammed Warritay      Economic Policy Research Unit, Ministry of Finance
Lisa Curtis            DFID Expert on PSD
Tony Bennett           DFID Consultant on PFM




                                                  - 20 -

   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


      Theme                Prior Actions                 Triggers for Presenting             Other Agreed Actions                  Activities Completed
                                 for                      Next Operation to the                  ("Milestones")                       under ERRG IV
                             ERRG IV                               Board


Governance          Enactment     of   an   acceptable                                                                           Achieved
Framework           Government       Budgeting      &
                    Accountability Act.
                                                        Adoption of implementation plan                                          Achieved
                                                        for revision of regulations in
                                                        conformance         with        new
                                                        Government       Budgeting      and
                                                        Accountability Act.
Decentralization    To facilitate the decentralization                                                                           Achieved
                    process, committee members of
                    the Local Government Finance
                    Committee will be appointed and
                    take up their duties in accordance
                    with the Local Government Act.
                                                        Government      will     i)   adopt                                      Achieved
                                                        regulations specifying details of
                                                        the local government transfer
                                                        formulas and ii) publish in the
                                                        Sierra Leone Gazette the details of
                                                        the transfer formulas and the
                                                        details of the central government
                                                        transfers to each local council.
                                                                                            At least 5 local councils pass the   Achieved
                                                                                            minimum        conditions       for
                                                                                            disbursement under the Local
                                                                                            Government Development Grant
                                                                                            Operational Manual.
Budget Process                                                                              The budget cycle is to start earlier Partially achieved
                                                                                            and     with    more      frequent
                                                                                            involvement by Cabinet at policy
                                                                                            making stage.

                                                                                            Cabinet decisions on strategic       Not achieved
                                                                                            issues such as the trade-offs
                                                                                            between spending on personnel,
                                                                                            goods and development are issued
                                                                                            in advance of the budget call
                                                                                            circular.
                                                                                            Strategic  budget    plans    with   Partially achieved
                                                                                            monitorable indicators for the
                                                                                            period    2006-08    should      be
                                                                                            completed    by   the    following
                                                                                            ministries:           Agriculture,
                                                                                            Education, Health and Public
                                                                                            Works.
Procurement Reform  The Boards of the National Public                                                                            Achieved
                    Procurement Authority and the
                    Independent Procurement Review
                    Panel will be established along
                    with procurement committees in
                    the      following      ministries:
                    Agriculture, Education, Health,
                    Mineral   Resources,    Transport,
                    Works, Defense and Police.
                                                        The National Public Procurement                                          Not yet achieved
                                                        Authority and its Secretariat and
                                                        the Independent Review Panel will
                                                        be staffed and operational by
                                                        mid-2005.




                                                                   - 21 -

                                                           Procurement plans approved by                                            Achieved
                                                           MOF will be completed for the
                                                           following ministries for the 2006
                                                           budget:   Agriculture, Education,
                                                           Health,    Mineral      Resources,
                                                           Transport, SLRA, Works, Defense
                                                           and Police.
Accountant General's   Government      has     advertised                                                                           Achieved
Department             positions   for  the  Accountant
                       General and two deputies.
                                                           Government     has   appointed  a                                        Largely achieved.
                                                           qualified Accountant-General and
                                                           two qualified deputies.
                                                                                              Government has installed and          Achieved
                                                                                              tested the IFMIS in the MOF and
                                                                                              implemented the new chart of
                                                                                              accounts.
Internal and External  Government     has    adopted    a                                                                           Achieved
Audit                  medium-term expenditure plan,
                       acceptable to the Association, and
                       approved by both the Minister of
                       Finance and the Auditor-General,
                       for staffing the Office of the
                       Auditor-General.
                                                                                              By the start of 2006, the Auditor     Not Achieved
                                                                                              General's Department is staffed
                                                                                              with a complement of at least 8
                                                                                              qualified auditors.
                                                                                              Functioning       internal     audit  Partially Achieved
                                                                                              departments or units with staff
                                                                                              operating under the Chief Internal
                                                                                              Auditor will be established within
                                                                                              the   following    ministries    and
                                                                                              agencies: Agriculture, Education,
                                                                                              Health,    Minerals,     Transport,
                                                                                              SLRA, Works, Defense and SLP.
                                                                                              Complete and publish in the Sierra    Being implemented
                                                                                              Leone Gazette the next PETS
                                                                                              report    on    procurement      and
                                                                                              distribution of agricultural inputs.
Public Service Reform                                                                         The 2006 Budget Speech will           Not achieved
                                                                                              include    details   of   personnel
                                                                                              employment and expenditures for
                                                                                              all MDAs and local councils for
                                                                                              2006 with notional estimates for
                                                                                              2007-08. A additional table for
                                                                                              2006     will   summarize       total
                                                                                              employment and salary ranges by
                                                                                              grade.
                                                                                              Government will draft legislation     Partially achieved
                                                                                              strengthening the mandate of the
                                                                                              Establishment Secretary's Office
                                                                                              (to   be   renamed    the    Human
                                                                                              Resource Management Office),
                                                                                              provide    guidance    on     human
                                                                                              resource policy to Ministries in the
                                                                                              annual budget call circular and
                                                                                              establish annual formal manpower
                                                                                              hearings as an integral part of the
                                                                                              national budget process.
Investment Climate     Implementation of the ECOWAS                                                                                 Achieved
                       CET in 2005 through adoption a
                       new tariff schedule and training of
                       customs staff.
                                                           Government      will   submit  to                                        Partially achieved
                                                           Parliament      an      acceptable
                                                           Companies Act and Bankruptcy
                                                           Act.
                                                                                              Government will draft a new law       Not achieved



                                                                      - 22 -

                                                                                           governing competition policy.
                                                                                           Begin implementation of Phase I      Being implemented
                                                                                           and II of the Administrative
                                                                                           Barriers study.
                                                                                           Begin the identification of barriers Being implemented
                                                                                           to access to long-term credit in
                                                                                           collaboration with an IMF/World
                                                                                           Bank FSAP team.
Public Enterprise                                      NCP will publish acceptable clear                                        Achieved
Reform                                                 and transparent procedures to be
                                                       followed for the sale, transfer or
                                                       disposal of equity and assets,
                                                       ideally by June 2005.
                                                       An acceptable National Power                                             Being implemented
                                                       Authority    law   mandating    an
                                                       independent regulatory structure is
                                                       brought to Parliament.
                                                                                           A management contract for NPA        Being implemented
                                                                                           is put into place.
                                                                                           Government will divest SLPA of       Being implemented
                                                                                           non-core       activities,    make
                                                                                           arrangements for private sector
                                                                                           operation of port operations and
                                                                                           restructure SLPA as a landlord
                                                                                           port    authority  and    technical
                                                                                           regulator.
                                                                                           Government will adopt a Road         Partially achieved.
                                                                                           Maintenance Institutional Action
                                                                                           Plan..
Minerals and Metals  Adoption by MMR and MOF of                                                                                 Achieved
                     an   acceptable   implementation
                     plan   for   the  operation  and
                     expansion of the cadastre for the
                     period 2005-07
                     Adoption    by   MMR      of  an                                                                           Achieved
                     acceptable 5 year implementation
                     plan for the conversion of pilot
                     extension services to full scale
                     services beginning in 2005.
                                                       Satisfactory implementation of the
                                                       action plans for the cadastre and
                                                       extension services.
                                                       i) MMR will begin operation of
                                                       the cadastre system in the Kono
                                                       district in 2005.                                                        Being implemented
                                                       ii) MMR will gradually provide a
                                                       full range of extension services
                                                       across the nation.
                                                                                                                                Being implemented
                                                       Government will begin developing                                         Work has begun
                                                       model agreements for each major
                                                       mineral     and  metal.     These
                                                       agreements        will     govern
                                                       investment, operation and taxation
                                                       of future mineral and metal
                                                       activities. All preparatory fiscal
                                                       work will be completed by March
                                                       2006, legal work will follow.
                                                                                           Begin implementation of Core         Partially achieved
                                                                                           Mineral Policy,

                                                                                           Kimberly and                         Achieved


                                                                                           EITI principles.                     Under discussion
                                                                                           To      bring    MMR      up     to  Achieved
                                                                                           internationally         competitive
                                                                                           standards    for  the   quality  of




                                                                   - 23 -

                                  services and regulation provided
                                  to investors and the mining
                                  community, MMR and MOF
                                  agree to formulate and adopt an
                                  acceptable    5    year    capacity
                                  building plan aimed at addressing
                                  the    main    technological   and
                                  administrative    constraints  and
                                  issues that are adversely affecting
                                  mineral sector development..
Health and Education              The Min. of Education, Min. of      Being implemented
                                  Finance      and     Establishment
                                  Secretary adopt an acceptable
                                  sector-wide    development    plan
                                  following EFA/ETI standards and
                                  complete a census of schools.
                                  Revised     procedures    for   the Being implemented
                                  procurement and distribution of
                                  essential drugs are published and
                                  distribution   targets  for   each
                                  district are publicized in local
                                  newspapers and/or are posted on
                                  their notice boards.




                        - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Available electronically.




                                      - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

NA




                                      - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               12/2004                   5    Snr. Economist, TTL (1)               S               S
                                              Mining Expert (1)
                                              Procurement (1)
                                              PFM Expert (1)
                                              Education Specialist (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               03/2005                   5    Snr. Economist, TTL (1)               S               S
                                              Mining Expert (1)
                                              Procurement (1)
                                              PFM (1)
                                              Decentralization (1)




 Supervision
               07/2005                    5   Snr. Economist, TTL (1)               S               S
                                              Mining Expert (2)
                                              Procurement (1)
                                              Decentralization (1)
                                              PSD Expert (1)
               11/2005                    4   Snr. Economist, TTL (1)               S               S
                                              Mining Expert (1)
                                              Procurement (1)
                                              Banking (1)

 ICR
               06/2006                   2     Snr. Economist (1)                   S               S
                                               Consultant (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              13.67                        47.715
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   13.67                        47.715
  Supervision                             11.59                        47.857
  ICR                                      3.86                        15.952
  Total                                    42.8                       159.239




                                               - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports.

2. Consultant study reports financed under the grant

3. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated April 2006; and

4. Program Document for Sierra Leone: Fourth Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Grant, dated May
   3, 2005 (Report No. 31386-SL)

5. Implementation Status Reports.




                                                  - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrowers Evaluation Report

1. Institutional Development Impact.

The provision of funds under the ERRG IV enhanced government's capacity under the Sierra Leone
Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) framework to embark on sustainable economic development. The
foreign exchange resources of the grant enabled the importation of essential commodities including food
products, petroleum products, raw materials and intermediate goods, by providing financial resources
through the Weekly Foreign Exchange Auction system of the Bank of Sierra Leone to meet private sector
requirements. The proceeds of funds enabled government to raise the resources required to finance priority
public expenditures, support reforms to attract private investment, and to close the financing gap for the
maintenance of macroeconomic stability.

Hence, the grant contributed and facilitated economic growth, ameliorated supply constraints and poverty
reduction.

Macroeconomic performance

The GDP Growth Rate: Underpinned by continued broad recovery in agriculture, mining, construction and
the service sectors, real GDP growth was estimated at 7.3 percent in 2005 compared with 7.4 percent in
2004.

Inflation Rate: The year-on-year inflation rate as measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for
Freetown fell from 14.39 percent at the end of 2004 to 13.10 percent at the end of 2005. The average
inflation rate fell from 14.24 percent in 2004 to 11.99 percent in 2005. High fuel prices and the impact of a
monetary expansion due to late donor disbursements led to a gradual increase in the year-on-year rate,
which reached a peak in September and ameliorated towards end-year. Fuel and power continued to put an
upward pressure on the inflation rate during 2005. The impact of higher fuel prices due to the high world
price of oil was significant, with the year-on-year increase in fuel prices reaching 90 percent in November.

Interest Rates: Savings, 12-month deposit, treasury bills and bearer bonds rates all decreased in 2005,
whilst the lending rates increased during the same period. The commercial bank savings rate fell from 8.14
percent at the end of December 2004 to 7.63 percent at the end of December 2005. The 12-month deposit
rate fell from 13.42 percent in December 2004 to 12.83 percent in December 2005. The rate for treasury
bearer bonds also fell from 22 percent to 19 percent during the same period. Prime lending rate of
commercial banks rose to 24 percent from 23 percent at the end of 2004. The minimum commercial banks'
overdraft lending rate increased from 23 percent to 24 percent while the maximum fell from 34 percent to
30 percent between 2004 and 2005.

Balance of Payments: Merchandise imports were higher by 18.75 percent in 2005 compared with 2004,
rising from US$ 286.4 million in 2004 to US$ 340.1 million in 2005. Imports also increased in terms of
GDP, rising from 26.75 percent in 2004 to 28.52 percent in 2005. The increase was accounted for mainly
by an increase in the imports of Machinery and Transport equipment (41.22 percent), Chemicals (29.73
percent) and Manufactured goods which increased by 27.73 percent.

Mineral Fuel and Lubricants constituted the largest share of total imports (33.98 percent) in 2005 and it
remained the main component rising from US$ 94.8 million in 2004 to US$ 115.5 million in 2005,
reflecting the rising world price of oil as well as higher domestic consumption.



                                                      - 31 -

However, imports of Food and Animal and Vegetables oils fell by 8.5 percent and 33.56 percent
respectively in 2005. Exports grew by 9.28 percent to US$ 152.6 million in 2005 from US$ 139.7 million
in 2004. Exports however fell slightly as a share of GDP, from 13.04 percent in 2004 to 12.80 percent in
2005. Diamond exports formed by far the largest share of total exports at 89.1 percent in 2005. However,
the dependence on diamond exports fell slightly compared to a figure of 90.4 percent in 2004. Mineral
exports in 2005 still overwhelmingly consisted of Diamonds, with Gold exports amounting to just US $
263,500.

The current account deficit on the balance of payments widened to US$ 187.4 million in 2005 compared to
US$ 146.7 million in 2004; this represented an increase from 13.7 percent of GDP to 15.7 percent. This
was mainly due to the surge in imports which more than outweighed the increase in exports.

Exchange Rate: The total amount of foreign exchange offered for sale by the Bank of Sierra Leone at the
weekly foreign exchange Auction amounted to US$ 44.7 million, compared to US$ 57.3 million offered for
sale in 2004. The value of accepted bids amounted to US$65.8 million in 2004, compared to US$ 78.1
million in 2004. Excess demand dropped by 33.2 percent from US$ 32.1 million in 2004 to US$ 24.4
million in 2005.

The lower excess demand for foreign exchange and the increase in foreign reserves with prudent economic
policies moderated pressure on the exchange rate. The average official exchange rate depreciated by 7.6
percent from Le 2,667.68 per US$ in 2004 to Le 2,872.20 per US$ at in 2005.The parallel market rate
depreciated to Le 2,962.87 per US$ in 2005 from Le 2,854.61 per US$ in 2004. Given the higher rate of
depreciation of the official exchange rate compared to the parallel market rate, the parallel market premium
narrowed down from 7 percent in 2004 to 3.2 percent in 2005.

Progress achieved in structural reforms:

Decentralization. In accordance with the Local Government Act, in 2005, the local government transfer
formulas to local councils were finalized, adopted, and published in the Sierra Leone Gazette.
Disbursement to local councils for the second half of 2005, although incomplete and late, was done after
the Devolution Workshop finalized the implementation steps relating to the devolution of responsibilities,
staff, assets, and funds of DEC schools, primary health and agriculture.

Anti-Corruption Commission. Since the inception of the ACC in March 2004, government has taken
further steps to strengthen its institutional arrangements to fight against endemic corruption. In the bid to
effectively implement the anti- corruption strategy, Integrity Officers (IOs) were appointed from various
Ministries in August 2005. These officers were given basic training in Action Plan preparation. A Civil
Society Monitoring Group was also established to monitor the activities of the Commission. In the context
of a new arrangement reached with respect to the prosecution of ACC cases, a committee comprising two
special prosecutors and one law officer would henceforth prosecute ACC cases with full support of the
Attorney General's Office.

Civil Service Reforms

Management and Functional Reviews. The management and functional reviews under Phase I of the
Governance Reform Project funded by DFID of six key ministries, viz. Education, Health, Agriculture,
Defence, Local Government, and Trade were completed. The Action Plan for the Ministry of Local
Government was approved by Cabinet and implementation of the plans commenced.


                                                     - 32 -

The plan for establishing a Human Resources Management Office was also approved. The Steering
Committee on good governance endorsed the plan for transforming the Establishment Secretary's Office
into a Human Resources Management Office. Accordingly, on Tuesday 22 November 2005, His
Excellency the President signed the Executive Clearance and one month later, approved the plan on 22
December 2005, which was endorsed by Cabinet.

Wage Reforms. To maximize work output and efficiency of public sector workers, Government in January
2005 adjusted upwards workers' minimum wages and salaries from Le 21,000 in 1996 to Le40, 000 per
month. Payment of increased transport allowances of Le5, 000 including backlog for March and April for
all MDAs were also settled in May 2005.

The NASSIT contribution of 12.5% including 2.5% to meet the cost of validation on past services of public
sector workers prior to the establishment of NASSIT was also fully implemented.

To minimize the incidence of "ghost" workers, the month-to-month updating of the database for civil
servants and teachers by the Establishment Secretary's Office was fully on course. This important measure
provides the means to update the payroll database of the Accountant General's Department.

Strengthening Fiscal and Public Financial Management

Domestic Revenue Mobilization. Since its inception, the National Revenue Authority (NRA) has embarked
on a number of reforms to improve tax administration and maximization of tax receipts. Tax administration
has been significantly improved through the creation of Tax Districts and Taxpayer Service Units (TSU) in
each district. The NRA has also established a Large Taxpayer Unit (LTU) to improve the management of
tax arrears, reviewed the procedures used for the clearing of goods at the port, established Flexible
Anti-Smuggling Teams (FAST) to combat smuggling, and a strategy for the computerization of tax
procedures. It has also conducted an effective publicity and education campaigns to sensitize taxpayers on
their obligations.

The Government Gold and Diamond Evaluation Office became fully integrated into the NRA's Income Tax
Department to facilitate the collection of the Withholding Tax for diamond exports. The collection of
non-tax revenues has also been fully delegated to NRA. The NRA has developed appropriately securitized
receipts which are now used for the collection and assessment of both tax and non-tax revenues.

With the support of the Commonwealth Secretariat (COMSEC), the Income Tax Act, the Sales Tax Act,
and Customs Act have all been amended and are now consistent with the National Revenue Authority Act,
which commenced in 2004. Government has also joined the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative
(EITI) to ensure maximum transparency in the collection of mineral revenues.

The revenue proposal to adjust our tariff to the Common External Tariff (CET) of ECOWAS started in
January 2005 and is designed to be completed in three phases. The first phase witnessed the reduction in
the rates of 17 commodity types whilst 75 commodity types increased. The second phase of the
implementation of the CET commenced in 2006. Joining the ECOWAS Common External Tariff will allow
Sierra Leone to benefit from the envisaged Economic Partnership Agreement with the European Union.

Procurement Reforms. The members of the Independent Procurement Panel and Appeals Board were
approved by Parliament in April 2005 and the implementing Regulations were gazetted by end February
2006. The Procurement Plans for the following MDAs: Defense, MEST, MoH, SLRA, MMR, SLP,


                                                   - 33 -

Works, Agriculture and Transport and Communications have been submitted and currently undergoing
review by Ministry of Finance. NPPA also opened a website on the Internet in February 2005 where all
information relating to procurement matters can be accessed.

Public Financial Management. Government continued to strengthen and deepen the Public Financial
Management (PFM) system to facilitate the successful implementation of the pro-poor policies articulated
in the Sierra Leone Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. The new IFMIS and the Chart of Accounts
introduced in 2003 in the Accountant General's Department were fully implemented. Many workshops and
training sessions were organized by the Ministry of Finance for all MDAs in the use of the Budget
Management Software (BMS) and the knowledge gained was utilized by MDAs in the preparation of their
Strategic Budget Plans for the 2006 financial year.

All government units and accounts that should be included in the new reporting system for monetary and
fiscal data have been identified, and benchmark annual data for 2004 has been established. The Fiscal and
Monetary Reconciliation Committee identified 47 subvented agencies and 22 PIUs for the benchmark fiscal
year 2004. The benchmark annual data for 2004 has also been established for the units including the
treasury accounts.

The new government Budgeting and Accountability Bill which was laid before Parliament at end 2004 was
approved into law and became fully effect.

Public Expenditure Tracking Surveys. Since 2002, Public Expenditure Tracking Surveys have been
conducted and findings published as part of government's continuing effort to ensure transparency and
accountability in the efficient management of the flow of public resources from government to intended
beneficiaries. The fifth PETS for FY 2004 was conducted in September 2005 and covered the distribution
of seed rice in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Food Security, distribution of essential drugs in
the Ministry of Health & Sanitation, and the distribution of learning materials in the Ministry of Education,
Science, and Technology. The results of this survey were compiled, collated, and analyzed and published.

Promoting Private Sector Development

The National Commission for Privatization (NCP) embarked on a number of projects to actualize the
privatization of certain state enterprises. NCP commenced the divestiture of the non-core activities of the
Sierra Leone Ports Authority (SLPA) and made arrangements for private sector operations. For this
purpose, Government recruited a General Manager from Ghana Ports and Harbour to assist in the reform
process including the setting up of a Project Management Committee. In October 2005, Government signed
for funds from the World Bank to operationalise various activities at the ports.

A contract for the management of the National Power Authority (NPA) was also concluded. The
advertisement for its management was published and expressions of interest were received. Bidders were
short listed and approved by the World Bank. The final draft of the request for proposals were prepared in
April 2005 and sent to the World Bank for approval.

Strengthening the Audit Service

Government took proactive steps in 2005 to ensure that the Auditor General's Department is strengthened
and functioning effectively as provided for in the 1998 Audit Service Act. Of the four Deputy positions
extant in the Audit service, two Deputies were appointed with the desired academic and professional
qualifications. Under the re-structuring programme supported by DFID-UK, the third and fourth Deputy


                                                   - 34 -

Auditor- General positions would be filled through open competition. The staff strength stood at 137 at
end 2005 which represented two- thirds of the GoSL ­ UK structural benchmark. The audits of MoH and
MODEP and several other ministries were completed. The Ministry of Lands made a commitment to
process the necessary documents for the transfer of plots of land in the provinces to ASC.

Further to letters sent by the Auditor-General to defaulters, the recovery of monies recommended to be
recovered by the Public Accounts Committee's report on the accounts of 1996-1999 was in progress. Thus
far, $11,400 was recovered. For the six biggest losses, however, the Criminal Investigation Department
was compiling evidence for court action to be taken against defaulters. Deliberations of Public Accounts
Committee of Parliament on the accounts for 2000 to 2002 also commenced.

2. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

The technical delays in the disbursement of programmed external inflows led to a substantial reduction in
the orderly supply of foreign exchange to the weekly Foreign Exchange Auction. However, as stated above,
increased foreign reserves coupled with prudent economic policies moderated pressure on the exchange
rate.

On the domestic front, weak capacity in the implementing agencies including weak domestic revenue
performance in 2005 did not enable the achievement of the desired impact on the economy.

3. Sustainability

Macroeconomic performance has been strengthened on several fronts including lower inflation rate. Interest
rates and the exchange rate are market-determined. Real interest rates have remained positive while the
exchange rate remains relatively stable. With continue pursuance of programmes supported by our
development partners, there will be in relative terms, a sustained availability of official foreign exchange
through an auction system by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Satisfactory fiscal and budget management has
helped to reduce the fiscal deficit thereby curbing inflationary tendencies further. At the same time,
prospects for further international debt relief and better public debt management are better and our debt
service ratio will improve. This in turn will boost creditor confidence in the country. Although our grow
rate is relatively low, the growth path with real GDP growth rate between 6-7% per year indicate a
steadfast and sustainable economic development.

4. Lessons Learned

Cooperation and commitment of all implementing agencies in reforms from inception, preparation to
implementation stages to guarantee risk-free implementation of reform measures is crucial. As well, the
catalytic role of the Ministry of Finance in the monitoring, implementation and reporting of agreed reforms
with development partners have been of immense importance.




                                                   - 35 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrowers Comments on ICR


                                                                             Ministry of Finance
        Tel: (232-22) 225612                                                 Ministerial Building
        Fax: (232-22) 228472                                                 George Street
        Email: minfin@sierratel.sl                                           FREETOWN
                                                                             Sierra Leone

        MF-EA 302/6901                                                       26 June, 2006


        Mr Mats Karlsson
        Country Director for Sierra Leone
        Africa Region
        World Bank
        69 Dr. Isert Street
        North Region
        Accra, Ghana

        Fax: +233-21-227 887

        Dear Mr. Karlsson

        ERRG IV IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

        I am writing to confirm that the Government of Sierra Leone does not have any
        objection to the ERRG IV implementation Completion Report.

        Yours sincerely




        JOHN O BENJAMIN
        MINISTER OF FINANCE

        Cc:     James Sackey
                Country Manager
                World Bank Office
                FREETOWN

                Pilar Maisterra
                Country Program Coordinator
                World Bank

                Mr Douglas Addison
                Senior Country Economist



                                              - 36 -

World Bank
Washington DC




                 - 37 -

- 38 -

