Report No. PIC5483
Project Name                     Russia-Social Protection Implementation Loan
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Social Protection
Project ID                       RUPE46496
Borrower                         Government of the Russian Federation
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Labor and Social Development
Moscow, Russian Federation
Tel. 7-095-925-2414
Fax 7-095-925-2414
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           July 30, 1997
Appraisal Date                   July 10, 1997
Projected Board Date             October 9, 1997
Country and Sector Background
1.      Russia's major economic transformation of the past years has
had severe social costs. Since 1992, real incomes and output have
fallen by over 40%, and a gradual widening in income distribution
among population groups and between regions has occurred. High
average monthly rates of inflation have adversely affected the
population, especially those on fixed incomes. Real earnings have
fallen, and in 1996 real wages averaged less than half their level
in 1991. Increasing numbers of people have been subject to layoffs
and hours adjustment in the face of enterprise restructuring and
privatization, which has resulted in overstaffing and falling labor
demand. In 1996, only some 40% of the work force was paid fully and
on time. Unemployment, including hidden unemployment and
underemployment is now estimated to be about 15 percent. Wage and
pension arrears have accumulated rapidly: in 1996 only about 40% of
the work force was paid fully and on time. The dramatic changes in
income distribution widened gaps between various groups of the
population as well as between regions.
2.      The poor in Russia are primarily families with several
children, and those with an unemployed household member. This
pattern has in fact become more pronounced over time, as poverty
rates among these groups have risen faster than those for the
general population. By the end of 1995, households with children
under 18 years old were those with poverty rates almost 50% higher
than the general population, and those with even one unemployed
member had poverty headcounts more than 15 points above the
national average. In contrast, households with pensioners have not
been found to have high poverty rates on average, a finding which
is consistent with poverty assessments throughout the FSU. The
reasons for this include the better retention of the real value of



pensions relative to wages, the incidence of pensioners who both
work and receive full pensions, and the larger stock of assets
owned by pensioners at the start of the transition. However, there
are sub-groups of pensioners who are very poor, particularly those
living alone, who are predominantly women.
3.      Social insurance, unemployment assistance, child allowances
and social assistance programs (sickness and maternity benefits)
constitute the formal system of social protection that absorbed
some 8t of GDP in 1995, and accounts for over 15 percent of
households income. Social insurance and unemployment assistance are
financed through extra-budgetary funds, supported by payroll taxes
currently totaling 34.8w of the wage bill. Child allowances are a
universal benefit financed from local revenues and supplemented
with federal transfers. Such transfers are in the form of
unconditional block grants to oblasts for a range of federal
government obligations, of which child allowances are a designated
priority.
Project Objectives
4.      As a companion project to the Social Protection Adjustment
Loan, approved by the Board on June 25, 1997, the objectives of the
SPIL are to support implementation of measures under the SPAL to
gradually develop an effective system of income support and poverty
relief to meet the needs of a market economy. The key areas are
social insurance (including pensions and short-term insurance for
sickness and maternity), unemployment assistance, social
assistance, and child allowances.
Project Description
5.      The project would build upon ongoing efforts which provide
support for the implementation of the Government's Program of
Social Reform 1996-2000. The project would consist of five main
components:
(a)     The Pension Reform Component would include technical
assistance and equipment for: (i) assessing the Pension's Fund work
on the introduction of individual pension accounts and regulatory
framework; (ii) auditing of the Pension Fund; (iii) implementing an
action plan for improving collection; (iv) assisting the government
in drafting a concept paper and legislation on systemic pension
reform; (v) designing and implementing a public information and
communications campaign; (vi) implementing systemic pension reform;
and (vii) organization of actuarial activities
(b)     The Social Assistance Component would assist the
Government in: (i) designing and conducting programs in three
oblasts -- Komi, Volgograd, and Voronezh, to pilot different
methods of means-testing social assistance benefits, including
reviewing of legal framework of allowances at regional/local level;
(ii) conducting a national evaluation and dissemination programs of
the results of the pilots; and (iii) undertaking a feasibility
study and research on local delivery of social services.
- 2 -



(c)     The Social Protection Component would support MLSD in:
(i) putting in place a monitoring system of all regional and
national social transfers; (ii) monitoring and analysis of data in
the areas of pensions, unemployment, and poverty; (iii) conducting
a national survey of household welfare and program participation;
and (iv) reviewing public and private programs directed at child
protection, handicapped and homeless.
(d)     The Child Allowances Component would support (i) design
and implementation of programs to pilot the transfer of payment of
child allowances from enterprises to local social assistance
offices; and (ii) national dissemination of results from pilot
programs. The component would support and enable the transfer of
payment of child allowances from enterprises to social assistance
offices through the provision of necessary equipment, and training.
The project would fund the implementation of the transfer of
responsibilities in five oblasts -- Belgorod, Moscow, Novgorod,
Volgograd, Kaluga and Republic of Udmurtia, an oblast which has
already transferred these tasks to the local social assistance
offices. It will include dissemination of the experience of
transferring child allowances payments, including publishing
materials on the evaluation of the experience in Samara and that of
other oblasts to be supported by the project.
(e)     The Unemployment Assistance Component would include
provision of technical assistance to: (i) improve the collection
and use of Employment funds; (ii) audit of the Employment Fund;
(iii) develop and implement an evaluation mechanism of employment
programs; (iv) assist the Government to draft a new Labor Code; (v)
develop and implement pilot programs to support the long-term
unemployed; and (vi) evaluate experiences with public works programs.
Financing
6.      Total Project costs are tentatively estimated at US$36.33
million, of which about US$16.36 million (45 percent) is foreign
exchange requirements. It is expected that the Bank loan of US$28.5
million would finance approximately 78 percent of total costs. The
Government would contribute the remaining US$7.83 million or 22
percent of total projects costs.
Implementation
7.      The proposed project wold be implemented by the Ministry of
Labor and Social Development. Gosklomstat would implmement the
household survey portion of the project. The Social Protection
Offices in Belgorod, Kaluga, Komi, Moscow, Novgorod, Udmurtia,
Voronezh, and Volgograd oblasts will be responsible for the
implementation of the pilot social assistance and child allowance
components of the project.
8.      Because of the comprehensive nature, large scale, and
complexity of the objectives of the project, the Government will
assisgn responsibility for its implementation to the Russian
Foundation for Social Reforms. The Foundations is being established
- 3 -



as a non-commercial organization that will operate in accordance
with the legislation of the Russian Federation. It will provide
organization, technical, informational, and analytical support to
the imnplementation of the reform of social programs. The
Foundation will be responsible for implementation functions such as
project accounting, procurement, disbursements, consolidation of
quarterly and annual progress reports, annual work programs, and
budgets. A SPIL Coordinator will be appointed to oversee overall
project implementation.
Sustainability
9.      The proposed project is being specifically designed to
support the longer-term needs of the SPAL by putting in place the
institutional mechanisms and capacity for an orderly implementation
of the social reforms under the SPAL The SPIL would finance
technical assistance, training and equipment to support
implementation of the social reforms, including the design of the
legal and the necessary regulatory framework. Specifically, it
would provide support for filing critical skills gaps and capacity
building of local institutions in key areas of reform.
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank involvement
10.     While not the first project in the social sectors in Russia,
the SPAL is the first operation to attempt broad, systemic reforms
in the social sectors. The experience and recommendations for
improvements in implementation performance of Bank-financed
projects in Russia have been documented in great detail in the
report on the Second Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) in
February 1996. In particular, with a view to making improvements in
the "quality of entry" for upcoming projects, early attention is
required to address arrangements for: (i) ensuring ownership of the
project by those agencies/individuals who would be directly
responsible for implementation and to ensure the quality of
accounting of project funds; (ii) local counterpart funding; (iii)
taxation; (iv) project management; and (v) for setting up
procurement arrangements early during preparation. Moreover, the
social dimension of this project would build on earlier Bank
operations and sector work in Russia, including Employment Services
and Social Protection Project; Enterprise Housing Divestiture
Project; the Coal Sector Restructuring Implementation Assistance
Project; the Health Reform Pilot Project; the Medical Equipment
Project; sector work on the Russia Poverty Assessment, and the
Social Protection Report.
Poverty Category
11.     The project falls into the category of "Program of Targeted
Interventions". The policy reforms to be carried out by the SPAL
with institutional support from the SPIL will serve to raise and
stabilize incomes of the poor and strengthen social safety nets
over the medium term. These programs taken together, will improve
the lives of over 15 million people over the medium and longer
term. However, eliminating poverty in Russia will ultimately have
- 4 -



to come through restoring economic growth to general job
opportunities at higher real wages, couple with strengthening
investment in health and education services. The structural changes
in the different programs will provide Russia with a social safety
net that will be well targeted toward vulnerable groups beyond transition.
Environmental Aspects
12.     The proposed project provides technical assistance, training,
and provision of computer and other office equipment. As such, no
adverse impact on the environment is expected from the proposed project.
Program Objective Categories
13.     Through its attention to the more effective use of publicly
financed pension, unemployment, child allowance, and social
assistance resources, the project would contribute to the Bank's
Economic Management Objective. Women in Development Objectives are
being supported implicitly in several ways: (a) improved targeting
of child allowances and their delivery, because of their role as
the main child care givers; (b) defending the pension floor
benefits women predominantly; (c) the social assistance pilot
schemes will provide important feedback on gender aspects through
monitoring and beneficiary assessments; (d) better targeting
minimum unemployment benefits will help women.
Contact Point:           Betty Hanan, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-4525
Fax No.:   (202) 477-0711
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 15, 1997.
- 5 -



