                Document of
             The World Bank




                                          Report No: 29020

   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
           (SCL-42340 PPFB-P3220)

                   ON A

                   LOAN

    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 28.6 MILLION

                  TO THE

           RUSSIAN FEDERATION

                  FOR A

SOCIAL PROTECTION IMPLEMENTATION PROJECT




                June 9, 2004

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                (Exchange Rate Effective 06/09/2004)

                                    Currency Unit = Russian Ruble
                                        1.00 RUR = US$ 0.035
                                           US$ 1 = RUR 28.48

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                     January 1    December 31

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CA -         Child Allowance
CAS -        Country Assistance Strategy
CPPR -       Country Portfolio Performance Review
EF -         Employment Fund
FL -         Federal Law
GoR -        Government of Russia
Goskomstat - State Statistical Committee
MEDT -       Ministry of Economic Development and Trade
MLSD -       Ministry of Labor and Social Development
MOF -        Ministry of Finance
MTR -        Medium Term Review
NGO -        Non-Governmental Organization
PFR-         Pension Fund of Russia
PIU -        Project Implementation Unit
PPF -        Project Preparation Facility
RF-          Russian Federation
RFSR -       Russian Foundation for Social Reforms
SA -         Social Assistance
SIF -        State Insurance Fund
SMSES -      State Medical and Social Examination Service
SPAL -       Social Protection Adjustment Loan
SPIL -       Social Protection Implementation Loan
TA -         Technical Assistance
FY -         Fiscal Year

                                   Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                                 Country Director     Kristalina Georgieva
                                  Sector Manager      Hermann A. von Gersdorff
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Elena Zotova

                                 RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                   SOCIAL PROTECTION IMPLEMENTATION LOAN


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       30
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             35
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             39
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             41
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             42
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             43
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                44
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            45

Project ID: P046496                                                  Project Name: SOC PROT IMPL
Team Leader: Elena Zotova                                            TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 9, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: SOC PROT IMPL                                            L/C/TF Number: SCL-42340; PPFB-P3220
   Country/Department: RUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                 Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance (65%); Central
                            government administration (19%); Sub-national government
                            administration (16%)
                  Theme: Social risk mitigation (P); Social risk coping (P); Social risk
                            reduction (P); Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring (S); Law
                            reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/15/1996                                     Effective: 03/18/1998                07/01/1998
     Appraisal: 07/01/1997                                         MTR: 04/01/1999                  11/11/1999
      Approval: 10/07/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF RUSSIA/RUSSIAN FOUNDATION FOR SOCIAL
                                           REFORMS AND GOSKOMSTAT
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Kristalina I. Georgieva                        Michael Carter
Sector Manager:                 Hermann A. von Gersdorff                       Robert Liebenthal
Team Leader at ICR:             Elena Zotova                                   Betty Hanan
ICR Primary Author:             Arvo Kuddo; Ellott Hurwitz


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

Introduction

The social costs of Russia's economic transition have been severe. From 1992-97, real income and output
fell by over 40 percent, and disparities in income distribution worsened. The country's existing social
protection system (encompassing pensions, unemployment assistance, social assistance, child allowances,
and social insurance) was not able to cope effectively with this situation. The system was costly (8 percent
of GDP in 1995), but did not adequately fulfill either a poverty relief or an income replacement function.
Specific problems with the social protection system included: high costs, with extensive and poorly-targeted
coverage; an eroding payroll tax base, with a growing informal sector and growing arrears in federal
obligations; inadequate local resources; lack of a defined basic poverty benefit; and a large number of poor
households that did not receive any benefits.

The Social Protection Implementation Loan (SPIL) was one of the instruments utilized by the Bank to
address this situation. SPIL assistance was provided in priority areas identified by the complementary
Social Protection Adjustment Loan (SPAL) or by the government directly (as part of its sector reform
program).     SPIL was implemented in a very turbulent environment.             Difficulties included: periodic
gridlock between Government and the Duma; high turnover among policy officials, and frequent shifts in
Government political priorities; and the 1998 Russian financial crisis.


3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

In the Loan Agreement, the objectives of the Social Protection Implementation Loan were to:

-        Support implementation of a number of specific measures to be undertaken by the Borrower under
the Program to develop an effective system of income support and poverty relief suitable for the needs of a
market economy;
-        Fill critical skill gaps and build capacity in agencies and institutions of the Borrower in a number
of key areas essential to the effective achievement of the objectives of the Program.

The SPIL objectives and design need to be assessed in the context of Russia's reforms in the second half of
the 1990s. Since the 1996 elections and formation of the new government in April 1997, the Government
had become more concerned about social protection issues. This reflected the high political and social costs
of arrears in social payments, especially pensions, fiscal pressures, as well as a growing realization that
existing income transfer programs, even if fully funded, did not reach important vulnerable groups. The
Government's strategy was articulated in the program of Social reforms 1996-2000, approved by the
Government in February 1997, and in President Yeltsin's address to the Federal Assembly in March 1997.

In June, 1997, the Bank supported the Government's Social Protection reform program by approving the
Social Protection Adjustment Loan (SPAL) in the amount of US$ 800 million, which was intended to
gradually develop an effective system of income support and poverty relief to meet the needs of a market
economy. It also supported efforts to reduce the adverse effects of transition on the poor and vulnerable
groups. SPAL conditionality included provisions to implement some key elements developed under SPIL:
(a) drafting and adoption of new legislation on pension delivery, social insurance, labor relations and child
allowances; (b) pilot testing of the procedure of paying allowances to low income families; (c) auditing of
the Pension Fund and the State Employment Fund. SPAL was disbursed in three tranches (the last in
August 2000). So the SPIL was designed as a companion project to SPAL to ensure that the institutional



                                                      - 2 -

capacity to develop reforms was in place.

However, SPAL and SPIL had major differences, including objectives, institutional framework and
timeframe. SPAL had broad development objectives, while SPIL focused on exploring practical and
sometimes alternative solutions to social reform issues over a longer time frame. After the completion of
SPAL, the scope of SPIL was expanded to reflect new Government priorities that required changes in the
work plan.

3.2 Revised Objective:

As a result of adoption by the Russian Government of the 2000-2001 Plan to Modernize The Economy,
and following the Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) in January 2001, the overall SPIL
development objectives were revised:

-    Support development and implementation of the Government's social protection reform agenda; and
-    Gradually develop an effective system of income support and poverty relief consistent with the needs
     of a market economy.

Original development objectives were broadly formulated, and the revised objectives focused more
specifically on the Government reform agenda in progress as it was formulated            in the 2000-2001
Government Plan to Modernize The Economy, and the 2000-2002 Government Program of Social
Protection Activities.

3.3 Original Components:

The project comprised five main components:

(A)     Pension Reform
Provision of consultant services and training for modernizing and financially strengthening the pension
system (see listing of detailed sub-components in Section 10)
(B)     Social Assistance
Provision of consultant services and training to pilot various means-testing methodologies and evaluate and
review social assistance programs.
(C)     Social Protection
Provide consultant services, training and computer equipment to MLSD and Goskomstat to improve data
analysis and monitoring, and conduct a national survey of household welfare and program participation.
(D)     Child Allowances
Provision of consultant services, training and computer equipment for 6 pilot programs to reform child
allowance payments.
(E)     Unemployment Assistance
Provision of consultant services and training for developing new legislation and improving functioning of
existing employment programs.

The project was implemented by the Russian Foundation for Social Reforms (RFSR) and Goskomstat.
The Foundation was established as a non-commercial organization with broad representation on its board
(see Section 10). The Social protection offices in the 7 participating regions managed the pilot social
assistance and child allowance work.




                                                     - 3 -

3.4 Revised Components:

Following the Mid-Term Review in November 1999, CPPR discussions in January 2001, and concerns by
Bank staff that SPIL development objectives and implementation goals were not being fully met, the Bank
and the Borrower agreed on revised development objectives and components to match the 2000-2002 RF
Government Program of Social Protection Activities. (See Section 10). In particular, several new activities
were added to the SPIL work plan as a result of adoption by the Russian Government of the Plan to
Modernize Economy for 2000-2001, including: financial analysis of the Social Insurance Fund and the
Federal Fund for Health Insurance; improvement of the operation of the State Medical and Social
Examination Service (SMSES); provision of assistance to the Social Insurance Fund in connection with
introduction of mandatory social insurance for occupational injury and disease, and to the Pension Fund in
improving collections of pension contributions; development of standards in occupational classification.
Activities related to evaluation of experiences with public works programs and the review of programs
designed to support the long-term unemployed were dropped, partially resulting from the transfer of
financing and organizing ALMPs to regions.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

There was no QAG review at the time of project preparation; this ICR assesses quality at entry as
satisfactory. The operation was directly related to Government objectives identified in the Bank's 1997
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The CAS emphasized a lending program aimed at supporting
structural reforms for economic growth and sectoral development, through adjustment operations, if there
appeared to be substantial progress on a critical mass of structural reforms and a clear Government
commitment to their effective implementation (as noted, SPIL complemented SPAL). In the social sectors,
the CAS aimed at helping the Government develop cost-effective and affordable social protection programs
and social services adapted to the needs of the transition.

SPIL was highly relevant to the government's policy priorities in the social protection area. Progress in
reforming the legal, institutional, and managerial framework of the social protection system was considered
by both the government and the Bank to be very important to the country's development. ESW prior to
SPIL confirmed the that poverty was a critical issue, and underlined the importance of gaining a better
understanding of its incidence and magnitude. Similar analytic work pointed to the importance of gaining
more knowledge about child allowances, which in any case were accumulating arrears that were becoming
a major concern. Bank staff worked very closely with GoR officials, both at the policy and working levels,
in the identification of SPIL. However, as noted below, it took eight months after Board approval until the
project became effective.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Overall achievement of the project objectives is judged to be satisfactory. Especially in 2001-2003--after
SPAL closed--SPIL became the main tool for the Government to design and implement social protection
reforms. Overall, the project achieved main objectives of social policy reform, and as of mid-2004 the
Government remains committed to addressing key social protection reform issues. The project provided
technical assistance and training of staff to support an expanded social sector reform agenda, including
building local capacity in monitoring social programs, data analysis, review and assessment of ongoing
social programs, and design of new programs aimed at creating a more coherent and efficient system of
social services. In total, 187 TA contracts, 18 training contracts for 49 conferences and seminars; 33


                                                     - 4 -

procurement contracts and 5 publishing contracts for 32 publications were completed under SPIL.

The text in the following sections discusses the reforms achieved under SPIL.            Annex 1 concisely
documents that all of the project's outcome/impact indicators, as defined in the project documentation, have
been satisfactorily achieved.    However, project progress was uneven.         The figure below illustrates
graphically the overall progress of the project.      After a relatively smooth start, SPIL encountered
difficulties in the 18-month period from the beginning of 2000 to mid-2001. These included:

l Lower than expected disbursements, due to:
l Lower prices for procured items
l Slow responses from GoR
l Political turbulence (including elections in June 2000)
l Closing of SPAL and uncertain direction of GoR reforms
l GoR difficulty with inter-agency coordination



                                               Implementation problems,
                                                   Political turbulence        Intensified supervision


SPIL        1997          1998          1999          2000             2001         2002            2003


SPAL        1997          1998          1999          2000


                           Effective


          Effective                                  MTR       Close   CPPR


Moreover, in 2001-2003, a number of supplementary assignments were accomplished under the SPIL that
had not been envisaged by the Loan Agreement but met project development objectives.

The conditionality of the SPAL provided for the Borrower to implement key activities included in SPIL: (a)
drafting and adoption of new regulatory legal acts on pension delivery, social insurance, labor relations and
child allowances; (b) pilot testing of the procedure of paying allowances to low income families; (c)
financial review of the Pension Fund and State Employment Fund; and others. Apart from that, other
consulting and procurement services were provided for the benefit of territorial social protection offices.
Also the Social Insurance Fund, the Federal Fund for Health Insurance and the State Medical and Social
Examination Service benefited from supplementary activities of the SPIL. In particular, current legislation
regulating mandatory social insurance against occupational risks was reviewed and alternative approaches
to reforming mandatory social insurance against occupational risks in Russia were developed; new
requirements for the monitoring system directed at the disabled and for the evaluation of the effectiveness
of rehabilitation activities were developed; a software application was developed for local and regional
levels of SMSES and piloted in two regions to improve examination of the disabled, information processing
and development of rehabilitation programs.

The original closing SPIL date was December 31, 2001. However, in view of the need to complete
implementation of some key components, including enhanced scope of TA contracts and increased amount



                                                    - 5 -

of equipment, the SPIL closing date was extended twice, and eventually closed on December 31, 2003.

4.2 Outputs by components:

The principal outcomes of the project are as follows:

Component 1: PENSION REFORM - US$ 4.3 million

Overall, despite some delays in launching this component (most activities on the pension component were
launched starting from 2001), this component acted as a critical catalyst to pension reform, and a stimulus
to agreement on the main direction of the reform among all involved agencies. Outcome of the Component
is assessed as satisfactory.

The objective of this component was to support development of a fiscally affordable pension system. The
RF pension reform envisaging development of a three-tier system was approved by GOR Resolution No.
463, dated May 20, 1998. The program provides details of the Concept of systemic pension reform in the
Russian Federation approved by GOR in 1995. In the SPAL, the Government was planning to introduce
systemic pension reform by 2000. However, the financial crisis in 1998 had significant negative effects on
the prospects for adopting and implementing pension reform, and actual implementation of the pension
reform package started only in 2001.

Legal Reform--A detailed pension reform concept paper and a package of pension laws was prepared in
order to establish the main legal provisions of the Concept Paper (list of main laws is in Section 10); these
laws became effective on January 1, 2002. This created a legal, financial and institutional framework for
the functioning of the three-tier pension system.

Financial Review of the Pension Fund-- SPIL supported a Financial Review of the Pension Fund that
facilitated development of general guidelines for the improvement of accounting system in extra-budgetary
funds. Outputs of the PF financial review were utilized in establishing the Unified Pension Service of
Russia. As a result, the Pension Fund has evolved into a sort of a clearing center while initially it was a
contributions collection agency. A financial review of the Pension Fund was performed, but achieved only
limited benefits, and Pension Fund management did not initially accept the results. This was because the
financial review was conducted according to international accounting standards, using an accrual basis vs.
the cash basis commonly in use in the country (e.g., for Treasury and federal budget execution).

Pension Fund arrears were eliminated by October 1, 1999, and since then no new arrears have appeared
and PF revenues are currently larger than expenditures. The collection of contributions is now performed
by the Treasury and the collection rate has improved substantially.

A program of individual worker accounts was launched so that pension payments could be calculated on
the basis of actual payments made by employers for a worker rather than on the paper records kept by the
employer, which were often not accurate. This was designed both to strengthen internal controls of the
pension calculation and also to set the stage for implementing pension reform. At the time of the ICR
mission, 110 million individuals are listed in the pension insurance register, and an information portal was
set up on the Internet to calculate labor pension amounts.

A temporary methodology was developed to assess average monthly wages per quarter to calculate state
pensions in accordance with wage increases using a pensioner's individual coefficient. MLSD and
Goskomstat used this methodology for their calculations of average monthly wages to calculate state



                                                    - 6 -

pensions.

While the Government did not select a single actuarial agency as a basic actuarial agency for pension
reform as was initially envisioned, nevertheless SPIL provided support to various agencies including
MEDT, MLSD, and PFR on pension reform modeling activities and consequently this objective was also
met.

With the assistance of SPIL, the review of the costs and benefits of using the post office to deliver pensions
was carried out and an overstatement of the effective tariff of up to 2 percent was discovered. The rate of
1.5 percent was found to be reasonable and necessary to ensure at least 10 percent profitability of post
offices with respect to pension and benefit delivery. As a result, a 1.5 percent delivery expenditure rate out
of total pensions and benefits was approved starting from 1999 with significant savings to the Pension
Fund.

A public information program was launched regarding pension reform. During the public information
program (June-December 2003), a telephone "hot line" on pension reform issues was arranged for the
general public, and several brochures were published.

Component 2: SOCIAL ASSISTANCE / SOCIAL PROTECTION - US$ 6.5 million

The outcome of this Component is assessed as satisfactory. The objective was to support development of a
well-administered and targeted, financially viable social assistance system. This involved: (i)
implementation of social assistance pilot programs in three regions; (ii) information sharing of targeting
programs and administrative practices; (iii) data collection and analysis of poverty and the incidence of
social expenditures; (iv) improvement of financial management of the social insurance fund; (v)
strengthening of social insurance programs related to disability and occupational disease, including the
provision of support to the reform of the SMSES (the State Medical and Social Examination Service).

Means Testing Methodologies--Under this subcomponent, in 1997-1998 new pilot methodologies of
means-testing extreme poverty benefits were implemented in three pilot regions: Komi Republic, Voronezh
and Volgograd oblasts, to fulfill SPAL conditionality. These methodologies were designed to ensure
centralization of benefit administration work and to avoid duplication. A comparative evaluation of these
methodologies was made, and recommendations developed for regional social protection agencies regarding
the use of means-testing methods in targeted social assistance schemes. Following this work under SPIL,
two Federal Laws on State Social Assistance and on qualification for the poverty benefit were adopted (see
Section 10 for greater detail).

Based on a comprehensive review of comparative assessments of means-testing methods and the results of
pilots, the Government made recommendations on targeted social assistance programs to regional
administrations. The decision on whether social assistance benefits were to be provided, to whom they
would be provided and the level of payments was all left to the discretion of regional administrations, which
also financed such benefits. Consequently, improvements in targeting have not been implemented as
broadly as was envisioned. Overall, the results of transforming social assistance programs to be more
poverty-focused was limited.

An information-analytical system, "Targeted Social Assistance," designed under the Project, was launched
on the Internet. A software package was developed which allows the user to conduct a systematic analysis
of existing social privileges, payments, benefits and subsidies at the federal, regional and local level, thus
allowing adjustments in the system of social safety nets, and control the costs.


                                                    - 7 -

Training and dissemination of materials developed under this component was extensive. Over 700
specialists from federal ministries and agencies involved in the Project as well as employees of territorial
labor, employment and social assistance offices were trained in various aspects of social policy during
seminars and study tours arranged throughout the Project. Four collected editions of materials on targeted
social assistance, legislation on minimum subsistence levels, types of benefits and compensation, and
categories of recipients were published. The collected editions were sent to regional administrative offices
as well as territorial labor, employment and social assistance offices.

Household Surveys -- One of the outstanding achievements of this component was the development,
piloting and implementation of the National Survey of Household Welfare and Program Participation
(NOBUS), with two surveys carried out. The main round of the survey was carried out in 87 subjects of
the Russian Federation in 2003; the sample included 45,000 households. For 46 regions the survey was
representative on a regional basis plus this survey was representative also on a federal basis.

This was the first household survey in modern Russia in which the data were accessible to those outside the
statistical agency, and the first survey which provides data not only on cash transfers but on the social
privileges and all disposable resources, including non-cash resources of households as well. This
information is now being used to determine the actual poverty level and makes it possible to measure much
more accurately the efficiency of social protection activities and develop policy to reform the social
protection sector in the future. The Bank poverty team has reviewed the work on NOBUS and found it to
be of exceptionally high quality.

For the first time, an anthropometric, medical, social and economic survey of families in 5 regions of the
RF was conducted with the help of Goskomstat territorial offices. Recommendations regarding delivery of
targeted food support to the needy, and methodological guidelines on a subsistence minimum food basket
for different Russian regions were developed. The outputs of the survey were published in 2002.

SPIL funded the financial review of State Insurance Fund (SIF) operations in 1998. Recommendations
were developed to improve SIF financial management, internal audit, and staff training---all of which have
been accepted and are being utilized by SIF.

Substantial work was undertaken to review and improve business practices and operations of the State
Medical and Social Examination Service (SMSES) including development and testing of software to
automate SMSES operations in two regions: Krasnodar krai and Vladimir oblast. A stage-by-stage plan
was designed to automate SMSES operations on a broader scale and develop an all-Russia database for
effective collection and processing of information and monitoring, evaluation and supervision of
rehabilitation programs.

The MLSD is committed to supporting the SMSES with updated modern equipment and re-training of staff
in accordance with the newly developed business practices.

Component 3: CHILD ALLOWANCES - US$ 10.6

The objective of this component was to support the Government's program aimed at creating a
well-administered and well-targeted child allowance system. The outcome of this Component exceeded
project objectives and is assessed as highly satisfactory.

The key outcome of this component is that payment of child allowances was transferred from enterprises to


                                                     - 8 -

local social assistance offices based on successful pilots implemented under SPIL in 6 regions (see list in
Section 10) to adopt the new model of child allowance administration. The scope of pilots was enhanced
and eventually 15 pilot regions received technical assistance, training and information technologies for this
program.

According to MLSD, this reform achieved an estimated savings of 20 percent for child allowances as a
result of 2 main efficiencies: (i) elimination of multiple payments for the same child when each parent
claimed the benefit from their employer, and (ii) creation of a process of self-selection, because only those
families that needed the benefit went to the local social protection offices to submit an application.

A Major Policy Shift--One of the SPAL conditions (which was achieved) required the Government to enact
legislation authorizing the targeting of child allowances, rather than maintaining universal coverage of all
children. The Government went further by targeting child allowances only to those families whose income
was less than 200 percent of the regional minimum subsistence level. This targeting level has since been
reduced to 100 percent of the regional minimum subsistence level.

Supported by SPIL, a major policy shift occurred with respect to entitlement criteria for child benefits.
In 1998 and 1999, legislation was enacted that stipulated specific per capita income levels as a condition of
entitlement for these benefits (see details in Section 10). The Government's economic reform program of
July 2000 made further changes to the child allowance system by moving responsibility for financing these
benefits from the regional budgets to the federal budget. This was a positive step because it ensured that
child allowances, as a federal program, will be financed from the federal budget, increasing the likelihood
of on-time payment and eliminating delays and arrears in benefit payments. Previously, while the payment
of child allowances was the responsibility of regions, the poorest regions with the highest share of needy
families with children had the highest arrears in benefit payments.

The component also involved large-scale training of managers of regional social protection agencies and
administrations in implementing the new model of child allowance payment, including procedures for
calculating the average per capita income of the family for child allowance entitlement. The transfer of
functions of child allowance entitlement and payment from the employer to state agencies reduced losses
from non-targeted use of financial resources, and ensured receipt of reliable information on distribution of
financial resources allocated for social assistance to families.

Component 4: UNEMPLOYMENT ASSISTANCE - US$ 5.3

The objective of this component was to support Government efforts to improve labor market efficiency and
provide financially viable, adequate and efficient support to the unemployed.           Given the successful
implementation of activities under this component, outcome is assessed as satisfactory.

A major focus of this component was to improve collection, re-distribution and use of resources to support
the unemployed, and therefore most conditions focused on the Employment Fund (EF) as part of the SPAL
2nd and 3rd tranches conditionality. These actions were implemented, and as of January 1, 2001 the
Employment Fund was consolidated into the Federal Budget. This was a positive step from the Bank's view
and was also consistent with IMF recommendations.

Most SPAL conditions regarding labor were focused on the EF. These actions were supported by SPIL,
and the following recommendations were developed: (i) recommendations to plan Active Labor Market
Programs in the regions of the RF; (ii) procedures for profiling the unemployed: (iii) a new concept for
occupational classification; (iv) a methodology to develop occupational standards; (v) methodology to


                                                      - 9 -

forecast labor demand.

For the first time in the history of the EF, a financial review was carried out for 1996 and 1997 aimed at
developing general guidelines for improvement of its financial operations. Following the recommendations
developed under the component, in particular, those reflecting the results of the audit of the State
Employment Fund, as of January 2001, the Employment Fund was consolidated into the federal Budget and
resources reallocated. Regulatory legal acts that govern the procedure of budgetary financing of state
employment policy were adopted.

A concept paper to reform employment legislation was developed in order to bring fundamental principles
of labor legislation into line with the actual social and economic context. MLSD used it as a basis for a
new employment law, and work under SPIL led to enactment of 4 new Federal laws (see Section 10 for
details). The amended employment law is now more stringent in terms of criteria for registration as
unemployed, or participation in active labor policies.

SPIL project financed preparation of two alternative drafts of Labor Code by different teams. The first
draft was based on the concept of improving the existing labor legislation preserving the leading role of the
state in regulating labor relations. The second draft was oriented towards achieving a maximum of
flexibility of labor relations and increasing role of contract mechanisms for their regulation, resulting in key
reforms of existing labor legislation. In December, 2001, the Duma approved the consolidated version of
the Code as a compromise between the different political views which also used other versions of a new
Labor Code that had been introduced by members of Parliament. The approval of the Code as a
framework labor law can be considered as an achievement of the project.

SPIL TA contracts provided assistance in transition to international standards in occupational
classification. In particular, a new Russian occupational classification was drafted (2001), and a
methodology to develop occupational standards was designed and tested while developing relevant
standards for jobs in various industries (2003).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Institutional Development Impact was substantial. SPIL evolved into the main tool of the Government to
implement social protection reform. The project provided critical support to implementation of the social
sector reforms supported by the SPAL, including important changes in the policy framework, financial
management of particular sectors, the regulatory system, and in the performance of the social sector
institutions themselves. After SPAL ended, SPIL provided critical support across a number of areas.
Based on financial reviews of off-budget funds (Pension Fund, Social Insurance Fund and Employment
Fund), a stage-by-stage plan to improve the accounting system in these funds was designed and
implemented, which made financial management practices and procedures of the Pension Fund more
effective and efficient.

As a result of large-scale adoption of targeted social assistance methodologies, interaction between MLSD
and regional labor, employment and social assistance offices became more effective, particularly with



                                                      - 10 -

respect to build-up, allocation and intended use of social assistance funds. Consequently, a considerable
amount of budget funds was saved through unification of means-testing procedures and procedures of
granting various social benefits. A uniform targeting mechanism of child allowances was implemented
throughout the country. Transfer to the new system of financing child allowances from the federal budget
and their payment through social protection offices made use of budget funds more efficient (duplicative
allowance payments were reduced or abolished) and reduced arrears in child allowances.

Finally, Russia's labor law had lagged far behind economic reality since 1991. Adoption of a new Labor
Code permitted elimination of the existing gap between the emerging legal framework governing enterprise
activities in a market economy and the old norms of labor law, that had largely been preserved since the
Soviet period.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
None.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

1998 Financial Crisis --The most important factor affecting SPIL progress was the 1998 August financial
crisis, which slowed project progress and required changes in some provisions of the Government program
of social reforms, including the Program of Pension Reform in the RF and a Plan for drafting laws,
regulations, and institutional arrangements for systemic pension reform in the RF for 1999-2000 which was
only approved in September 1999.

Moreover, the 1998 crisis caused fiscal difficulties in Russian regions participating in the pilots under the
Child Allowance Component and delays in co-financing custom duties on equipment deliveries in due time.
Taking into account the situation and objective nature of the problems faced by the regions, the Russian
party took measures which resulted in finding the ways to assist the regions in resolving the problem of
customs duties, which allowed to go on with project implementation in the pilot regions.

Turnover of Policy Officials -- SPIL was designed in 1997, and frequent changes in Government and high
turnover among officials of ministries involved affected the project. From 1997 till 2003, there were six
different Russian governments, and four Ministers of Labor and Social Development, each of which had
different perspectives on social protection policy. Each change resulted in a delay. Especially starting in
2000, the components were frequently restructured and new activities added resulting from on-going social
policy changes. Those most affected were the pension reform component and the unemployment assistance
component.

Obtaining approvals from the RF government was often cumbersome. Often 10 to 12 months passed from
approval of the terms of reference till completion of the selection procedure and the assignments proposed
for implementation stopped being essential.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The Project became effective on July 1, 1998, more than 6 months after signing the Loan Agreement. These
delays were related to difficulties in the establishment of the legal structure for the project management, the
Russian Foundation for Social Reforms (RFSR) and its Directorate. The 1998 fiscal crisis led to a freeze
of the Project Special Account, which also delayed the launch of the project.




                                                     - 11 -

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project costs were estimated at US$35.95 million, of which about US$14.73 million (41 percent)
comprised foreign exchange requirements. Costs include physical and price contingencies of US$2.13
million (6 percent). The Bank loan of US$28.6 million equivalent was expected to finance approximately
80 percent of total costs. The Government contribution was estimated at US$ 7.35 million, or 20 percent of
total project costs to finance part of rent costs for the Foundation, salaries of counterpart staff in the pilot
areas, taxes and duties.

In the course of the project, there was a misprocurement amounting to US$608,815. This resulted in the
loan amount being reduced from US$ 28,600,000 to US$27,991,185.

Amendments to the Loan Agreement resulted in the reallocation of loan proceeds (details provided in
section 10). At the end of the project, the actual Bank financing equaled US$25.7 million, or 95 percent of
the amount at appraisal, and the Government contribution US$4.0 million, or 56 percent of funds initially
anticipated for the project implementation. (Annex 2).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability is rated as likely. As noted above, the project was specifically designed to put into place
institutional mechanisms and capacity for implementation of the social sector reforms (in large measure
complementing SPAL). These mechanisms remain in place and are functioning as intended, funded from
budgetary sources.     SPIL financed technical assistance to support implementation of social reforms
including design of the required legal and the regulatory framework, and providing support for filling
critical skills gaps and capacity building of local institutions in key areas of the social reform. The legal
and regulatory framework remains in place, with no backtracking.

As noted earlier, while pension arrears were evident following the 1998 crisis, they were eliminated and PF
payments are currently in balance with PF revenues.

The reforms achieved with the help of SPIL have been embodied in regulatory and legal acts of the Russian
Federation as well as in methodological, analytical and managerial processes that continue to be used by
federal and regional executive government bodies. The Borrower Contribution notes a number of examples
of these, including:

·        Structural changes that have enhanced the administrative efficiency of the Child Allowance
         program
·        Computers and improved procedures for the administration of the Social Assistance program
·        Actuarial researches facilitated introduction of the institute of actuaries and implementation of
         actuarial calculations to justify PF payments and to ensure reliability and financial viability of
         non-government pension funds.

Officials interviewed in the preparation of this ICR stated that they are pleased with the results achieved
under SPIL and will maintain the reforms and revised systems developed under the project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Most SPIL activities listed in Section 4 have already been integrated into the regular operation of the
MLSD, PF, SIF, SMSES, regional social protection offices and other government agencies, which has
minimized the need for special transition arrangements.



                                                     - 12 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

As noted earlier, Quality at Entry is considered satisfactory. There was considerable involvement of
stakeholders in project preparation, and under a PPF the Bank provided for early mobilization of
procurement consultants, as well as setting mechanisms in place for early establishment of mechanisms for
record keeping, operation of the special account, and preparation of procurement documentation for key
activities to be implemented during the first year of project implementation. The SPIL design proved to be
highly appropriate to the support of sectoral reforms both under the SPAL as well as after the closing of
that adjustment loan.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision of the Project was extensive, with a total of 16 supervision missions mounted. However,
supervision of project activities was uneven, partially caused by frequent changes in project management:
during the project, SPIL had 5 Task Managers, which contributed to delays. Component specialists were
also replaced during the middle of the project, which necessitated a "learning period" and contributed
further to delays. The new team had different views of the project, and it took time to iron out these
differences with the GoR. However, in the last two years of implementation, supervision was intensified,
and project management was substantially improved, which contributed to rapid completion of nearly all
project goals.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Considering the intensive efforts made by the Bank in accelerating progress during the last 2 years of the
project, and the impressive results achieved in terms of sectoral reform, overall Bank performance is
assessed as satisfactory. The project provided important assistance to the country in establishing new
institutional framework for the implementation of social reforms.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower participated actively in project preparation, some part of which was in parallel with
preparation of the SPAL.        During preparation of the SPIL, significant attention was paid to the
development of the policies and conditions by senior level officials. They were actively engaged in the
process, and worked extensively with the Bank on policy development. The government involved experts
from cognizant agencies as well as from policy institutes.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is considered unsatisfactory. While SPIL made a great deal of
progress, implementation progress was uneven, and much of the envisioned activity took place much later
than planned. At the start, there was a delay of around six months in the final approval of the Loan, due to
delays in Project approval by various Government agencies. Unfortunately, such delays, reflecting a
cumbersome process of project approval, were common in the RF.

Early in the project, there were also problems of coordination and prioritization of activities by the
Government given the number of agencies involved in the project. Especially problematic were the speed
with which documents were processed; the quality of procurement evaluations and the relevance of
experience of individual evaluators to a particular task; and the relevance and timeliness of advice provided
by the RFSR to line Ministries regarding procurement.



                                                     - 13 -

It should also be noted that in the course of the project, there was a misprocurement amounting to
US$608,815. This resulted in the loan amount being reduced from US$ 28,600,000 to US$27,991,185.

By the end of 2001 (the initial closing date of the Project), just 45 percent of the Loan was committed. Part
of the disbursement lag was due to the lower cost of goods and services procured than forecasted, while
part was also due to the 1998 crisis. (The savings were used to finance supplementary activities of the
SPIL.) However, the project was extended, and by the end of the SPIL implementation in December 2003,
almost 95 percent of the original Loan funds were disbursed.

From the start of the project until 2001, there was uncertainty among participating RF agencies regarding
the objectives of certain activities, specifically about the direction of reform the Government wished to
pursue. The project was not implemented satisfactorily during 2000, for the most part due to the political
uncertainty extant since the fall of 1999. However, following the resignation of President Yeltsin (in
December, 1999), with the accelerated elections and the Government's new economic reform program, the
situation changed drastically. At the same time, following the release of the SPAL third tranche in August
2000, SPIL became the main vehicle for policy discussions on social protection reform with the
Government and the main tool to help the Government implement the social protection portion of the new
program. Borrower Performance is rated unsatisfactory over the entire period of implementation, however,
performance improved markedly during the last 2 years of implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Directorate of the Russian Foundation for Social Reforms (RFSR) performed day-to-day
implementation of SPIL. The performance of RFSR was uneven. There were significant delays in starting
work on some components, especially pensions. In 2002, project management was rated as unsatisfactory,
and project management was replaced. After that, project progress improved substantially: the Bank started
to receive short summary reports by consultants, and the RFSR streamlined its administrative procedures.
On October 31, 2002, the Sub-committee on External Borrowing of the State Duma decided against SPIL
extension. Although the Budget Committee of the Duma decided to extend the project, it confirms that
many in the government viewed project progress as unsatisfactory. Some implementation delays were due
to factors within the implementing agencies. The launch of the NOBUS survey was delayed due to the fact
that Goskomstat was involved in preparation and conducting of population census.

In addition, there was some turnover of key RFSR staff in the course of project implementation when in
2000 three component coordinators were changed, partially due to the fact that the salaries of the RFSR
staff were cut dramatically in late 1999 at the request of the Minister of Labor (this was an action the Bank
had counseled against). Given the fact that other foundations had higher remuneration levels of staff, with
the salary reductions it became increasingly difficult to hold onto well trained and qualified staff in RFSR.
Over the entire period of the project, implementing agency performance is considered as overall
unsatisfactory, however it did improve markedly in the last year of implementation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Considering the factors discussed above, overall Borrower performance is assessed as unsatisfactory.




                                                    - 14 -

8. Lessons Learned

In an uncertain political environment, flexibility in project design is essential--SPIL had a sufficient
degree of flexibility to provide adequate reform-oriented technical assistance to the government in an
uncertain environment.      Project implementation involved a variety of stakeholders at the federal and
regional levels. The relevant Ministries, Goskomstat, Pension Fund, State Duma and regional social
authorities actively participated in decision-making (as to SPIL activities in the next period) and evaluation
of work to date. Multiyear TA projects such as SPIL should be flexible so they can benefit from
Government learning.

A large number of small TA projects made project management difficult--SPIL had many small-scale
TA contracts which made project management more complicated. Focusing TA on larger and more
fundamental tasks would probably have had better outcomes.

Involvement of regional governments contributed to a positive outcome--The regional governments in
which SPIL pilot projects were implemented were actively involved in preparation of assignments which
contributed to the success of project activities, most notably on child allowances program.

A more active dissemination strategy would have yielded better results--Although the project involved
numerous activities to disseminate materials through seminars and publications, more could have been be
done to provide access to the experience obtained, for example, putting materials on internet. The number
of copies of publications were not sufficient to benefit the key social protection staff in all 89 RF regions.

SPIL would have benefited from a greater effort to explain its role in the reform process--SPIL itself
would have benefited from a PR campaign to explain to a wide audience, especially the State Duma and
other state agencies, the purpose and objectives of the project. This could have greatly facilitated many
aspects of processing the loan.

Outsourcing of procurement proved effective--Given the high volume of procurement for the project,
the contract with the external procurement firm was of great assistance. Outsourcing of some procurement
work in such a complex project helps assure that procurement moves smoothly.




                                                     - 15 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                  Ministry for Labor and Social Development of the Russian Federation

                                                   April 2004


ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN

1.      Original Objectives

In accordance with the Loan Agreement, development objectives were as follows:
(1)     to support the implementation of a number of specific measures to be undertaken by the Borrower
under the Program to develop an effective system of income support and poverty relief suitable for the
needs of a market economy; and
(2)     to fill critical skill gaps and build capacity in agencies and institutions of the Borrower in a number
of key areas essential to the effective achievement of the objectives of the Program.

2.      Revised Objectives

As a result of adoption by the RF Government of the 2000-2001 Economic Modernization Plan, the overall
development objectives of the Project were revised and specified as follows:
(1)     to support the development and implementation of the Government's social protection reform
agenda; and
(2)     to gradually develop an effective system of income support and poverty relief consistent with the
needs of a market economy.

Revision of original component-specific development objectives did not entail any significant change in the
main implementation focus of the Project.

3.      Original Components and their Development Objectives

Originally the Project consisted of the following major components:

(A)     Pension Reform: Provision of consultant services and training for:
        (1)       assisting the Pension Fund in managing individual worker accounts and in establishing a
                  regulatory framework for governing such accounts;
        (2)       auditing of the Pension Fund accounts;
        (3)       implementing an action plan for improving collections of pension contributions;
        (4)       preparing a detailed concept and draft legislation on systemic pension reform involving
                  introduction of a three-tier pension system;
        (5)       designing and implementation of a public information and communications campaign;
        (6)       implementing systemic pension reform; and
        (7)       organizing actuarial activities.

(B)     Social Assistance: Provision of consultant services and training to:
        (1)       design and implement programs in the Komi Republic, and in the Volgograd and Voronezh



                                                       - 16 -

                 oblasts, to pilot various methods of means-testing social assistance benefits;
        (2)      conduct a national evaluation and dissemination of the results of the pilot programs;
        (3)      review social benefits, subsidies, compensation and payments; and
        (4)      review the system of local delivery of social services.

(C)     Social Protection: Provision of consultant services, training and computer equipment to MLSD and
        Goskomstat to:
        (1)      put in place a monitoring system of regional and national social transfers;
        (2)      analyze data and monitor poverty and nutrition levels;
        (3)      conduct a national survey of household welfare and program participation; and
        (4)      review governmental and non-governmental programs directed at child protection,
                 handicapped and homeless.

(D)     Child Allowances: Provision of consultant services, training and computer equipment for:
        (1)      design and implementation of pilot programs in Belgorod, Kaluga, Moscow, Novgorod,
                 Volgograd oblasts and the Udmurtia Republic involving the transfer of administration of
                 child allowance payments from enterprises to local social assistance offices; and
        (2)      dissemination of the results of the pilot programs.

(E)     Unemployment Assistance: Provision of consultant services and training for:
        (1)      design and implementation of a system to monitor unemployment and changes in type,
                 duration and other characteristics of unemployment as new laws or measures are
                 introduced;
        (2)      assistance in legislative drafting work relating to amendments to Federal Law "On
                 Employment of Population in the Russian Federation";
        (3)      audit of the Employment Fund;
        (4)      assistance in legislative drafting work relating to the Labor Code;
        (5)      review of programs designed to support the long-term unemployed; and
        (6)      evaluation of experiences with public works programs.

(F)      Management of the Project: The Project Implementation Unit was the Russian Foundation for
Social Reforms (RFSR) responsible for management and coordination of the Project.

4.      Revised Components and their Development Objectives

Project components were subject to no revision. Following the Mid-Term Review, by agreement between
the World Bank and the Borrower, original component-specific development objectives were revised to
match the set of activities implemented under the Project with the 2000-2002 RF Government Program of
Social Protection Activities.

(A)     Pension Reform: Support the development of a fiscally affordable pension system through:
        (i)      design and development of a new pension system;
        (ii)     improvement of actuarial capacity; and
        (iii)    communication of reforms to the public to elicit public opinion and gather public support.

(B/C) Social Assistance / Social Protection: Support the development of a well-administered and targeted,
financially viable social assistance system through:
        (i)      implementation of pilot programs to inform policy;
        (ii)     information sharing of targeting programs and administrative practices;


                                                     - 17 -

         (iii)    data collection and analysis of poverty and the incidence of social expenditures;
         (iv)     improvement of financial management of the Social Insurance Fund; and
         (v)      strengthening of social insurance programs related to disability and occupational disease.

(D)      Child Allowances: Support the Government's program aimed at the creation of a well-administered
and well-targeted child allowance system by:
         (i)      transferring child allowances from enterprises to local social protection offices;
         (ii)     improving child allowances administration;
         (iii)    disseminating administration experience across regions; and
         (iv)     training of social protection staff in administering child benefits; and
         (v)      assisting the Government in evaluating and further developing various forms of support to
         families with children.

(E)      Unemployment Assistance: Support the Government's efforts to improve labor market efficiency
and provide financially viable, adequate and efficient        support to the unemployed through:
         (i)      improving labor and employment legislation;
         (ii)     planning, design and evaluation of Active Labor Market Programs;
         (iii)    improving management of the financing of the unemployment; and
         (iv)     transition to international standards in occupational classification.

In the course of project implementation, it was agreed between the Bank and the Borrower that the
following amendments should be introduced in the Loan Agreement (Amendments to the Loan Agreement,
Loan 4234-RU of January 31, 2001 and March 28, 2003).
·        the closing date of the SPIL Project was extended twice: till December 31, 2002 and till December
         31, 2003;
·        due to increased amount of equipment to be procured and enhanced scope of consultancies, loan
         proceeds were reallocated as follows:


Category                               Loan Agreement      Amendments as of 31.01.2001 Amendments as of 28.03.2003

Category (1) Goods                     US$ 6,400,000       US$ 9,650,000                  US$ 8,450,000

Category (2) Consultants' Services     US$ 8,900,000       US$ 9,200,000                 US$ 10,980,000

Category (3) Training                  US$ 2,800,000       US$ 1,750,000                  US$ 1,750,000

Category (4) Publishing Services       US$ 5000,000        US$ 3000,000                   US$ 280,000

Category (5a) Incremental              US$ 3,000,000       US$ 3,650,000                  US$ 3,650,000
Operating Costs for RFSR

Category (5b) Incremental              US$ 2,400,000       US$ 2,400,000                  US$ 1,500,000
Operating Costs for Goskomstat

Category (6) Refunding of Project      US$ 2,000,000       US$ 1,176,630                  US$ 1,176,630
Preparation Advance

Category (7) Unallocated               2,600,000           473,370                        204,554.80

TOTAL                                  28,600,000          28,600,00                      27,991,184.80 *

* Note: The Loan amount was reduced from US$ 28,600,000 to US$ 27,991,184.80 on September 26, 2002
due to a decision by the Bank that misprocurement occurred under the Project; the amount of $608,815.20
was cancelled from the Loan.




                                                       - 18 -

·        the original action plans for project components were amended as follows:
      -    action plan for the Pension Reform Component was supplemented by activity: (i) providing
           assistance to the Pension Fund in improving collections of pension contributions;
      -    action plan for the Social Assistance Component was supplemented by activities: (i) survey the
           financial condition of the Federal Fund for Health Insurance; (ii) assist MLSD in improving
           efficiency of the operation of the State Medical and Social Examination Service (SMSES); and
           (iii) assist the Social Insurance Fund in connection with introduction of mandatory social
           insurance against occupational injury and disease.
      -    action plan for the Child Allowances Component was supplemented by activity: (i) financial
           analysis of the Social Insurance Fund.

A.       ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS

Implementation of key SPIL project activities was conditionality for extending to the Russian Federation of
the Bank Social Protection Adjustment Loan (SPAL, $800 million). Apart from that, other consulting and
procurement services were provided for the benefit of territorial SA offices. Below are the main
implementation outcomes by project components.


1.       Pension Reform


Legal framework was provided for systemic pension reform and initial steps were made to proceed with its
implementation. Specifically:
1.1      Regulatory and technical framework for the institutional structure that is to manage individual
(personalized) pension accounts was designed. These accounts register information on labor and insurance
record and amounts in insurance and funded accounts of every insured person. The insured receive their
account statements on an annual basis.

1.2      An information program was implemented to inform the public about pension reform.

1.3      Results of the Pension Fund (PF) audit served as a basis for the establishment of the Unified
Pension Service of Russia and transformation of PF from a finance and credit institution to a full-fledged
insurance company that accumulates financial resources and administers pension payments.

1.4      Actuarial researches facilitated introduction of the institute of actuaries and implementation of
actuarial calculations to justify PF payments and to ensure reliability and financial viability of
non-government pension funds.

1.5      Introduction of the funded tier of labor pension initiated establishment and development of
institutes to invest long term mandatory pension savings and establishment of investment infrastructure
whose active participants are insured people, PF, management companies and NGPFs.


The amount of US$3,87 million was disbursed under the Pension Reform Component. Component
implementation was rated as satisfactory given that all development objectives were achieved and most of
the originally scheduled activities carried out.

2.       Social Assistance

2.1      Fundamentally new methodologies of means-testing extreme poverty benefits were piloted in three


                                                    - 19 -

regions of Russia: Komi Republic, Voronezh and Volgograd oblasts. Outcomes of the above activities were
considered while designing SA programs in most Russian regions.

2.2      Regional legislation that currently regulates SA delivery to the poor at the federal, regional and
local levels was reviewed. An information system was implemented and adopted by regional SA offices.

2.3      Effectiveness of social services provided by social service institutions of MLSD was assessed;
procedures to finance social institutions and recommendations for regional administrations on budgetary
financing of social sector institutions were developed.

2.4      Operations of the State Medical and Social Examination Service were reviewed; an automated
decision-making system was designed; software application for SMSES local and regional bureaus was
developed and piloted in Vladimir oblast and Krasnodar krai.

2.5      Regulatory and methodological framework was developed to proceed with improvement of the
system of mandatory social insurance against occupational injury and disease.


The amount of US$2,77 million was disbursed under the Social Assistance Component.

Component implementation was rated as satisfactory though some development objectives were not
implemented in full (computer equipment was not supplied to SMSES bureaus of the pilot regions and the
automated system was not completed before project termination).

3.       Social Protection

3.1      A monitoring system of regional and federal social transfers was designed and adopted by MLSD.

3.2      For the first time in the national practice, an anthropometric medical and socioeconomic survey of
households was performed in five regions of Russia. Recommendations were developed on delivery of
targeted food support to the needy as well as methodological guidelines on subsistence minimum food
basket for different Russian regions.

3.3      A national survey of household welfare and program participation (NOBUS) was implemented.
The sample covered 87 regions and included 180,000 households for the zero round and 45,00 households
for the main round (representative sampling on the regional basis for 46 regions). Data that makes it
possible to measure both monetary and non-monetary household welfare indicators and the effectiveness of
social transfers was obtained and made public.


The total amount of US$2,79 million was disbursed under the Social Protection Component.

Component implementation was rated as satisfactory given that all development objectives were achieved.

4.       Child Allowances

The SPIL Project accelerated institutional reform in the area of CA administration and payment.

4.1      The responsibility of administering child allowances was transferred from enterprises (employers)
to local SA offices across the country:
·        The new model of CA payments was piloted in Belgorod, Kaluga, Moscow, Novgorod, Volgograd
         oblasts and Udmurtia Republic. Pilot programs involved (i) testing new methods of administering
         CA payments and (ii) supplying SA offices with computer and copying equipment. The number of



                                                      - 20 -

         participating regions selected as recipients of computer and office equipment was increased from 6
         to 15.
·        A guideline package on various aspects of work that CA units of regional social SA do to
         administer CA payments was designed and adopted.
·        Exchange of experience among Russian regions was arranged through regular all-Russian and
         inter-regional seminars to share best practice in CA administration and other forms of social
         support to families with children.

4.2      With a view to make management of the mandatory social insurance system more effective,
financial review of SIF operations in FY1998 was performed. The review helped improve SIF
performance, including areas such as financial management, internal auditing, staff training and etc.

4.3      Studies on the development of state policy in social support of the family and children and of social
services provided to the family and children with the involvement of the non-government sector were
carried out; their findings were published.

The amount of US$9,12 million was disbursed under the Child Allowances Component. Component
implementation was rated as satisfactory given that all development objectives were achieved.

5.       Unemployment Assistance

5.1      Labor and employment legislation was reformed to bring it in line with new economic and social
realities:
·        Two alternative draft labor laws were developed and used by MLSD as a basis for new draft
         Labor Code that was approved by the Government in December 1998.
·        New employment law that stipulates insurance-based principles of the state labor market policy
         was drafted.

5.2      Information campaign to inform the public on new labor relations and clarify provisions of the new
Labor Code was carried out.

5.3      Audit of the Employment Fund FY1998 operations was conducted and recommendations to
improve EF financial management procedures provided.

5.4      The procedure for financing state employment policy was changed. The function of funding state
employment policy was transferred from EF to the Federal Treasury. Refining on this procedure followed.

5.5      A set of activities was implemented to make labor market policy mechanisms more effective,
including:
·        a comprehensive review of the existing unemployment and labor market monitoring system in
         Russia;
·        improvement of ALM policy mechanisms through better planning, design and evaluation of ALM
         programs;
·        design of a procedure to profile the unemployed in the system of the state employment service;
·        development of a methodology to forecast labor demand with a view to facilitate balanced
         development of the labor and training services markets.

5.6      Initial steps were made in transition to international standards in occupational classification:
·        a new Russian occupational classifier was drafted;
·        based on the new Russian occupational classifier, a methodology to develop occupational standards
         was designed and tested while developing occupational standards for jobs in various industries.




                                                      - 21 -

The amount of $2,68 million was disbursed under the Unemployment Assistance Component.

Component implementation was rated as satisfactory given that all development objectives were achieved.

During the life of the Project, large-scale dissemination of information and experience on various aspects of
social policy including pension delivery, state social assistance, social insurance, social support to the
family and children, and state labor market policy was arranged.

·       65 conferences and seminars that involved 5500 managers and specialists from ministries and
agencies as well as regional labor and SA offices were implemented.
·       Training materials, reference books and guides on application of new procedures were published
and distributed.

6.      Project Management ­ Russian Foundation for Social Reforms

Given the complex nature of the Project, large scope of activities and involvement of several major
government agencies, management and coordination of the Project was performed by the Russian
Foundation for Social Reforms.

PIU performance was rated as satisfactory throughout the life of the Project. The Project was completed
successfully. Reports resulting from five audits of PIU operations did not contain any critical comments.
Successful implementation of all component-specific development objectives grew out of effective PIU
performance.
The amount of $4,84 million was disbursed under the Project Management Component.

B.      MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME

The project was implemented in the context of on-going economic and administrative transformations in
Russia. In the 1990-s, the social protection system developed largely as a response system to overcome
emerging and aggravating social and economic problems. Factors that were adverse to project
implementation include the following:

-    frequent changes in the Government as well as in MLSD management;
-    fiscal instability in Russian regions participating in the Project;
-    frequent restructuring of project components peculiar to "social" projects and resulting from on-going
     change in macroeconomic environment in the country.

Adverse macroeconomic and financial conditions in the country that became even worse after the collapse
of August 17, 1998, could not but affect the social sector, which resulted in:

-    sharp increase in the number of people living below subsistence level;
-    greater differentiation in material wealth and drop of purchasing capacity;
-    increased arrears of wages, pensions, child allowances, unemployment benefits and money
     allowances;
-    reduced financing of the social sector from the federal and regional budgets followed by deterioration
     of the work of social sector institutions;
-    higher unemployment and social tension in society.

As a result, many activities envisaged in the SPIL Loan Agreement became impossible to implement or
stopped being topical at least in the medium-term perspective (e.g. introduction of the funded tier to the
pension system, etc). At the same time, new active measures adequate to the situation in the social sector


                                                      - 22 -

became urgent. The RF Government approved an action package to stabilize social and economic situation
in the country, which to a large extent conditioned changes in the SPIL Work Program and Implementation
Schedule.

The PIU managed to promptly solve issues emerging in project implementation and was largely assisted in
it by MLSD, MOF, MEDT, Goskomstat, SIF, and the World Bank.

1.      Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency

General fiscal situation: The major factor that adversely affected project progress was the economic
collapse of August 17, 1998. It brought about the bankruptcy of the commercial ONEKSIM Bank where
the Special Account for SPIL was held. As a result, the amount of $6,860.39 was "frozen" in the Special
Account. This could not but delay project implementation. The banking crisis caused the Project to re-open
its Special Account in a bank pre-approved by MOF. Sorting out all issues took several months. Funding
was resumed after MOF provided guarantee to the World Bank that it would transfer loan proceeds
"frozen" in the previous Special Account into the Project's new Special Account.

Regional issues: The 1998 crisis also caused fiscal difficulties in Russian regions participating in the pilots
under the Child Allowances Component. The regions' inability to co-finance customs duties on equipment
deliveries in due time put in jeopardy their participation in the Project. Since co-financing by the regions of
equipment deliveries was stipulated by the Loan Agreement, retaining the number of pilot regions set forth
in the Agreement depended on the regions' ability to fulfill their obligations in full. In March 1999 after a
series of consultations with all the parties concerned, the Government took a decision to grant
special-purpose loans from the federal budget to the participating regions to cover their customs duties.
Equipment suppliers provided the regions with additional financial and administrative assistance in customs
clearance. The above reasons caused delay in project progress, however promptly taken steps helped retain
the number of project participants and avoid disruption of its implementation schedule.

Sectoral issues: Deterioration of Russian economic environment after the 1998 crisis made it necessary to
amend some provisions of the Pension Reform Program approved in May 1998.                    As a result, the
1999-2000 Action Plan on drafting regulations and arranging administrative activities to reform the
pension system was approved only in September 1999. These amendments and delays necessitated changes
in the Pension Reform Component implementation schedule.

2.      Factors generally subject to government control

Sectoral issues: One of the issues peculiar to the Project was constant change in project work programs.
None of the components could avoid restructuring. Those most affected were the Pension Reform
Component and the Unemployment Assistance Component. As a result of Mid-Term Review of the Project,
the scope of consultancies under the Project was considerably enhanced and amendments were introduced
to the original procurement plan. The amount of services procured from individual consultants increased
and RFSR was authorized to select consulting firms based on their qualification.

Administrative issues: The multi-step procedure of getting documents approved by Russian participants of
the Project was still another constraint. As a result, 10 to 12 moths often passed from approval of the terms
of reference till completion of the selection procedure and the assignments proposed for implementation
stopped being essential.

NOBUS: Special mention should be made of reasons for which the original NOBUS implementation time


                                                      - 23 -

frame changed considerably. The key reasons are as follows:
-     Goskomstat changed its name twice within a year: to the Russian Statistical Agency (July 15, 1999)
      and back to the State Committee of the Russian Federation for Statistics (March 24, 2000). This
      caused substantial delay in the approval by MOF of the Agreement on the procedure to finance the
      NOBUS Survey.
-     Personnel of Goskomstat territorial offices that were supposed to implement the survey were also
      engaged in conducting the population census.
-     The procedure to finance territorial Goskomstat offices involved in NOBUS implementation was
      changed to ensure compliance with Russian tax legislation and the Bank's requirements. Hence, the
      zero round of NOBUS was carried out two years after its scheduled time.
-     Changes in the Budget Code of the Russian Federation, specifically, transfer of accounts of
      government organizations to the Treasury, required subsequent changes in the procedure to prepare
      and implement the main round of the survey and its approval by MOF.

The above factors hindered preparation and implementation of the survey not only at the federal level ­
Goskomstat headquarters ­ but also at the regional level.

Ministry management: Frequent changes in the Government as well as ministry management did not
contribute to effective implementation of the Project either. During the life of the SPIL Project from 1997
till 2003, there were four ministers of labor and social development. Each change required time for new
managers to become familiar with the Project and resulted in 4 to 6 month halt.

3.       Factors generally subject to implementing agency control

These include efficiency and effectiveness of project administration, specifically financial management, PIU
personnel, control over the intended use of funds, project implementation activities, monitoring and
appraisal of project implementation progress.

RFSR performance as implementing agency was competent and effective. It worked in close coordination
with MLSD, MOF, Pension Fund, Goskomstat, SIF, and administrations of Russian regions involved in
pilot programs.

On the whole, SPIL project management can be rated as satisfactory and ensuring achievement of project
objectives and tasks. At the same time, the multi-component nature of the Project and a large number of its
participants made it difficult for RFSR to ensure full and timely compliance with all established procedures
and follow the required approval procedures.

C.       SUSTAINABILITY

Implementation of the SPIL Project facilitated systemic reform in the social sector of Russia:
·     Outputs of consulting services were embodied in regulatory and legal acts of the Russian Federation
      as well as in methodological, analytical and other materials that are used by federal executive
      government bodies.
·     Equipment ­ both computer and office equipment ­ procured for territorial social assistance offices
      increased their capacity, facilitated greater effectiveness, quality and responsiveness of their work, and
      created conditions for tighter control over budgetary spending.
·     Training personnel of federal and territorial SA offices increased their competence, made them
      familiar with new methodologies and social technologies and thus improved the quality of social work
      with population.


                                                       - 24 -

·     Publications made it possible to disseminate information that summed up advanced social assistance
      experience, new social technologies and etc across the country.

The following steps taken by the Government give grounds to consider the Project sustainable.

Under the Pension Reform Component:

As part of concerted effort to reform social policy and social schemes, a comprehensive program to review
and reform the national pension system was carried out and on May 7, 1998 the Government approved the
Pension Reform Program.

The following Federal Laws were passed:
·       "On State Pension Provision in the Russian Federation" (FL No 166 of December 15, 2001),
·       "On Mandatory Pension Insurance in the Russian Federation" (FL No167 of December 15, 2001),
·       "On Labor Pensions in the Russian Federation" (FL No 173 of December 17, 2001),
·       "On Investing Funds to Finance the Funded Tier of Labor Pension in the Russian Federation" (FL
No 111 of July 24, 2002),
·       "On Amendments to Federal Law "On Individual (Personified) Worker Accounts in the System of
State Pension Insurance" (FL No 198 of December 31, 2002).
-       Federal Law "On Mandatory Occupational Pension Systems" passed the first reading in the State
Duma in 2002.
-       Federal Law "On Non-Government Pension Funds" was amended in January 2003.

Regulatory legal documents on the implementation of legislation that governs the funded tier of labor
pensions in the system of mandatory pension insurance were adopted in 2003.

It should be noted that the above institutional developments resulted not only from SPIL project
implementation but also from systemic pension reform implemented in Russia.

Under the Social Assistance/Social Protection Components:

Based on the outputs of pilot social assistance projects in three Russian regions, MLSD issued
methodological recommendations for the RF subjects regarding the use of targeted forms of social payouts
to low-income people.

Two legal acts were adopted to introduce means-testing principle based on actual income:
·       Federal Law No 44 of April 5, 2003 "On Procedure to Assess Incomes and Calculate Average Per
Capita Income of a Family or Income of a Solitary Resident to Recognize them as Poor and Provide Them
with State Social Assistance";
·       Decree of Russian Government No 512 of August 20, 2003 "On the List of Income Types to be
Considered in Calculation of Average Per Capita Income of a Family or Income of a Solitary Resident to
Provide Them with State Social Assistance".

A monitoring system of regional and federal social transfers was put in place at MLSD; recommendations
were adopted to improve budgetary process and budgetary classification with a view to make inter-budget
distribution of social transfers more effective. Interaction between MLSD and territorial SA offices
particularly with respect to budgetary planning and forecasting social expenditures is built on reporting
forms designed under SPIL.




                                                    - 25 -

Under the Child Allowances Component:

-         With a view to adopt the new model of administering CA payments, RF Government issued Decree
No 1089 of August 28, 1997 "On Amendments to the Procedure of Administering Monthly Child
Allowance Payments". New statistical reporting requirements became effective from January 1, 1998.
-         Federal Law No 66 of May 30, 2001 "On Amendment to Federal Law "On State Benefits for
Citizens that Have Children", Article 16, Part 1" was passed; the law rules that child allowances are to be
paid only to low-income families with children.
-         Federal Law No 67 of May 30, 2001 "On Amendments to Federal Law "On State Benefits for
Citizens that Have Children", Article 4" was passed; the law provides for federal financing of child
allowances.
-        RF Government issued Decree No 1096 of September 29, 1999 "On Procedure to Calculate
Average Per Capita Income that Entitles a Family to Monthly Child Allowance".
-         RF Government issued Decree No 536 of July 14, 2001 "On Procedure to Allocate and Spend
Resources of the Compensation Fund in 2001 to implement Federal Laws "On Social Protection of the
Disabled in the Russian Federation" and "On State Benefits for Citizens that Have Children".

Under the Unemployment Assistance Component:

-        The Labor Code of the Russian Federation was passed (FL No 197 of December 30, 2001).
-         Federal Law No 8 of January 10, 2003 "On Amendments to Federal Law "On Employment of
Population in the Russian Federation" as well as specific legal acts on funding of activities to promote
employment were passed.

The following occupational standards were established:
    (i) Qualification Requirements for Main Positions in the Tourist Industry (Decree of MLSD No 71 of
    October 10, 2003);
    (ii) Instructor in Vocational Training (Decree of MLSD No 87 of December 22, 2003);
    (iii) Innovation Manager in Research and Production (Decree of MLSD No 34 of March 5, 2004);
    (iv) Specialist in Dry Construction (Decree of MLSD No 35 of March 5, 2004);
    (v) On-the-Job Training Manager (Decree of MLSD No 36 of March 5, 2004).

MLSD and Ministry of Education carry on developing occupational standards.

D.        ACTIVITIES OF THE BANK AND THE BORROWER

1.        World Bank Crediting

The Bank performance in designing and supervising the project can be judged as satisfactory. The Bank
was responsive to all restructuring and adjusting that on-going change in Russian economic, legal and
political environment necessitated. The decision on loan restructuring was sound and timely. It was based
on careful analysis of the current situation performed with the involvement of Bank representatives and did
not entail any significant change in the project implementation focus.

The new approval granting procedure that the Bank introduced in the middle of project implementation
period can be attributed as a negative factor. The Bank supervising team was largely expanded through
including component-specific specialists responsible for consideration of all issues under their components.
This procedure did not appear quite effective to us and often led to unreasonable delays.




                                                    - 26 -

Close supervision of project progress by the Bank team ensured conformity with the Loan Agreement and
WB Procurement Guidelines. Cooperation with the Moscow Resident Mission of the World Bank proved
productive, helped solve emerging administrative and political issues and thus contributed to successful
implementation of the project.

2.       Borrower / Project Implementation Unit

With a view to monitor project implementation progress, the Coordination Council was set up under
MLSD (August 20, 1998) to arrange activities and assist in interagency co-operation in SPAL and SPIL
implementation.
The Coordination Council was an administrative and supervisory body of MLSD for the SPIL Project
since MLSD was the main beneficiary.

All financial and administrative decisions with respect to the Project were taken by MLSD together with
RFSR and then approved the Management Board. Early every year the General Assembly of
Founders/Participants of RFSR discussed the annual report for the previous year as well as the
implementation schedule and the budget for the current year.

With a view to assure proper project management, RFSR designed key manuals and guides to regulate
daily activities. They included the operating manual, the guide on implementing tenders and concluding
contracts, the procedure for examination and acceptance of consultants' reports, recommendations
regarding consultants' remuneration amounts, internal administration procedures, the office work manual,
accounting policy, and etc. An internal financial and management information system was set up to
supervise project implementation including implementation of its procurement plan and effective keeping of
accounting records and management of accounts. A database of consulting firms and individual consultants
that delivered consulting services under SPIL and other social projects was developed.
RFSR duly prepared all project progress and financial reports and submitted them to MLSD and the World
Bank, which assured effective monitoring of project implementation progress by all the parties involved.

E.       LESSONS LEARNED

Most of SPIL assignments were implemented with the involvement of administrations of Russian regions.
Such experience of co-operation with regional administrations can, therefore, be considered one of project
benefits. SPIL experience in this area showed that conclusion of legal agreements regulating interaction
between a PIU and Russian Federation subjects is mandatory for successful achievement of project
objectives and tasks. The main document that governed interaction between RFSR and regional
administrations was the Agreement concluded with each of the nine regions ­ recipients of office and
computer equipment under the pilot program of adopting the new model of CA payments. The Agreement
regulated legal, technical and financial issues arising in project implementation.

Contracting a group of individual consultants coordinated by a team leader with clear-cut distribution of
tasks between consultants proved effective in delivery of consulting services specifically under the Pension
Reform Component. This experience can be particularly relevant to the implementation of projects that are
closely linked to economic and other reforms and require prompt and effective response to new realities.




                                                      - 27 -

RFSR practiced limited involvement of international consultants in SPIL implementation. Learning from
foreign experience with pension systems, medical and social insurance and active labor market programs
mostly took place through foreign study tours arranged for Russian legislative and executive government
specialists. It was done so in view of the fact that the cost of two such arrangements was comparable with
the amount of one short-term contract with an international expert.

Still another beneficial effect of the Project resulted from participation of domestic consultants in selection
procedures for contracts under the SPIL Project. This provided support to leading Russian social research
centers, helped improve their research standards and encouraged the development of consulting services
market in the social sector.
In SPIL experience, publication of assignment outputs in the form of books, brochures, etc and their further
distribution among personnel of SA offices proved to be the best way of disseminating information and
experience. This is particularly important to such a vast country as Russia in which some remote regions
have no access to electronic means of communication including Internet. Thus, professional libraries are
made up in local SA offices and employees can use them in their daily work. SPIL experience also shows
that publishing work becomes more efficient if a call-off contract is signed with a publishing house selected
on a competitive basis for the whole project period. The PIU can place orders with the selected publishing
house as required.

Territorial SA offices usually take a creative approach to recommended methodologies adapting them to
local conditions. Implementation of seminars and conferences ensures both horizontal exchange of
experience among regions and vertical exchange of experience when federal executives receive first hand
information about the state of things and the use of their recommendations locally.

Russian participants of the Project pointed out that it is essential to disseminate information on project
findings. In designing social projects, it, therefore, appears expedient to envisage a compulsory set of
activities with a view to disseminate information on implemented assignments by arranging seminars or
publications or through Internet.

As it was mentioned before, effective management of the Project by RFSR staff contributed to its
successful implementation. During the implementation period, RFSR employees took courses in
"International Procurement Management" and "Financial Management and Disbursement in World Bank
Financed Projects", which was essential for project implementation. Thanks to the strong qualification of
PIU staff, 98% of the Loan was disbursed by the closure date, which is a very good result.

SPIL implementation experience shows that its success depended on PIU staff qualification and
competence, their practical experience and team work. It is also important that a PIU be able to maintain
effective interaction in various project-related issues with Russian participants particularly federal
executive government bodies as well as the Bank supervising team. Disbanding a PIU after it completes a
project does not appear reasonable. It also seems worthwhile to consider the feasibility of developing a
database of trained, competent and experienced personnel that can be employed in other similar projects.

Funds should be budgeted for training PIU personnel of social projects.

In designing social projects the following should be kept in mind:
·        Such projects require longer implementation period and a flexible approach to work programs. The
reason is that project focus may shift and new tasks are likely to arise as a result of both changes in the
social and economic context and initial outcomes obtained.
·        Capacity of local SA offices is usually very low and they, therefore, need to be equipped with


                                                      - 28 -

computer and office facilities before launching any reforms. In this context, SPIL strategy proved correct
because procurement of equipment for territorial Goskomstat and local SA offices preceded the actual
implementation of the NOBUS survey and transfer to the new model of CA administration.
·       One of social project success factors is stability and succession within the Borrower and the Bank
supervising teams.


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                                    - 29 -

10. Additional Information

Original Components

A.      Pension Reform
   Provision of consultant services and training:
a.      assist Pension Fund in managing individual worker accounts and establishing regulatory
        framework for governing such accounts;
b.      audit the Pension Fund accounts;
c.      implement action plan for improving collections of pension contributions;
d.      prepare detailed concept and draft legislation on systemic pension reform involving introduction of
        a three-tier pension system;
e.      design and implement public information and communications campaign;
f.      implement systemic pension reform;
g.      organize actuarial activities.

B.      Social Assistance
   Provision of consultant services and training to:
a.      design and implement programs in the Komi Republic, and in the Volgograd and Voronezh oblasts,
        to pilot various methods of means-testing social assistance benefits;
b.      conduct national evaluation and dissemination of the results of the pilot programs;
c.      review social benefits, subsidies, compensation and payments; and
d.      review the system of local delivery of social services.

C.      Social Protection
   Provide consultant services, training and computer equipment to MLSD and Goskomstat to:
a.      put in place a monitoring system of regional and national social transfers;
b.      analyze data and monitor poverty and nutrition levels;
c.      conduct a national survey of household welfare and program participation; and
d.      review governmental and non-governmental programs directed at child protection, handicapped and
        homeless.

D.      Child Allowances
   Provision of consultant services, training and computer equipment for:
a.      design and implementation of pilot programs in Belgorod, Kaluga, Moscow, Novgorod, Volgograd
        oblasts and the Udmurtia Republic involving the transfer of administration of child allowance
        payments from enterprises to local social assistance offices; and
b.      dissemination of the results of the pilot programs.

E.      Unemployment Assistance
a.      Provision of consultant services and training for:
   i.       design and implement system to monitor unemployment and changes in type, duration and
            other characteristics of unemployment as new laws or measures are introduced;
   ii.      assistance in legislative drafting work relating to amendments to the federal laws on
            employment;
   iii.     audit of the Employment Fund;
   iv.      assistance in legislative drafting work relating to the Labor Code;



                                                    - 30 -

     v.     review of programs designed to support the long-term unemployed; and
     vi.    evaluation of experiences with public works programs

Revised Components

(A)     Pension Reform
Support development of a fiscally affordable pension system:
(i)     design and development of a new pension system;
(ii)    improvement of actuarial capacity; and
(iii)   communication of reforms to the public to elicit public opinion and gather public support.

(B/C) Social Assistance / Social Protection

Support development of a well-administered and targeted, financially viable social assistance system:

5.1     implement pilot programs to inform policy;
(i)     information sharing of targeting programs and administrative practices;
(ii)    data collection and analysis of poverty and the incidence of social expenditures;
(iii)   improve financial management of the Social Insurance Fund; and
(iv)    strengthen social insurance programs related to disability and occupational disease.

(D)     Child Allowances
Support Government program aimed at creating a well-administered and well-targeted child allowance
system by:

(i)     transferring child allowances from enterprises to local social protection offices;
(ii)    improving child allowance administration;
(iii)   disseminating administration experience across regions; and
(iv)    training social protection staff in administering child benefits;
(v)     assisting Government in evaluating and further developing various forms of support to families
with children.

(E)     Unemployment Assistance
Support Government efforts to improve labor market efficiency and provide financially viable, adequate
and efficient support to the unemployed through:

(i)     improving labor and employment legislation;
(ii)    planning, design and evaluation of Active Labor Market Programs;
(iii)   improving management of the financing of the unemployment; and
(iv)    transition to international standards in occupational classification.

The original action plans for project components were amended as follows:

Action plan for the Pension Reform Component was supplemented by one activity:

(i) providing assistance to the Pension Fund in improving collections of pension contributions;

Action plan for the Social Assistance Component was supplemented by three activities:

(i)     survey the financial condition of the Federal Fund for Health Insurance;
(ii)    assist MLSD in improving efficiency of the operation of the State Medical and Social Examination


                                                     - 31 -

        Service (SMSES); and
(iii)   assist the Social Insurance Fund in connection with introduction of mandatory social insurance
        against occupational injury and disease.

Action plan for the Child Allowances Component was supplemented by one activity:

      (i) financial analysis of the Social Insurance Fund.

Project Implementation

The project was implemented by the Russian Foundation for Social Reforms (RFSR) and Goskomstat. The
Foundation was responsible for implementation functions such as project accounting, procurement,
disbursements, preparation and/or consolidation of quarterly and annual progress reports, annual work
programs, and budgets. The Foundation has been established as a non commercial organization that will
operate in accordance with the legislation of the Russian Federation. The Board of Trustees comprises
representatives from the Duma, the Ministries of Finance, Economy, Labor and Social Development,
Health, Education, the State Committee for Statistics, the Pension Fund, the Social Insurance Fund, the
Federal Mandatory Health Insurance Fund, the Federal Center for Project Financing, the Center for Project
Preparation and Implementation, the Ministry for Social Issues of the Komi Republic, the administrations
of Voronezh and Volgograd Oblasts, and two NGOs. The Foundation had a General Assembly of
Founders, a Board of Trustees, a Management Board, a Directorate, and an Expert Council to serve as a
consultative body on technical issues. The SPIL activities were carried out on the basis of the Work
Program and the project administrative budget approved annually by the RFSR Board and agreed upon
with the Bank.

The Social Protection Offices in Belgorod, Kaluga, Moscow, Novgorod, Voronezh, and Volgograd oblasts,
and the Republics of Komi and Udmurtia were responsible for the management of the pilot social
assistance and child allowance components. Goskomstat was particularly responsible for implementation of
NOBUS household survey.

Component 1: PENSION REFORM

Draft Pension Reform Laws Supported by SPIL

·       "On State Pension Provision in the Russian Federation" (No166 (Federal Law) of December 15,
        2001),
·       "On Mandatory Pension Insurance in the Russian Federation" (FL No167 of December 15, 2001),
·       "On Labor Pensions in the Russian Federation" (FL No173 of December 17, 2001),
·       "On Investing Funds to Finance the Funded Tier of Labor Pension in the Russian Federation" (FL
        No111 of July 24, 2002),
·       "On Amendments to Federal Law "On Individual (Personified) Worker Accounts in the System of
        State Pension Insurance" (FL No 198 of December 31, 2002).
·       Federal Law "On Mandatory Occupational Pension Systems" passed the first reading in the State
        Duma in 2002.
·       Federal Law "On Non-Government Pension Funds" was amended in January 2003;
·       Regulatory legal documents on the implementation of legislation that governs the funded tier of
labor pensions in the system of mandatory pension insurance were adopted in 2003.




                                                   - 32 -

Component 2: SOCIAL ASSISTANCE / SOCIAL PROTECTION

Following the work under SPIL, the Federal Law "On State Social Assistance" dated July 17, 1999 No
178, and the Federal Law No 44 of April 5, 2003 "On Procedure to Assess Incomes and Calculate
Average Per Capita Income of a Family or Income of a Solitary Resident to Recognize them as Poor and
Provide Them with State Social Assistance" were adopted.

Component 3: CHILD ALLOWANCES

The key outcome of this component was based on successful pilots implemented (under SPIL) in 6 regions:
Belgorod, Kaluga, Moscow, Novgorod, Volgograd oblasts and Udmurtia Republic. Based on this success,
the SPIL program was later expanded to 9 additional regions, for a total of 15.

In 1998, the Federal Law No 134 was adopted on 29 July 1998 "On Amendments and Additions to the
Federal Law "On Public Child Allowances to Persons with Children". This law stipulated introduction of
accounting the average per capita income of the family as a condition for entitlement to these allowances.
According to the Federal Law adopted on 17 July 1999 "On Amendment to Article 16 of the Federal Law
"On Public Child Allowances to Persons with Children", families are entitled to a monthly child allowance
if their average per capita income does not exceed the subsistence level established in the subject of the
Russian Federation.

Component 4: UNEMPLOYMENT ASSISTANCE

Work under SPIL lead to the four Federal Laws that amended Federal Law "On Employment of Population
in the Russian Federation" (No 85 of April 4, 1999; No 175 of July 17, 1999; No 195 of November 20,
1999; and No 8 January 10, 2003)

As noted earlier, SPIL financed preparation of two alternative drafts of Labor Code by different teams. The
first draft was based on the concept of improving the existing labor legislation, preserving the leading role
of the state in regulating labor relations. The second draft was oriented towards achieving a maximum of
flexibility of labor relations and increasing role of contract mechanisms for their regulation, resulting in
cardinal reforms of existing labor legislation.

Although the Duma in December 2001 approved the consolidated version of the Code as a compromise
between the different political views using also other versions of a new Labor Code that had been
introduced by members of Parliament, the approval of the Code as a framework labor law can be
considered as an achievement of the project.

The draft new Labor Code of the Russian Federation was published in "Rossiiskaya Gazeta" on 28 April
1999, to inform Russian people and organize a large-scale discussion. A public information campaign on
new labor relations was implemented in 2003 to inform the population about new labor relations and to
clarify provisions of the new Labor Code.

SPIL TA contracts provided assistance in transition to international standards in occupational
classification. In particular, a new Russian occupational classifier was drafted (2001), and a methodology
to develop occupational standards was designed and tested while developing relevant standards for jobs in
various industries (2003).




                                                    - 33 -

Costs and Financing

As explained in Section 5.4 above, amendments to the Loan Agreement resulted in the reallocation of loan
proceeds as follows:

Category (1) Goods was increased by US$ 2,050,000 to US$ 8,450,000;
Category (2) Consultants' Services was increased by US$ 2,080,000 to US$ 10,980,000;
Category (3) Training was reduced by US$ 1,050,000 to US$ 1,750,000;
Category (4) Publishing Services was reduced by US$ 220,000 to US$ 280,000;
Category (5a) Incremental Operating Costs for RFSR was increased by US$ 650,000 to US$ 3,650,000;
Category (5b) Incremental Operating Costs for Goskomstat was reduced by US$ 900,000 to US$
1,500,000;




                                                 - 34 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Component I: Pension Reform

(a)         Design and develop a legal                                      (a) A detailed concept paper, draft (federal)
framework for a systemic pension reform.                                    laws including draft Pension Code, and legal
                                                                            and regulatory documents on pension reform
                                                                            were developed and enacted/amended;
                                                                            occupational pension schemes were put in
                                                                            place and individual (personalized) worker
                                                                            accounts system was improved; an
                                                                            information portal was set up in Internet to
                                                                            calculate labor pension amounts; equipment
                                                                            was procured for the Non-government
                                                                            Pension Fund Inspectorate under MLSD; 7
                                                                            publications on pension delivery and
                                                                            non-government pension delivery were
                                                                            published and distributed.

                                                                            (b) Actuarial research facilitated initiation of
b)          Improve actuarial capacity.                                     the institute of actuaries and implementation
                                                                            of actuarial calculations to justify PF
                                                                            payments and ensure reliability and financial
                                                                            viability of non-government pension funds.
                                                                            Statistical information obtained under SPIL
                                                                            was also used for actuarial calculations in
                                                                            order to ensure reliability and sustainability of
                                                                            the state pension insurance system.

                                                                            (c) A public information program was
                                                                            launched regarding pension reform.
(c)         Communicate the idea and the                                    Information program that included publication
content of pension reform to general public to                              and distribution of brochures, implementation
elicit public opinion and gather public                                     of round tables and seminars, publication of
support.                                                                    articles, production and broadcast of
                                                                            information videos, etc, was implemented.




Component II: Social Assistance                                             (a) New methodologies of means-testing
                                                                            extreme poverty benefits were piloted in three
(a)         Implement social assistance pilots                              regions: Komi Republic, Voronezh and
in three regions to test approaches to                                      Volgograd oblasts; regional legislation that
means-testing a new extreme poverty benefit.                                regulates social assistance delivery to the
                                                                            poor was reviewed; an information system
                                                                            that helps track and analyze all existing social
                                                                            benefits, subsidies, payments and
                                                                            compensations at the federal, regional and
                                                                            local levels was put in place.

(b)       Share information on targeting and                                (b) Comparative assessment of
administration of social assistance.                                        means-testing methods was made;
                                                                            methodological recommendations for local
                                                                            SA offices on targeted SA programs were
                                                                            developed and distributed among SA offices
                                                                            of Russian regions; Information-Analytical
                                                                            System "Targeted Social Assistance" was
                                                                            launched; over 700 SA specialists received
                                                                            advanced training; four publications on SA
                                                                            relevant issues were published.

                                                                            (c) Effectiveness of social services provided
(c)         Review the system of local delivery                             by social security institutions was analyzed;
of social services.                                                         procedures to finance social institutions were
                                                                            developed and recommendations for regional



                                                         - 35 -

                                                            administrations regarding budgetary
                                                            financing of social sector institutions were
                                                            prepared; categories of those entitled to
                                                            social services were reviewed.

                                                            (d) The existing SMSES system was
(d)        Assist MLSD in improving                         reviewed; its operating procedures were
efficiency of SMSES operations.                             improved; software application for local and
                                                            regional levels of SMSES to improve
                                                            examination of the disabled, information
                                                            processing and development of rehabilitation
                                                            programs was developed and piloted in two
                                                            regions; unified recommendations regarding
                                                            the monitoring system of disability were
                                                            developed for MLSD; a stage-by-stage plan
                                                            was designed to automate SMSES
                                                            operations and develop an all-Russia
                                                            information database.

                                                            (e) Current legislation regulating mandatory
(e)        Strengthen social insurance                      social insurance against occupational risks
programs related to disability and                          was reviewed; detailed analysis of foreign
occupational disease.                                       experience with this type of insurance and of
                                                            possibility to use any of schemes existing
                                                            abroad in Russia was performed; alternative
                                                            approaches to reforming mandatory social
                                                            insurance against occupational risks in
                                                            Russia were developed; proposals regarding
                                                            amendments to effective legal and regulatory
                                                            acts and systemic adjustments to administer
                                                            this type of insurance were elaborated.



Component III: Social Protection

(a)        Put in place a monitoring system of              (a) Sufficiency of funds to fulfill social
federal and regional social transfers.                      obligations stipulated by federal legislation
                                                            was assessed; recommendations were
                                                            developed to help MOF and MLSD improve
                                                            the budgetary process and classification to
                                                            make inter-budget distribution of social
                                                            transfers more effective.

                                                            (b) An anthropometric, medical, social and
b)         Analyze data on poverty and                      economic survey of families was conducted
nutrition levels.                                           in 5 regions with the help of Goskomstat
                                                            territorial offices; recommendations regarding
                                                            delivery of targeted food support to the needy
                                                            and methodological guidelines on
                                                            subsistence minimum food basket for
                                                            different Russian regions were developed.
                                                            These surveys resulted in much more
                                                            accurate data on incomes and poverty levels.

                                                            (c) Zero and main rounds of the NOBUS
(c)        Conduct a national survey of                     survey were carried out; 180,000 households
household welfare and program participation.                in 86 regions were interviewed; previously
                                                            lacking information about socioeconomic
                                                            position of the poorest groups was obtained.



IComponent IV: Child Allowances

(a)        Transfer administration and                      (a) Pilots were implemented in 6 regions to
payment of child allowances from enterprises                adopt the new model of CA administration;
to local social assistance offices.                         local SA offices in 15 regions were equipped
                                                            with computer and copying equipment;
                                                            application software used in the pilot regions
                                                            to administer CA payments was checked and



                                                  - 36 -

                                                           recommendations on its modernization and
                                                           update were provided; a general guideline
                                                           package on administration of CA payments
                                                           was designed.
(b)        Improve administration of child
allowances.                                                (b) Experiences of the six regions that
                                                           piloted new methods of administering CA
                                                           payments was summarized for further
                                                           dissemination across the country; up-to-date
                                                           information technologies were adopted by SA
                                                           offices of the pilot regions; senior SA officers
                                                           and heads of regional administrations
                                                           improved their qualification in and awareness
                                                           of social area issues.
)          Disseminate administration
experience across regions.                                 (c) Exchange of information among Russian
                                                           regions in the form of all-Russian and
                                                           inter-regional seminars was arranged to
                                                           share best practice in CA administration and
                                                           other forms of social support to families with
                                                           children; the total of 19 methodological aids
                                                           and collected editions on a wide range of
                                                           issues relevant to social support of the family
                                                           and children were prepared, published and
                                                           distributed.
(d)        Train social protection staff in
social support of the family and children and              (d) A model program to train specialists in
particularly in CA administration.                         the administration of CA payments was
                                                           tested in the pilot regions and finally shaped;
                                                           teaching and methodological aids were
                                                           designed and published; training and
                                                           methodological seminars in various aspects
                                                           of social support to the family and children
                                                           were arranged and implemented for over
                                                           3,000 specialists; a model regional program
                                                           to inform and educate general public in social
                                                           support to families with children was
                                                           designed, tested and published.

(e)        Improve financial management of                 (e) Financial review of SIF operations in
the Social Insurance Fund (SIF).                           FY1998 was conducted; recommendations to
                                                           improve financial management, internal
                                                           auditing, staff training and etc were
                                                           elaborated.

(f)        Provide assistance to the                       (f) Two research papers on the development
Government in evaluating and further                       of state policy in social support of the family
developing various forms of support to                     and children and on social services provided
families with children.                                    for the family and children with the
                                                           involvement of the non-government sector
                                                           were prepared; their findings were published;
                                                           methodological seminars for specialists on
                                                           various issues relevant to social support of
                                                           the family and children were conducted.
Component V: Unemployment Assistance                       (a) Two alternative draft labor laws were
                                                           designed; a new draft labor code was
(a)        Assist in improvement of labor and              designed; an international seminar on labor
employment legislation.                                    legislation reform was implemented in June
                                                           1998; a strategy for a public information
                                                           campaign on new labor relations in Russia
                                                           was designed; the campaign was
                                                           implemented in 2003; a concept paper to
                                                           reform employment legislation was designed;
                                                           a new draft employment law was designed in
                                                           2001; four seminars were implemented for
                                                           State Duma deputies and specialists of
                                                           federal ministries.

(b)        Support the Government's efforts                (b) Comprehensive review of the existing



                                                 - 37 -

to improve labor market efficiency through                              unemployment and labor market monitoring
planning, design and evaluation of Active                               system was carried out (1999); activity of the
Labor Market Programs.                                                  state employment service was reviewed and
                                                                        its effectiveness was evaluated; proposals to
                                                                        regulate the labor market were developed
                                                                        (1999); an international seminar on
                                                                        increasing the effectiveness of active labor
                                                                        market programs was implemented (2001)
                                                                        and its materials were published (2002);
                                                                        methodological recommendations for
                                                                        planning active labor market programs in
                                                                        Russian regions were developed (2003);
                                                                        procedure to profile the unemployed in the
                                                                        system of the state employment service was
                                                                        designed (2003).

                                                                        (c) Recommendations regarding
(c)        Improve procedures for financing                             mechanisms of centralization and
state employment policy.                                                redistribution of EF resources were
                                                                        developed (1998); preliminary financial review
                                                                        of EF operations was undertaken and key
                                                                        lines along which its financial operations
                                                                        should be improved were identified (1998);
                                                                        audit of the Employment Fund was
                                                                        conducted (1999); recommendations to
                                                                        improve EF internal audit and financial
                                                                        management procedures and personnel
                                                                        training were developed; after the transfer of
                                                                        the function of financing state employment
                                                                        policy to the Federal Treasury,
                                                                        methodological materials and draft regulatory
                                                                        acts were developed to govern the budgetary
                                                                        process to finance state employment policy
                                                                        (2001); a concept paper regarding the
                                                                        unemployment benefit system based on
                                                                        insurance principals was drafted.

                                                                        (d) A new Russian occupational classification
                                                                        was drafted (2001); a technique to develop
d) Assist in transition to international                                occupational standards was designed (2003);
standards in occupational classification.                               methodology to forecast labor demand to
                                                                        facilitate balanced development of the labor
                                                                        and training services markets was elaborated
                                                                        (2003).


Output Indicators:
                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                     - 38 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Pension Reform                                               8.91            3.89              66
Social Assistance                                            1.23            2.81              45
Social Protection                                            5.51            2.83              79
Child Allowance                                             11.95            8.65              80
Unemployment Assistance                                      2.58            2.68              79
Project Management                                           5.77            4.84              88

Total Baseline Cost                                         35.95          25.70
                        Total Project Costs                 35.95          25.70
                  Total Financing Required                  35.95          25.70


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          7.30              0.20         1.76         0.00          9.26
                                  (5.84)           (0.15)      (1.33)         (0.00)       (7.32)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00        16.10         0.00         16.10
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (12.87)        (0.00)      (12.87)
4. Miscellaneous:                 0.00              0.19         0.45         0.00          0.64
Publications                      (0.00)           (0.16)      (0.36)         (0.00)       (0.52)
5. Miscellaneous:                 0.00              0.00         7.90         0.05          7.95
Incremental Operating             (0.00)           (0.00)      (5.89)         (0.00)       (5.89)
Costs for RFSR and
Goskomstat
6. Miscellaneous:                 0.00              0.00         2.00         0.00          2.00
Refunding of Project              (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.00)         (0.00)       (2.00)
Preparation Advance
   Total                          7.30              0.39        28.21         0.05         35.95
                                  (5.84)           (0.31)      (22.45)        (0.00)      (28.60)




                                                - 39 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
  1. Works                                  0.37               0.21              0.88             0.00              1.46
                                           (0.34)             (0.14)            (0.54)            (0.00)           (1.02)
  2. Goods                                  5.02               0.00              0.38             0.00              5.40
                                           (4.50)             (0.00)            (0.38)            (0.00)           (4.88)
  3. Services                               0.00               0.00             10.18             0.00             10.18
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (7.29)            (0.00)           (7.29)
  4. Miscellaneous:                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
  Publications                             (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  5. Miscellaneous:                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
  Incremental Operating                    (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  Costs for RFSR and
  Goskomstat
  6. Miscellaneous:                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
  Refunding of Project                     (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  Preparation Advance
       Total                                5.39               0.21             11.45             0.00             17.04
                                           (4.84)             (0.14)            (8.21)            (0.00)           (13.19)

    1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Pension Reform                  7.39         1.48                     3.89         0.45                  52.6      30.4
Social Assistance               1.01         0.21                     2.81         0.52                  278.2    247.6
Social Protection               4.56         0.95                     2.83         0.31                  62.1      32.6
Child Allowances                9.38         2.54                     8.65         1.91                  92.2      75.2
Unemployment Assistance         0.60         0.43                     2.68         0.40                  446.7     93.0
Project Management              4.16         1.60                     4.84         0.45                  116.3     28.1
Total                          27.10         7.21                    25.70         4.04                  94.8      56.0




                                                           - 40 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 41 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               May, June 1997            2     Task Team Leader                      S               S
                                               Project Specialist
                                               2 Human Resources Officers
                                               Social Policy Consultant

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               July 1997                 1     Task Manager                          S               S
                                               Human Resources Officer
                                               Operation Analyst
                                               Consultant

 Supervision
               FY97 through             16     2 Program Team Leaders                S               S
                     FY03                      2 Task Team Leaders
                                               Sector Leader, Social
                                               Protection, ECA Region
                                               2 Operation Officers
                                               Operation Analyst
                                               2 Lead Economists
                                               Senior Economist
                                               Labor Specialist
                                               Pension and Social
                                               Protection Administrative
                                               Specialist
                                               Sr. Social Protection
                                               Specialist
                                               Procurement Specialist
                                               Sr. Technical Specialist
                                               Technical Specialist


 ICR
               March 2004                1     Task Team Leader                      S               S
                                               Senior Labor Economist



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               24.2                             74.7
  Appraisal/Negotiation                      4.0                            11.2
  Supervision                             326.4                           795.0
  ICR                                        6.0                            18.0
  Total                                   360.6                           898.9




                                               - 42 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 43 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 44 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents




                                      - 45 -

- 46 -

