Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4234 RU
Loan Agreement
(Social Protection Implementation Project)
between
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 18, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4234 RU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 18, 1997, between RUSSIAN FEDERATION (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Bank  has received a letter dated June 5, 1997, from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s social protection system (hereinafter called 
the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program; 
and 
(C)
 the Project will be carried out by the Borrower through the Russian 
Foundation for Social Reforms (RFSR) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to RFSR part of the proceeds of the 
Loan as provided in this Agreement; 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
RFSR;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read: 
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been 
suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period 
of thirty days, or 
(b) at any time, the Bank determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with 
respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan,  that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 
or the execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines 
that 
the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or 
(f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by 
notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such 
amount of the Loan shall be canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"Employment Fund” means the Fund for Employment of the Population of the 
Russian Federation, operating pursuant to Government Resolution No. 5132-1, dated June 
8, 1993; and Law No. 36-FZ, dated April 20, 1996; 
(b)
"Goskomstat” means the State Committee of the Borrower for Statistics;
(c)
“MLSD” means the Ministry of Labor and Social Development of the 
Borrower; 
(d)
“Operations Manual” means operations manual of RFSR including the 
Internal Rules and Regulations, to be adopted by the Management Board of RFSR; 
(e)
"Pension Fund” means the Russian Federation Pension Fund, operating 
pursuant to Resolution No. 2122-1 of the Government of the Borrower, dated December 
12, 1991; Presidential Decree No. 2288, dated December 24, 1993; and Federal Law No. 
77-FZ, dated May 5, 1997;
(f)
"Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and RFSR of even 
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(g)
"Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated June 18, 
1997 and July 19, 1997, between the Borrower and the Bank; 
(h)    “RFSR” means the Russian Foundation for Social Reforms established 
pursuant to Ordinance No. 1077-P of the Government of the Borrower dated August 2, 
1997, and operating pursuant to its Statutes registered by the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Justice, through the certificate of registration dated September 1, 1997;
Page  3
(i)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(j)
“Statutes” means the charter and founders’ agreement of RFSR, dated June 
23, 1997, as amended to the date of this Agreement; and
(k)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement or other arrangement 
satisfactory to the Bank to be entered into between the Borrower and RFSR pursuant to 
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
twenty-eight million six hundred thousand Dollars ($28,600,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the 
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after 
the 
initial period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period 
(or, in the 
case of the initial Interest Period, for value 
the Interest Payment 
Date occurring on or next preceding 
the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per 
annum.
Page  4
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
one- half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, 
below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans 
or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six months' notice to the Guarantor 
and the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of 
the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 
15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall (i) carry out Part C.3 of the Project through Goskomstat, with assistance 
provided by RFSR in respect of procurement and disbursement, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial and administrative procedures 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other resources 
required for Part C.3 of the Project; and (ii) cause RFSR to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of RFSR therein set 
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable RFSR to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(b)
For the purposes of carrying out Parts A, B, C.1, C.2, C.4, D, E, and F 
of the Project, the Borrower shall make available to RFSR part of the proceeds of the 
Loan under an agreement or other arrangement acceptable to the Bank (the Subsidiary 
Agreement), on a non-reimbursable basis. 
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by RFSR 
in respect of Parts A, B, C.1, C.2, C.4, E, and F of the Project pursuant to Section 
2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Page  5
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan concerning the pilot 
activities supported by the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, or cause to be prepared, under terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank on or about March 31, 1999, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by June  30, 1999, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part C.3 of the Project of any 
department or agency of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any 
part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;(iii)ensure that 
such records and accounts are included 
in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures 
and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be 
Page  6
relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
RFSR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Agreement;
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which makes it improbable that 
RFSR will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement or the 
Subsidiary Agreement; 
(c)
The Statutes of RFSR shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of RFSR to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary 
Agreement;
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablish\1fment of RFSR or for the suspension of 
its operations; and
(e)
A situation shall have arisen which makes it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur in respect of an obligation so as to affect materially and adversely the 
execution of the Project and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
Any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
RFSR has commenced operations in a manner acceptable to the Bank; and 
(b)
The Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and 
RFSR.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by RFSR 
and is legally binding upon RFSR in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
RFSR and is legally binding upon RFSR in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Page  7
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower or the Deputy Minister of 
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Ul. Ilyinka, 9
103097 Moscow
Russian Federation
Telex:
112008
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
By /s/ Yuli Vorontsov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Michael Carter
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
TABLE WAS DONE IN COLUMN FORMAT
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  8
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means reasonable and necessary 
expenses of an entity in respect of the carrying out of its day-to-day operations and 
the administration of activities under the Project, or the respective part thereof, 
which would not have been incurred in the absence of the Project, and consisting of: 
(i) operating expenses incurred by RFSR and payable on account of the cost of 
salaries, utility services, office supplies, audit of RFSR accounts and rental of 
premises for a thirty-six month period following the date of this Agreement, all as 
set forth in the agreed budget of RFSR which shall have been adopted pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Section III of the Schedule to the Project Agreement; and 
(ii) operating expenses incurred by of Goskomstat on account of employment, 
subsistence and travel of interviewers for household studies under Part C.3 of the 
Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated to Category (3) of this Schedule for training activities until the Bank 
shall have been furnished with the specific information and criteria, acceptable to 
the Bank, relating to the content and the selection of the beneficiaries of the 
training activities concerned, and the proposed budget therefor, as required pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures, under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower, for: (a) goods under contracts not 
exceeding $300,000 equivalent; (b) services of consulting firms under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (c) services of individual consultants under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent. \0c
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to support the implementation of a number 
of specific measures to be undertaken by the Borrower under the Program to develop an 
effective system of income support and poverty relief suitable for the needs of a 
market economy, and (ii) to fill critical skill gaps and build capacity in agencies 
and institutions of the Borrower in a number of key areas essential to the effective 
achievement of the objectives of the Program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:  Pension Reform
Provision of consultant services and training for:
1.
assisting the Pension Fund in managing individual worker accounts and in 
establishing a regulatory framework for governing such accounts;
2.
auditing of the Pension Fund accounts;
3.
implementing an action plan for improving collections of pension contributions;
4.
preparing a detailed concept and draft legislation on systemic pension reform 
involving introduction of a three-tier pension system;
5.
designing and implementation of a public information and communications 
Page  9
campaign;
6.
implementing systemic pension reform; and
7.
organizing actuarial activities.
Part B:
Social Assistance
Provision of consultant services and training to:
1.
design and implement programs in the Komi Republic, and in the Volgograd and 
Voronezh oblasts, to pilot various methods of means-testing social assistance 
benefits;
2.
conduct a national evaluation and dissemination of the results of the pilot 
programs referred to in paragraph 1 of this Part B;
3.
review social benefits, subsidies, compensation and payments; and
4.
review the system of local delivery of social services.
Part C:
Social Protection
Provision of consultant services, training and computer equipment to MLSD and 
Goskomstat to:
1.
put in place a monitoring system of regional and national social transfers;
2.
analyze data and monitor poverty and nutrition levels;
3.
conduct a national survey of household welfare and program participation; and
4.
review governmental and non-governmental programs directed at child protection, 
handicapped and homeless.
Part D:
Child Allowances
Provision of consultant services, training and computer equipment for:
1.
design and implementation of pilot programs in Belgorod, Kaluga, Moscow, 
Novgorod, Volgograd oblasts and the Udmurtia Republic involving the transfer of 
administration of child allowance payments from enterprises to local social assistance 
offices; and
2.
dissemination of the results of the pilot programs carried out under Part D.1 of 
the Project.
Part E:
Unemployment Assistance
Provision of consultant services and training for:
1.
design and implementation of a system to monitor unemployment and changes in 
type, duration and other characteristics of unemployment as new laws or measures are 
introduced;
2.
assistance in legislative drafting work relating to amendments to the federal 
laws on employment;
3.
audit of the Employment Fund;
4.
assistance in legislative drafting work relating to the Labor Code;
5.
review of programs designed to support the long-term unemployed; and 
6.
evaluation of experiences with public works programs.
Part F:
Russian Foundation for Social Reforms (RFSR)
Page  10
Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower to implement the Project through 
provision to the RFSR of technical assistance, including services for audits of 
project accounts, equipment, materials and training.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
On each  June 15 and December 15
beginning June 15, 2003
through June 15, 2014 
1,190,000
On  December 15, 2014                          1,230,000
_________________________________
* 
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid,  except 
as provided in Sections 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Page  11
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Office equipment which the Bank agrees is not likely to attract international 
bidders, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $205,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines. 
2.
International Shopping
Goods other than office equipment estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,690,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $75,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for 
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall 
be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods to be procured pursuant to the 
provisions of Part B.1 of this Schedule (International Competitive Bidding) and 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b) 
With respect to each of the first two contracts for goods procured in 
accordance with the methods described in each of paragraphs 2 and 3 of Part C hereof 
(International and National Shopping), the following procedures shall apply:
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping 
procedures the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report 
on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank 
a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)  in addition, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) 
and 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section II.
Publishing Services 
1.
Contracts for publishing services under the Project estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $190,000, shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  
Page  12
2.
Contracts for publishing services under the Project estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $460,000, 
shall be procured on the basis of comparison of price quotations from at least three 
publishing houses eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank. 
Section III.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Services under Part B.1 of the Project for pilot programs in Komi Republic, 
Volgograd and Voronezh Oblasts, which are expected to be performed through contracts 
with research institutes and which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audits in an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,100,000 equivalent 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall 
be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan 
as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  13
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $4,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
Page  14
paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and 
other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
Page  15
