Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4234 RU
Project Agreement
(Social Protection Implementation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  AND DEVELOPMENT
and
RUSSIAN FOUNDATION FOR SOCIAL REFORMS
Dated December 18, 1997 
LOAN NUMBER 4234 RU 
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 18, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the RUSSIAN FOUNDATION FOR SOCIAL 
REFORMS (RFSR).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Russian 
Federation (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower an 
amount equal to twenty-eight million six hundred thousand Dollars ($28,600,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
RFSR agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
RFSR, part of the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
made available to RFSR on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Agreement; 
and
WHEREAS RFSR, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01.  (a) RFSR declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Parts A through C.2 and C.4 through F of the Project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and RFSR shall otherwise agree, RFSR shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to 
this Agreement. Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) RFSR shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, RFSR shall: (i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable 
to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date 
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and the 
Borrower, a plan for the continuation of the pilot activities supported by the 
Project; and (ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
RFSR on said plan.
Section 2.04. RFSR shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, RFSR shall not take or concur in 
any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving 
the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) RFSR shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
(b)
RFSR shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by RFSR of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 2.06.  RFSR shall cooperate with the Borrower in carrying out the 
obligations referred to in Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of RFSR 
Section 3.01. (a) RFSR shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound financial and administrative practices and the Operations Manual 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers. 
(b)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, RFSR shall not undertake any 
activity involving an expansion in the scope of the operations or activities of RFSR 
Page  3
beyond that defined by the Project, so as to affect materially and adversely the 
operations or the financial condition of RFSR or its ability to carry out the Project 
or perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary 
Agreement. 
Section 3.02. RFSR shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound financial and administrative 
practices.
Section 3.03. RFSR shall not amend its Statutes without the prior approval of 
the Bank. 
Section 3.04. RFSR shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank, for insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) RFSR shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
RFSR shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
(A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such 
year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of RFSR 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify RFSR of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
Page  4
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For RFSR:
Russian Foundation for Social Reforms
3/5 Smolensky Boulevard
Moscow 119121
Russian Federation
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of RFSR or by 
RFSR on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by 
its Director-General, or by such other person or persons as the Director-General shall 
designate in writing, and RFSR shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Michael Carter
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
RUSSIAN FOUNDATION FOR SOCIAL REFORMS
By /s/ Anatoly Gorshkov
Authorized Representative 
Schedule 
Implementation Schedule 
Page  5
I. 
Organization and Management of RFSR
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, RFSR 
shall employ at all times a Director General, a Project Director; an Accountant; a 
Procurement Specialist; a Disbursement Specialist, and Component Coordinators for: (i) 
Pension Reform under Part A of the Project; (ii) Social Assistance/Social Protection 
under Parts B and C, respectively, of the Project; (iii) Child Allowance under Part D 
of the Project; and (iv) Unemployment Assistance under Part E of the Project, all of 
whose qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the Bank. 
II. Financial 
Management
By October 31 of each year, RFSR shall submit to the Bank for review the 
proposed budget and financing plan for RFSR in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request.  Such budget and financing plan shall identify the expenditures to 
be financed by the Bank and the Borrower, respectively, during the following year. 
III.
Reporting
1.
RFSR shall:
(a)
 carry out Parts A through C.2 and C.4 through F of the Project under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank which shall include specific programs or 
plans of action to meet the objectives of the Project;
(b)
promptly after the completion of each consultant activity under the 
Project furnish to the Bank a copy of its findings and recommendations and of any 
reports prepared, including such programs or plans of action; and
(c)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views on such 
findings, recommendations and programs or plans of action.
2.
Regarding the training programs to be carried out under Parts A through C.2 and 
C.5 through F of the Project, RFSR shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank for approval the content of each such program as well 
as the schedule for its implementation;
(b)
select the beneficiaries of such training programs in accordance with 
criteria satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
not later than December 1 of each year, exchange views with the Bank on 
the training programs to be carried out in the following calendar year; and
(d)
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the results of each training program and the benefits to be 
derived therefrom. 
3.
RFSR shall, by December 1 of each year during the implementation of the Project, 
furnish to the Bank for its review the proposed work program of RFSR for the carrying 
out of Parts A through C.2 and C.4 through F of the Project activities during the 
following year, including specific information, in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, concerning the expenditures expected to be incurred by RFSR in 
respect of its operating expenses on account of such activities and the planned 
financing therefor and shall carry out the program as agreed with the Bank; and 
4.
RFSR shall prepare and submit to the Bank annual progress reports by  February 
15 of each year, and quarterly progress reports one month after the end of each 
quarter. 
IV. 
Interim Review and Performance
       RFSR shall:
(a)
 maintain procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an 
ongoing basis its performance, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
Page  6
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about March 31, 1999, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 1999, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
