Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11947-MOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
iRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
NOVEMBER 23, 1993
Middle East and North Africa Region
Maghreb and Iran Department
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQJIVALENT
Currency Unit   =   Moroccan Dirham (DH)
USS1.00   =   DH 9.0
DH1.00    =   USSO.111
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
GLOSSARY OF ADEVIATIONS
ASIL             Agricultural Sector Investment Loan
Prit aux investissements dans le secteur agricole
CMV              Development Center
Centre de mise en valeur
CRA              Land Reform Cooperative
Cooperative de la r6forme agraire
CREPA            Regional Center of Upgrading of Agricultural Skills
Centre regional de perfectionnement agricole
DDA              Department of Agricultural Development
D6partement du developpement agricole
DE               Livestock Department
Direction de l'6levage
DERD             Department Education, Research and Development
Direction de l'Enseignement, de la Recherche et du Developpement
DER              Department of Rural Engineering
Direction du Genie Rural
DPAE             Department of PLanning and Economic Affairs
Direction de La Planification et des Affaires Economiques
DPV              Department of Crop Production
Direction de ta Production V6g6tale
ENA              National School of Agricultural
EcoLe Nationale de l'Agriculture
FDA              Agricultural Development Fund
Fond de devetoppement agricole
IAV              Agricultural and Veterinarian Institute
Institut Agronomique et Veterinaire Hassan 11
INRA             National Institute of Agricultural Research
Institut National de La Recherche Agronomique
LSI              Large Scale Irrigation
Grande irrigation
LSII-2           Second Large Scale Irrigation Improvement Project
Deuxieme projet d'amelioration de ta grande irrigation
MAMVA            Ministry of Agriculture and Agricultural Development
Minist6re de L'agriculture et de La mise en valeur agricole
OP               Farmers' organizations
Organisations Professionnelles
ORMVA            Regional Authority for Agricultural Development
Office Regional de Mise en Valeur Agricole
SPA              Livestock Service
Service de La Production Animale
SPV              Crop Production Service
Service de La Production V6g6tale
SVOP             Extension and Farmers' Organizations Service
Service de ta Vulgarisation et des Organisations Professionnelles
SEMVA            Experimental and Agricultural Development Station
Station Exp6rimentale et de Mise en Valeur Agricole
SMSI             Small and Medium Scale Irrigation
Petite et moyenne hydraulique
WUA              Water User's Association
Association des usagers des eaux agricoles
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:               US$25 million equivalent
Terms:                 20 years, including 5 years grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Executing Agencies:    Directorate of Education, Research and Development and the nine Regional Agricultural
Development Authorities (ORMVA), under the Ministry of Agriculture and Agricultural
Development.
Project Obiectives:   The project objectives would be: to raise agricultural production and farmers' incomes
in the irrigated areas with special efforts to reach women who are mainly responsible for
livestock management; to improve the operating efficiency of the ORMVAs' agricultural
services; to promote commodity and service orientated farmer organizations to take on
development responsibilities; and to involve the university teaching/research staff in field
extension and research.
Proiect Description:  The project would include: (a) the transfer of technology including the strengthening of
adaptive research, agricultural extension and womens' programs with provision for staff
training, infrastructure, vehicles and equipment, the contracting out of some extension
and research activities, technical assistance and incremental operating costs; (b) provision
of supporting services to farmers including soils and plant analysis, pest and disease
warning system, and testing/demonstration of small equipment; (c) the promotion of
farmers' organizations with provision for technical assistance, training and initial
investments; (d) monitoring and evaluation of agricultural development in the irrigated
areas; and (e) studies. The project would complement, and be implemented in parallel
with the Second Large Scale Irrigation Project (Ln. 3587-MOR) which finances
rehabilitation of the network and the improvement of the ORMVAs' public utility
function for water distribution.
Benefits:             The project would be expected to have a substantial impact on agricultural production in
the irrigated and adjacent rainfed areas complementing efforts to be made under LS112
to better manage water resources. Some 125,000 farm families with land in the areas
under modern, large scale irrigation would benefit directly as would at least a further
75,000 families with rainfed land. Beneficiaries would include the many small farmers
on the irrigation schemes (over 60% have less than 2 ha) and the women who are
responsible for livestock management.
Risks:                The main risks stem from the difficulty of changing an existing organization, farmers'
slow adoption of some new technology and the Government's capacity to assure
continuity of funding.  To counter these risks the project first provides for the
reorganization of ORMVAs' services to be implemented prior to investments, for the up-
dating of the skills gap analysis prior to redeploying staff, as well as for considerable
staff training; second, the project provides for diagnostic studies to better identify
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



farmers' real constraints and the points at which research should be focussed
- also there are a number of on-going initiatives to tackle land tenure constraints which
will be supported by the planned ASIL2; and finally the efforts to improve the efficiency
of ORMVAs' services as well as to gradually transfer certain responsibilities to farmer
organizations, should help resolve the budget constraint over time.
Estimated Proiect Costs
Local           Foreign               Total
-------------  (US$ million)       ----------------
Constructions & civil works             0.7               0.4                 1.1
Vehicles & equipment                    3.1                4.4                7.5
Training, technical assistance          5.4                4.4                9.8
& studies
Incremental operating costs             9.0                2.3               11.3
Total Base Costs                      18.2              11.5                29.7
Physical Contingencies               0.4                0.6                1.0
Price Contingencies                   3.0               1.0                4.0
Total Project Costs                 a/21.6              13.1                34.7
a/ Including US$4.4 million of taxes and duties
Financing Plan
Local              Foreign               Total
--------------     ZUS$  million  ----
World Bank                              11.9                13.1               25.0
Government                              5.3                                     5.3
Net Project Costs                     17.2                 13.1               30.3
Taxes and Duties                       4.4                                     4.4
Total Project Costs                    21.6                 13.1               34.7
Estimated Disbursement
(US$ million)
IBRD    Fiscal    Year
1994      1995      1996    1997      1998      1999    2000    2001
Annual          1.5       1.8       4.6      6.0       5.8      3.2      1.5     0.6
Cumulative                3.3       7.9     13.9      19.7      22.9    24.4    25.0
Economic Rate of Return: N/A                      Poverty Category: N.A. (indirect impact)
MaR No.:            IBRD 24899



- iii -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.      PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND    ..........................    I
A. Project Background ...........................................  1
B. The Agricultural Sector  .          ......................................    2
C. Bank Support for Moroccan Agriculture  .............................    4
H.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND SERVICES IN THE IRRIGATED AREAS  6
A. The Irrigated Areas ..........................................                                    6
B. Agricultural Production  . ......................................    7
C. Agricultural Services .........................................    8
D. Increasing Role for the Private Sector  .........               .....................   10
E. Strategy for Intervention . ......................................   12
I.  THE PROJECT .............................................. 12
A. Project Origin and Rationale  ..........               ..........................   12
B. Project Objectives and Summary Description  ..........................   13
C. Detailed Features ............................................  14
D. Cost Estimates .............................................   21
E. Financing  ................................................   22
F. Procurement  ..............................................                                      23
G. Disbursements .............................................   25
IV.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ..................................   26
A. Project Organization  .        ........................................   26
B. Organization of Agricultural Services ...............................   27
C. Supervision and Mid-Term  Review  ................................   29
D. Accounts and Audit ...........................................  29
V.  PROJECT IMPACT ........................................... 30
A. Project Benefits ............................................. 30
B. Impact on Recurrent Costs  ..........                 ...........................   30
C. Cost Recovery  . ............................................   31
D. Environmental Impact . ........................................ 31
E. Risks .................................................                                          31
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  .................  32
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Morocco in February 1993,
comprising Messrs. J. Cole, (Task Manager), W. Zijp (Extension Specialist) and F-D Migeon (Financial
Analyst), A. Bouchitte (Consultant - Agricultural Economist) and J. Grolleau (Consultant - Horticulturist).
Ms. H. Lackner (Consultant - Sociologist) also participated in the preappraisal mission in October 1992.
The peer reviewer is Mr. Hosnich (EC4NR). The Division Chief is Mr. Odin Knudsen (MN 1AG) and
the Acting Country Department Director is Mr. Mahmood Ayub (MN1DR).



- iv -
Page No.
In-text Tables
Table 3.1       Project Cost Summary  ...................................    22
Table 3.2       Price Contingencies .....................................    22
Table 3.3       Project Financing Plan ...................................    23
Table 3.4       Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements ..................    24
Table 3.5       Disbursement Schedule ...................................    25
Table 3.6       Disbursement Categories ..................................    26
Annexes
Annex I         Agricultural Production and Potential
in the Irrigated Areas ...........          ....................                      34
Annex 2         Adaptive Research and Supporting Services ......................    45
Annex 3         Extension Services  .....................................    52
Annex 4         Womens' Program   .....................................    62
Annex 5         Farmers' Organizations  ..................................    67
Annex 6         Staff and Farmer Training Program  ...........................    79
Annex 7         Project Costs .........................................    83
Annex 8         Disbursement Schedule ...................................    87
Annex 9         Monitoring and Evaluation Indices  ...........................    88
Annex i0        Implementation Schedule  .................................    90
Annex 11        Supervision Plan .......................................    91
Annex 12        Selected Documents in Project File  ...........................    92
Charts
Chart 1         Organization of the Agricultural Sector
Chart 2         Organization of ORMVA Agricultural Services
Map No:         IBRD 24899
Implementation Volume
Working Paper no. 1  Production Agricole, Recherche Adaptative et
Actions d'Appui
Working Paper no. 2   Vulgarisation Agricole
Working Paper no. 3   Animation Feminine
Working Paper no. 4   Organisations Professionnelles
Working Paper no. 5   Cost Tables
MA:cde\idsps\sr\I1



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
I. PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01   This project forms one element of a coordinated lending program which the Bank is pursuing
in support of large scale irrigation (LSI) in Morocco. The project would raise the productivity of LSI
farming operations through increased transfer of technology and support to service cooperatives and
farmer organizations. In parallel, the second Large Scale Irrigation Improvement Project (LSII2),
which was approved by the Board March 30, 1993, covers network rehabilitation, efficiency and
sustainability of the public utility function of the Regional Agricultural Development Authorities
(ORMVA), on-farm water management techniques and environmental protection. An on-going
Agricultural Sector Investment Loan supports rainfed agricultural investments and the improvement of
public resource management.
1.02   As detailed in the recent Country Assistance Strategy (see Report No. P-61 14-MOR), Bank
strategy in Morocco stresses the need to improve public sector management, foster private sector
development, enhance environmental and water resource management, alleviate poverty and increase
the outward orientation of the economy, in addition to consolidating macroeconomic adjustment and
reform. The proposed project in improving the organization and efficiency of the ORMVAs'
agricultural services would contribute to the sustained improvements in public management while
benefitting both productivity and soil and water management. Private sector development would be
directly served by the development of farmers' organizations. The project would also reduce poverty
by raising the income of small farms and benefit women directly because of the important role they
play on farms (particularly on the smaller farms and in livestock management). The reduction of
poverty and the direct involvement of women in development actions are important planks in
Government's strategy for intervention in the sector. Although the irrigated areas are relatively well-
endowed compared with those areas which rely entirely on rainfall, there are many families who can
not subsist on their farm income. To the extent that the project can transfer improved technology to
these families, it would make a significant contribution to poverty reduction. Moreover, because of
the importance of women on farms in the irrigated areas, they would benefit directly from the project.
1.03  The success of Government's national program' for LSI expansion and rehabilitation is
dependent upon progress toward the OMRVAs' financial self-sufficiency through cost-effective O&M,
improved water-use efficiency and, above all, increased cost recovery. If farmers are to use water
more efficiently and obtain the increase in yields and cropping intensity required for them to be able,
over time, to pay the full cost of water, higher productivity through adoption of improved technology
1/    The eight-year program 1993-2000, includes 250,000 ha of new areas and 200,000 ha of
rehabilitation.



-2-
will be required. The ORMVAs' agricultural services would play an important role in the
development and transfer of the necessary technology. But, if these services are to be sustainable
within existing budget limitations, not only must the existing private sector network be exploited, but
its expansion actively promoted.
1.04   The Large Scale Irrigation Improvement Project (LSII1), approved in 1986, shifted the
emphasis from straight support for new investments to improving the performance of the existing
irrigation network by emphasizing rehabilitation and the reform of the institutions supporting the
system. It also began improving the transfer of technology by strengthening the agricultural services.
The proposed Irrigated Areas Agricultural Services (IAASP) project would build on the results of this
first project on support services while the second project, the LSII2, will continue with the program
of rehabilitation. The separation of services from the LSII2 project recognizes the importance of
focusing more emphasis on technology adaptation and extension.
1.05   A joint Bank and FAO/CP mission, in October 1991, identified the project which was
subsequently prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture and Agricultural Development with the help of a
FAO/CP mission in March 1992. The project was preappraised in October 1992 and appraised in
February 1993.
B. The Agricultural Sector
Physical and Economic Setting.
1.06   The agricultural sector is a critical component of the Government's economic and social
strategy. Although agriculture contributes only 16% of Morocco's GDP, it provides employment to
40% of the labor force and generates 30% of export earnings. Food crops are the largest subsector,
contributing about 60% of the gross value of agricultural production. Cereals account for nearly 80%
of the harvested area and 33 % of the gross value of production.
1.07   Morocco has 28 million ha of agricultural land, of which only 9.2 million ha are cultivable;
half of this area receives sufficient but inconsistent rainfall. Irrigation is practiced throughout the
country and the 1.3 million ha (500,000 ha LSI and 800,000 SMSI) now irrigated cover about 80% of
the potentially irrigable area. Moroccan agriculture is dualistic. Its relatively prosperous areas use
modem technology to produce food, industrial and export crops while poorer areas practice traditional
agriculture in which cereals and pulses dominate.
1.08   While agricultural growth was slow in the 1970s, averaging 2.4% p.a. in real terms, it rose to
an average 8.2% annual real rate between 1981 and 1991 despite several drought years. This reflects
the growing impact of irrigation, good rainfall in the non-drought years, the uptake of improved
technology and improved producer prices for cereals. This growth in output has been accompanied
by increases in agricultural exports (3.2% p.a. in real terms between 1981 and 1991) and reductions
in food imports which fell steadily from 17% of total imports in 1984 to 8.6% in 1991. Public
investment in agriculture is channeled through the Ministry of Agriculture and Agricultural
Development (MAMVA), accounting for 16% of total public investment. About 55% of public
agricultural investment was allocated to irrigation, mainly LSI (excluding dams). Although public
investment fell in real terms by 3.2% p.a. between 1981 and 1991, total investment in the sector
(public and private) grew by an average of 4.4% indicating the extraordinary performance of private
sector investments.



-3 -
Government Objectives and Strategy
1.09   The Government's objectives in the early 1980s were shaped by the urgent economic
circumstances in which it found itself. Faced with increasing economic disequilibria in the internal
and external accounts, the Government sought to: (i) reduce fiscal and balance of payments deficits;
and (ii) increase productivity by reforming the underlying structure of key economic and social
sectors. In 1984, as part of its adjustment strategy, the Government launched the Medium-Term
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (MTASAP) to liberalize agriculture and food prices, reduce
subsidies and restructure public expenditure in the sector. MTASAP has been largely implemented in
the area of global sectoral policies. However, further deepening and strengthening of reforms are
needed. The Government has also initiated a long-term program to restructure public enterprises
across the economy, including in the agricultural sector, that is being followed by a comprehensive
privatization program.
1.10   Despite the achievements of the MTASAP, challenges remain. The ability of farmers to
respond to changing circumstances is weak due to limited information about technical options, lack of
capital and poor access to support services. An ability to adapt to new conditions will be necessary as
Morocco faces integration into the EC. Furthermore, the quality of the natural resource base is
deteriorating and water resources are becoming scarce; development efforts need to focus on making
better use of natural resources, particularly water since shortages by the early 2000s threaten to
hamper further development.
1.11   In order to address these challenges, the Government's strategy for the agricultural sector
includes: (i) increasing sector efficiency, flexibility and growth by raising productivity, expanding the
ability of farmers to respond to changing markets and reducing risk; (ii) assuring environmental
protection by maintaining, protecting and developing the natural resource base; (iii) reducing poverty
by expanding income generating opportunities in rural areas; and (iv) redefining the role of
Government by increased reliance on the private sector and strengthened public administration
through greater accountability, decentralization and increased efficiency. In support of these
objectives, Government would: (a) continue the program of deregulation and liberalization of
domestic markets; (b) reduce and diversify risks in the sector through promoting more effective use of
irrigation, improved crop varieties etc.; (c) enhance farmer responsiveness to changing conditions
through loosening restrictions on cropping patterns and greater access to services; (d) increase private
investment through further trade and market liberalization; (e) encourage more rational use of water
and other natural resources; and (f) select public investments against more demanding economic and
environmental criteria.
1.12   The proposed project is in conformity with this strategy as it would: (i) assist farmers to raise
productivity and diversify their cropping, (ii) support a more efficient use of water, fertilizer and crop
protection chemicals, (iii) raise the earning potential of small farms, and (iv) rationalize ORMVAs'
agricultural services while promoting farmers' organizations to take on development responsibilities.



C. Bank Support for Moroccan Agriculture
Lending Program
1.13   Bank Group lending to Morocco began in 1965. To date, 103 loans and credits have been
made totalling US$6,025 million. In agriculture, 29 loans and credits have been made totalling
US$1,770 million, or 29% of total lending. Twenty-two of these projects have been completed and
seven are being implemented. These include eight irrigation projects, Sidi Slimane (FY65), Sebou
(FY70), Souss Groundwater (FY75), Doukkala I (FY76), and II (FY77), Small & Medium Scale
Irrigation I (FY83), all completed, Small & Medium Scale Irrigation II (FY88), Large Scale Irrigation
Improvement Project I (FY86) and II (FY93); eight agricultural credit projects (FY66, FY73, FY77,
FY79, FY84, FY86 all completed, FY89 and FY94), five rainfed agricultural development projects in
Meknes (FY75), Loukkos (FY80), Fes-Karia-Tissa (FY79), Middle Atlas (FY82) and Oulmes
Rommani (FY83) all completed; an agro-industrial and flood control project, Sebou II (FY74
completed); a vegetable and marketing project (FY80 completed); two forestry projects (FY82
completed and FY90); an agricultural research and extension project (FY 89); two agricultural sector
adjustment loans (FY86 & FY88, both completed); and an agricultural sector investment loan (FY
91).
Project Performance
1.14 Bank-financed projects in agriculture have largely been successful. Performance of irrigation
projects has been satisfactory although problems of land distribution and organizational delays in
construction and in procurement of irrigation equipment need to be overcome. The Project
Performance Audit Report (PPAR) for the Sebou I Project (Loan 643-MOR) stresses the project's
success in institution building and in contributing to increasing crop production. The PPAR of Sebou
11 (Loan 1018-MOR) notes that the project was successful in introducing commercial sugarcane
production and processing but stresses the vulnerability of investments in commodities like sugar
which are subject to wide price fluctuations. An OED Impact Evaluation Report for Doukkala I and
11 projects (Loans 1211- and 1416-MOR) concluded that the projects complemented well
Government's objectives of investing in large scale irrigation to enhance domestic food self-
sufficiency, boost export earnings and expand rural employment opportunities. The PPAR of the
Souss Groundwater Project (Loan 1123-MOR) stresses the successful private land consolidation and
public land distribution and cooperatives' establishment but highlights the neglect of maintenance due
to inadequate funding and staff. This problem has been addressed by the Large Scale Irrigation
Improvement Project (Loan 2656-MOR), which began a process of making the LSI subsector more
efficient, cost-effective and sustainable. The project has been successful in rehabilitating
infrastructure, increasing water charge collection rates and beginning the disengagement of
commercial activities to the private sector. While the project demonstrated the strong technical
capacity of the ORMVAs as executing agencies, it also showed that institutional weaknesses were
deeper and more widespread than anticipated. Improvements in management and institutional
arrangements have been slower than expected but are being continued under the second irrigation
project.



1.15   Performance of the five agricultural credit projects has been good and the PPARs stress the
contribution made to the country's agricultural development by the successful expansion of credit to
small farmers. In the rainfed sector, the rural development projects results have been mixed. The
first project (Meknes, Credit 555-MOR) experienced considerable delays due to land redistribution
problems, insufficient project preparation, optimistic implementation targets and management
inexperience. The following four projects, Fes-Karia-Tissa, Loukkos, Middle Atlas and Oulmes
Rommani (Loans 1602, 1848, 2082 and 2217-MOR) were designed to minimize such organizational
and management problems and were concluded satisfactorily except that the completion dates were
considerably extended due to delays arising from the general financial crisis which Morocco
experienced in the 1980s. Technically the implementation of first forestry project, Gharb-Mamora
(Loan 21 10-MOR), was successful but it also suffered delays due to budgetary shortfalls arising from
the financial crisis.
1.16   Implementation of the agricultural research and extension project (Loan 3036-MOR) is
proceeding satisfactorily although disbursements have been delayed by budget shortfalls and the time
taken to effect certain institutional changes. The project, which covers primarily the rainfed areas,
also includes financing for testing extension approaches in the irrigated areas (19 pilot Extension
Centers in six ORMVA are covered). This followed the creation of an agricultural extension service
in the ORMVAs as part of the institutional changes implemented under the first Large Scale Irrigation
Improvement Project.
Lessons Learned
1.17   The main lessons learned in support of irrigation development over 28 years as well as from
more recent experience in the support for agricultural research and extension services are the need for
a better organization of services, for a more participatory approach in formulating programs, for
raising farm incomes, for recognizing budgetary restrictions in implementation and for project
simplification. The proposed project has taken into account these lessons. First, the reorganization
of agricultural services in the ORMVA (so as to make best use of the scarce human resources
available in the field) would be carried out prior to further investments. Thus, key steps in the
reorganization of four ORMVAs to be implemented during the start-up of LSII2 were completed prior
to negotiations of the proposed project (para. 4.05), while activities in the five other ORMVAs would
be limited to studies and training until they are also reorganized. Second, extension would not be
operated as a top-down purveyor of messages to a recipient farming population; rather it would focus
on identifying the real needs. A thorough diagnosis of farmers' needs would be conducted prior to
planning research and extension programs (para. 3.13). Third, to enable farmers to meet the rising
cost of water and for the state to obtain a satisfactory return on the investments in LSI, field
efficiencies would be increased and crops diversified in intensifying agriculture (para. 3.09). Fourth,
given budget restrictions, the continued divestiture of services towards the private sector should be
pursued. This is also in the interests of developing responsive services, which is one of the objectives
of the component for the promotion of farmers' organizations (para. 3.35). Finally, as experience
with LSII1 showed the need for simplification, support for agricultural services would be provided
under a separate project from LSII2, as is being done under the proposed project (para. 3.02).



-6-
II. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION AND SERVICES IN THE IRRIGATED AREAS
A. The Irrigated Areas
2.01   Background. Morocco's farmers have traditionally used irrigation to compensate for low and
inconsistent rainfall, bringing 800,000 ha under small scale systems. Since the 1960s, Morocco has
made modern, large scale irrigation (LSI) the centerpiece of its agricultural development and has
rapidly built or modernized nearly 500,000 ha. In addition to boosting food production, this strategy
has also increased rural employment, promoted agroindustry and helped stabilize domestic production.
It has also raised productivity significantly by bringing modern agriculture to more than 100,000
poor, small farm families, and, in several areas, has slowed the flow of people from rural to urban
areas while protecting semi-arid land from overgrazing. In the large scale irrigated areas, about
158,000 farms benefit from irrigation; another 330,000 farms with more traditional irrigation systems
or rainfed farming are in the ORMVA's territory of responsibilities.
2.02  Institutional Framework. The LSI subsector involves a combination of Government bodies
and public enterprises at central and regional levels, private farmers, input suppliers and processors.
The institutional and legal framework for LSI was established in the late 1960s on a strongly
centralized and government-dominated basis, but, since the mid-1980s, has moved toward
decentralization and state divestiture.
2.03   MAMVA plays a pivotal role in the LSI subsector. It has full responsibility for managing
and overseeing construction, for operating irrigation facilities and for supervising agricultural research
and development. MAMVA has delegated operational responsibility for the LSI systems and the
provision of farmers with agricultural support services to the nine ORMVAs2. The legal status of the
ORMVAs is that of administrative public enterprises, placed under MAMVA's technical supervision
and the Ministry of Finance's financial control. The National Bank for Agricultural Credit (CNCA)
has a principal role in delivering rural finance.
2.04   Infrastructure. Morocco's LSI schemes (see map) are comprised of capital-intensive public
investments for hydraulic infrastructure almost entirely based on surface water stored behind dams.
Modern irrigation systems cover 84% of the LSI area, of which 294,000 ha are under surface
irrigation while 114,300 ha benefit from sprinkler irrigation. The remaining 77,500 ha are improved
traditional schemes in the southern oases. In addition to LSI, the territory of the nine ORMVAs
includes a further 311,000 ha in private and traditional irrigation and 1.4 million ha of rainfed land
adjacent to the LSI areas (see annex 1, table 1).
2.05   Divestiture Program. Until the mid-1980s, LSI development was a top-down Government
undertaking: most decisions were taken centrally by MAMVA while the ORMVAs were extensively
involved in commercial activities such as mechanized cultivation services, input supply and veterinary
services. In addition, state-owned firms held processing monopolies. The private sector was
confined to production on farms and output marketing, although parastatals were heavily involved in
purchasing of basic commodities. Under the MTASAP, the ORMVAs have withdrawn from
commercial activities and the private sector's role is rapidly expanding in input supply, in organizing
2/ Doukkala, Gharb, Haouz, Loukkos, Moulouya, Ouarzazate, Souss-Massa, Tadla,
Tafilalet.



- 7 -
produce marketing as well as through grower associations (paras. 2.23-2.29). Domestic marketing
and trade has also been liberalized; price stabilization schemes using variable tariffs are now being
introduced for several major communities.
B. Agricultural Production
2.06   Overview. The LSI schemes are producing well below potential with average crop yields and
cropping intensity still relatively low and efficiency of water-use poor. Several reasons account for
this poor performance: water shortages due to drought and distribution problems arising from the
poor state of the irrigation network, the lack of attention to improved technology and the failure to
develop new markets. Poor water efficiency is the result of inadequate technology, low water charges
and lack of technical knowledge on water management. Land tenure constraints (such as collectively
owned land or land reform cooperatives where farmers did not have individual titles) have also
contributed to limiting increased productivity.
2.07   Land Tenure. Typically, farms in LSI areas are small and privately owned. Some 84% of
farms in the LSI area are 5 ha or smaller, while average farm size is 3.1 ha (annex 1). If the oasis
perimeters (where irrigated farms average 0.9 to 1.5 ha) are excluded, 75% of the farms are 5 ha or
less and 55% smaller than 2 ha. Although numerous, these farms cover only 36% of the cropped
area; 48% of the land is held by farms of 5-20 ha and 24% is in holdings above 20 ha many of which
are state-owned, operated by parastatals, or by farmer cooperatives under ORMVA supervision.
Although the small size of the farm can be seen as an incentive to agricultural intensification, the
continuous fragmentation of the holdings due to the increased pressure of rural population growth is
becoming an obstacle to modernization, exacerbated by traditional forms of collective ownership
("indivision" and "terres collectives"). Private individual farms hold over 70 percent of the land in
the Doukkala, Moulouya and Tadla while in the Gharb, Loukkos and Haouz more than half the land
is held by land reform cooperatives (CRA) and/or traditional collectives. A number of on-going
programs are giving titles to farmers on CRA land and are distributing collective lands.
2.08   Cropped Area. In the LSI area (500,000 ha), Government has promoted a cropping pattern
based on industrial cash crops and intensive animal production in combination with traditional food
crops. However, following the divestiture of ORMVAs' responsibility for managing sugar and cotton
crops, regulations on crop rotations have been modified, revised cropping recommendations have been
issued for each LSI scheme and farmers now have the option to propose an alternative rotation within
the limits of water availability. About one third (420,000 ha) of the solely rainfed land lies in the
Gharb and Loukkos ORMVAs where annual rainfall exceeds 450 mm (the minimum required for
wheat production); the remainder is in the arid zone where cropping opportunities are limited.
2.09  In 1990/91, cereals (mainly bread wheat) were planted on 36% of the area of the seven
modern schemes; industrial crops (sugar beet, sugarcane, cotton, oilseeds) on 20%; food legumes on
6%; forage crops for cattle (milk and meat) on 12%; and vegetables on 12%. Tree crops, mainly
citrus and olive trees, cover 14% of the cultivated area. On the rainfed land in the Gharb and
Loukkos, cereals occupy 60% of the land and in the other areas 80 to 100% of the cropped area.
2.10  Overall cropping intensity averaged 103% in 1986-1991, with the best performance achieved
in Doukkala and Tadla with 125% and above (annex 1). These cropping intensities compare with
potentials of over 100% throughout the LSI area and ranging up to 140% in Doukkala.



- 8 -
2.11   Yields. Crop yields vary widely both within and between ORMVAs due to differences in soil
conditions, farmers' competence and the incentives to invest and produce. Sugar beet yields range
from 62 ton/ha in the Doukkala to 43 ton/ha in the Tadla and only 35 ton/ha in the Gharb and
Moulouya; these yields compare to 80 ton/ha achieved under best practice. Sugarcane yields vary
from 68 ton/ha in the Gharb where soils are good to around 50 ton/ha in the Loukkos and Moulouya
where soils are too light for achieving higher yields. This compares with 70 ton/ha achieved by the
better producers and 100 ton/ha on the research station. Cereal (mainly bread wheat) yields at 3 to 4
ton/ha are 50 percent of potential; however, some farmers in the Doukkala reach over 6 ton/ha.
Average cotton yields range from a low 1.2 ton/ha in Gharb to a more acceptable 2.1 ton/ha in Tadla
and some producers in the Haouz have obtained as much as 4 ton/ha. Citrus production has
fluctuated between 14 and 20 ton/ha over the last five years, with the ceiling reflecting the aging of
the plantations.
2.12   Numbers of livestock have remained more or less stable. The quality of stock has generally
improved through crossing with improved breeds. Total milk production has reached 300 million
liters per year but yields per cow are still relatively low due to poor feeding and hygiene.
2.13   Market Outlets. The ORMVA territory contributes 96% of the country's exports of citrus
and 35% of vegetables. However, quality of fruit and vegetables for export is a problem although in
some areas quality standards are excellent and internationally competitive. Sugar beet and sugarcane
are processed by private and public mills. Cotton is handled by a parastatal purchasing organization
COMAPRA. New crops are being introduced partially driven by increasing contacts and trade with
farmers and importers in the EC and other countries.
2.14   Potential for raising productivity. Realizing the potential for increased farm incomes and
productivity in the LSI areas will require action on three fronts. First, better and more economic use
will need to be made of the available water supply. Good potential to improve on the present
performance exists through rehabilitating and modernizing the infrastructure and through introducing
improved field irrigation practices (actions are supported by LSII2). Second, the land tenure
constraints, for which legislation will be supported by the planned ASIL2, will need to be resolved
over time. In the short run, limited potential exists for raising productivity on the area occupied by
many of the very small farms, many of which are run on a part-time basis (these farmers obtain work
on other farms, or in the towns, to supplement their income). Because many of the larger farms
already largely use the latest technology, improvements in productivity would necessarily be moderate
on these farms. Nonetheless, between these two extremes, the full-time farmers on small to medium
sized farms (occupying nearly 50 percent of the surface area) could considerably raise productivity
and better link themselves to modem agro-industry. Third, much remains to be done on all farms to
adapt and diffuse improved technology for better use of water, better management of soil and pests
and develop new market outlets.
C. Agricultural Services
Agricultural Research
2.15  Institutions. Agricultural research is carried out by several public, para-public and private
institutions. The public agencies are the National Institute for Agricultural Research (INRA), (the
most important and the only one devoted solely to research) and the universities. Of the universities,



- 9 -
the Agricultural and Veterinary Institute (IAV) in Rabat and the National Agricultural School in
Meknes (ENA) have a high research capacity used primarily in support of their teaching. IAV has a
good potential for livestock research and for socio-economic aspects, while ENA has a strong unit for
training extension staff.
2.16   A number of state-owned companies, such as SODEA (citrus, vines and fruit trees), SNDE
Oivestock), COMPARA (oilseeds) and the Sugar companies, do some adaptive research. The private
sector has been responsible for the advances in vegetable production together with the Moroccan
Company for Agricultural Services (SASMA), which has been funded by a retention on exports. For
citrus, the Royal Farms and SODEA are doing adaptive work and INRA is responsible for
maintaining planting material nurseries. Private sector research is also expanding in the irrigated
areas. In addition, some sugar grower associations have started adaptive work on varieties and
fertilizer practices.
2.17   The ORMVAs have a responsibility for adaptive research that complements the research of
the public and para-public institutions and demonstrates the potential of improved technology to
farmers. Unfortunately, little progress has been achieved in this adaptive research. Under LSII1,
efforts were made to develop a program coordinated by the Education, Research and Development
Department (DERD) of MAMVA and by a national level committee, the "Conseil National de
l'Orientation de la Recherche Agricole" (CNORA). Regional working groups, "Comite Local de
Coordination de la Recherche" (CLCR), on which the profession and a number of research institutes
are represented, were set up and prepared research proposals but financing was not forthcoming to
start field trials.
Agricultural Extension
2.18   National extension services are overseen by the DERD. Its extension division is responsible
for coordinating and planning all extension activities, defining suitable techniques, means and
methodology for extension and organizing staff training. It also has responsibility for overseeing the
land reform cooperatives (CRA). A separate Department for Public Agricultural Enterprises is
responsible for ensuring liaison between MAMVA, the Chambers of Agriculture, professional
associations and farmers' unions.
2.19   The extension field services in the rainfed areas are managed by the 46 Provincial
Departments of Agriculture and 122 Extension Centers (CT). In the irrigated areas, the ORMVAs
are responsible for services operated through 156 Development Centers, "Centre de Mise en Valeur"
(CMV). Overall, these services tend not to be responsive to farmers' needs; operating efficiency is
also low.
Agricultural Support Services of the ORMVA
2.20   ORMVAs' support to farmers is provided through three services: crop production (SPV),
livestock (SPA) and extension (SVOP). The crop production service which, prior to divestiture, was
primarily responsible for contracting and monitoring industrial crops, handles adaptive research and is
the main source of technical expertise on crops. The livestock service handles technical advice, the
establishment of new milk collection centers and the development of services such as artificial
insemination in collaboration with the livestock breeders associations. The extension service, which
was established under LSIII, works through extension agents located in the CMV. Under LSII1,



- 10-
pilot activities providing a more intensive form of extension through working with farmer groups have
been successfully launched in one or two CMV per ORMVA. The provision of professional farm
management advice has been started in the Loukkos ORMVA under a KFW funded project.
2.21   The ORMVAs' agricultural extension has suffered from lack of coordination between services
and a serious overstaffing in lower grades. Staff numbers in the three services of the nine ORMVAs
total 4170, of which 2,170, many of whom are redundant, are in low non-technical grades. These
problems have been addressed in a LSII1 management study on three ORMVAs (Doukkala, Gharb
and Tadla) which would (a) bring together the three services under a director of agriculture and (b)
decentralize services to the sub-division level. This study reviewed staffing and made a 'skills gap'
analysis prior to preparing an estimate of training needs. Under LSI12, four ORMVAs are
undergoing reorganization (ORMVAs of Doukkala, Gharb, Tadla and Loukkos), followed by the
other five ORMVAs once management studies have been completed. This reorganization and
introduction of greater accountability should provide a suitable environment for the transformation of
staff attitudes needed to upgrade the services. However, overstaffing and inadequate remuneration
need also to be tackled. The proposed project includes provision (para 3.26) for updating the 1990
"skills gap' analysis and a staffing plan (which would be expected to include a reduction in total
numbers but an increase in graduate posts). The need for changes to the remuneration system to
match the new approach to management applies to all ORMVA services; the Management
Improvement Plans under LS112 being negotiated between two ORMVAs and the Government contain
provision for dealing with these institutional issues. Similar plans will be negotiated with the other
seven ORMVAs by the end of 1995.
Bank Support for Agricultural Services
2.22   Bank support for agricultural research and extension services commenced in the late 1970s
with adaptive research and improved extension management supported through a number of area
development projects. Subsequently, a national Agricultural Research and Extension Project (Ln.
3036-MOR) was launched in 1989 to strengthen INRA and test extension approaches in the rainfed
areas as well as in 19 pilot CMVs in six ORMVA. Lessons learned from the pilot actions in this
project have been taken into account in preparing the proposed project.
D. Increasing Role for the Private Sector
2.23   Overview. A relatively well-organized private sector has grown up around the packing and
export of citrus and vegetable crops. On the other hand, many of the farmer cooperatives set up with
government assistance in the 1970s' remain dependent on the assistance of the ORMVAs. However,
more recently, Government's divestiture of responsibility for sugar and cotton crops has led to some
encouraging development of grower associations. The Government's policy is to encourage the
development of farmer organizations embracing all farmers, as a vehicle for increasingly involving
them in improving agricultural productivity and water use.
a/ A separate study for the reorganization of the Loukkos ORMVA was carried out with KFW
funding.



- 11 -
2.24   Farmer Cooperatives. The majority of the existing cooperatives were created at the initiative
of the Government to facilitate the distribution of certain lands "Cooperatives de la Reforme Agraire"
(CRA), to simplify milk collection "Centre de Collecte du Lait" (CCL) or to organize joint ownership
of machinery "Cooperatives d'Utilisation de Materiel en Commun" (CUMA). These cooperatives
have received assistance from the ORMVA in personnel (most of the Directors of the CRA are paid
by the ORMVA) and/or equipment (the initial milk collection tank is generally provided by the
ORMVA). This assistance is beginning to pay off in the case of the milk collection centers where the
operating costs are covered by a retention on the price paid for milk delivered. However, for both
the milk collection centers and the CRA, the ORMVAs continue to fund some staff and milk
collection tanks. Agreement on phasing out support for milk collection over three years is included
under the planned ASIL2.
2.25   Producer Associations. The producer associations, which were originally developed to
defend farmers' interests at the time of independence, are beginning to take on a role in technology
transfer. The best developed associations operating in the irrigated areas are the cattle breeders and
producer associations for citrus, vegetable and sugar crops. For example, the cattle breeders are
taking over milk recording and artificial insemination (Gharb and Doukkala), while the sugar
producers association in the Tadla has become involved in conducting seed and fertilizer trials.
Operations are financed by a retention on either production (in the case of milk and sugar) or on
exports (citrus and vegetables).
2.26   Another particularly successful example of producer associations is SASMA (para. 2.16) to
undertake technology development and transfer on fruits and vegetables. Financed by a tax on
exports, the associations played a key role in promoting the greenhouse production of early vegetables
(which was also supported by a Bank financed project in the early 1980s). With the liberalization of
exports, it lost a major part of its funding and many staff moved into private production and advisory
services. MAMVA has contracted one such service to continue advisory work and adaptive research.
2.27   Chambers of Agriculture. The Government has recently launched a pilot program to develop
the role the Chambers of Agriculture (CA) in the management of agricultural services and transfer of
technology. A number of the ORMVAs have transferred some staff and vehicles to the Chambers of
Agriculture for carrying out specified extension programs. Also, under a cooperation agreement with
France, Chambers of Agriculture in three of the ORMVAs have entered into twinning arrangements
with French Chambers of Agriculture. While the CAs could play an important role in aiding the
development of the profession as well as directly taking on responsibility for certain services, the
present statute and lack of resources limit their options. The statute needs modification to open up
membership to farmer associations so as to obtain a better representation of the profession, while
funding options, which MAMVA is discussing with the Ministry of Finance, need to be reviewed and
actions taken.
2.28   Water Users Associations. Formalized under legislation issued in 1990/91 and supported by
LSII2, water user associations are being created to take on more responsibility for the operation and
maintenance of the network at the field level. The proposed project would develop the role of these
associations in technology transfer.
2.29   The Processing Industry. The sugar factories and cotton ginneries are also beginning to
get more involved in adaptive research and advisory work. This involvement is expected to increase
and would be encouraged by the project. The fruit and vegetable packing stations also are



- 12 -
providing a point around which to organize and better inform farmers. The milk collection centers
are already used by the livestock services and cattle breeders association as a point for working with
farmers. The cattle breeders association is expected to play a major role in provision of services in
the future.
E. Strategy for Intervention
2.30   The Government's strategy already initiated in the divestiture program (para. 2.05) and the
pilot program with the Chambers of Agriculture (para. 2.27) is to encourage the take-over of
commercial services by the private sector and increase the efficiency of the agricultural services that
would remain in the public domain. During the next ten to fifteen years, there will be a shift of
responsibilities to, and increased cost-sharing with farmers and associations. Already, farmers are
organizing around the industrial crops and livestock (para. 2.25) and this trend can be expected to
continue (see annex 5 and working paper 4 for an analysis of each organization's role). The policy
measures to support this shift would include the necessary legal framework for private sector
organizations, cost-sharing for certain individual advisory services and continued encouragement to
cooperative development. The proposed project, by promoting a participatory approach to the
planning and distribution of tasks, would support these developments and would set goals for
privatization of services.
III. THIE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Rationale
3.01   The project is part of the Government's strategy (which the Bank fully supports) to develop a
more productive and flexible agricultural sector that can respond to the opening of the Moroccan
economy and trade opportunities with the EC and other potential markets. The project would
complement the reforms and investment programs under the second Large Scale Irrigation Project and
raise returns to investments in irrigation infrastructure. The proposed project, which incorporates
important lessons learned from previous Bank-financed projects in the sector, would provide
responsive extension and research services in the ORMVAs' irrigated and adjacent rainfed areas. It
would aim to improve the efficiency of LSI farming operations through the transfer of technology and
support to service cooperatives and professional organizations. In parallel, LSII2 covers network
rehabilitation, efficiency and sustainability of the public utility function of the ORMVAs, on-farm
water management techniques and environmental protection. An on-going Agricultural Sector
Investment Loan supports other agricultural investments and the improvement of public resource
management. A planned (FY94) Second Sector Investment Loan would continue this support,
3.02   In the early stages of preparation, the LS112 project included components for agricultural
services; subsequently, following experience under LSIII, it was decided to separate project assistance
for agricultural services from that for irrigation hardware and management for a number of reasons.
First, the two projects will be working with different parts of the ORMVA organization, each
requiring specialized assistance. LSII2 will assist the ORMVAs' construction and irrigation
management divisions covering their operations as utilities managing the supply of water and
recovering costs. The proposed project would assist the ORMVAs' agricultural department
dispensing specific agriculture and water management advice while applying research results.
Second, seven different MAMVA departments are involved in the proposed Services Project and their



- 13 -
coordination is beyond the capacity of the LSII unit in the Department for Rural Equipment (DER).
Third, experience under LSIII has convinced both the Bank and Government that each ORMVA has
to be supervised separately and that coordination of the nine ORMVA and various MAMVA
departments is outside the control of DER. Finally, the importance of the project, which will provide
the catalytic investment required to raise the return on the heavy sunk costs in irrigation, justifies the
additional resources and focus of a separate project.
3.03   The proposed project was prepared by the ORMVA and central MAMVA departments with
the help of the FAO/Bank Cooperative Program. The project was appraised in February 1993.
Negotiations took place in Washington in November 1993.
B. Project Objectives and Summary Description
Project Objectives
3.04   The project's major objectives would be to:
(a)   raise agricultural production and farmers' incomes in the irrigated and adjacent rainfed
areas - with special efforts to reach women who are mainly responsible for livestock
management;
(b)   improve the organization and operating efficiency of the ORMVAs' agricultural
services;
(c)    promote commodity and service orientated farmer organizations to take an increasing
share of development responsibilities; and
(d)   involve the university teaching/research staff in field extension and research.
Summary Project Description
3.05   To achieve the above objectives, the project would implement the following five components:
(a)   the transfer of technology to and from farmers in the LSI area including the
strengthening of adaptive research, agricultural extension, womens' programs, with
provision for staff training, infrastructure, vehicles and equipment, contracting out
extension and research, technical assistance, and incremental operating costs;
(b)    supporting services, including soils and plant analysis, pest and disease warning
system and testing/demonstration of small equipment, with provision for
infrastructure, vehicles and equipment and incremental operating costs;
(c)    promotion of farmer organizations, with provision for technical assistance, training
and some initial investments;



- 14 -
(d)    monitoring and evaluation of agricultural development in the irrigated and adjacent
rainfed areas with provision for vehicles and equipment and incremental operating
costs; and
(e)   studies for specific components and a review of the development strategy for the
irrigation sector.
3.06   The project would be implemented by the ORMVAs and coordinated through a project
steering committee comprising ORMVAs' representatives and the seven concerned MAMVA
departments: training, research and development, crop production, livestock production, crop
protection, farmer organizations, rural engineering and planning.
C. Detailed Features
1. Transfer of Technology
3.07   The objective of this technology component is to increase the productivity and incomes of
some quarter million farmers with land in the LSI schemes (about 63% of the farmers) and adjacent
purely rainfed land (about 37%) in the better rainfall areas. The component, which would cost
US$24.9 million (72% of total costs), comprises support to four activities: (i) adaptive research; (ii)
agricultural extension; (iii) womens' program; and (iv) staff and farmer training.
3.08   Adaptive Research (Annex 2, Working Paper 1) [US$9.0 million, 26% of total costs]. This
sub-component would provide the means for testing and demonstrating improved crop and livestock
technology for the benefit of farmers in the irrigation perimeters. The project would support
strengthening the ORMVAs' capacity to execute adaptive research and the contracting out of some
research with the universities, other institutes and private sector agencies.
3.09   The adaptive research program would be confined to testing the adaptability of technology
developed elsewhere (e.g. new varieties and fertilizer recommendations from INRA, chemical
companies' recommendations etc.) to the farming conditions of each region. The program would
include work on improving on-farm water management in collaboration with the irrigation and
drainage technical unit of the Water Management Department in each ORMVA. An initial program
(annex 2 and working paper 1) has been prepared from proposals put together by regional committees
(CLCR) (para. 2.17) and then screened at the center to eliminate duplication between ORMVAs.
This program would be subsequently fine tuned as necessary, once the results of the diagnostic studies
(to be carried out prior to launching the extension program - para. 3.13) are available. The program
would be implemented by the ORMVA, either by their own staff on their research stations and
farmers fields, or by sub-contracting with other agencies: universities, INRA and private sector. The
CLCR which is chaired by the ORMVA and on which farmers are represented, would advise on the
allocation of responsibilities and monitor progress. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
a three-year research program would be finalized by effectiveness and be updated annually by 30
September each year.



- 15 -
3.10   The project would encourage certain regions to take the lead in selected crops. For example,
the Sugarcane Research Center, "Centre Technique de Canne I Sucre" (CTCAS) in the Gharb, which
has recently added work on sugarbeet to its program, would take the lead for the program on sugar
crops, but in close collaboration with the Doukkala for sugarbeet. Work on citrus would be done in
the Souss-Massa, Moulouya and Gharb, olives in the Haouz etc..
3.11   The project would improve the infrastructure of existing research stations "Station
d'Experimentation et de Mise en Valeur" (SEMVA), provide additional field equipment and vehicles,
and finance incremental operating costs (see annex 2, table 1 for stations covered). Equipment would
include that required for measuring soil moisture levels to be used in a program for improving use of
water at the field level and upgrading irrigation agronomy. One new station would be constructed in
the Gharb. The existing research staff of the Crop Production Service (SPV) and Animal Production
Service (SPA) would be strengthened and training provided. The project would provide for 162 man-
months of adaptive research to be contracted out to other agencies.
3.12   Agricultural Extension. (Annex 3, Working Paper 2) [US$14.4 million, 41% of total costs].
In support of the project's objective to increase the income of farm families, this sub-component
would provide farmers in the irrigation perimeters with relevant and timely advice through: (i)
improved participatory diagnosis, planning and implementation with, by and for farmers; (ii)
distribution of extension tasks among the private and public sectors; (iii) improved management of
extension services; (iv) improved research-extension-farmer linkages; (v) the wider dissemination of
information through local and regional radio; (vi) more effective public relations; and (vii) timely
monitoring of activities and impact.
3.13   The project would support diagnostic studies in each ORMVA to determine more clearly the
different farming systems and farmers' problems, to identify possible solutions and to set out the
priorities for different categories of farmers. The studies would be done in two phases: first an aM
inventory would be prepared by the extension agents, and second a diagnostic survey would be
carried out by a multidisciplinary team of public and private extension and research specialists and the
profession. The project would provide the vehicles and equipment necessary to carry out these
studies, and finance contracts for the participation of university and other non-ORMVA staff, field
expenses and technical assistance for the design and execution of studies. Linkages with research and
farmers would be strengthened considerably through this multidisciplinary approach in the field.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that these studies would be completed before the end of
the second year (December 31. 1995) of the project and regularly updated thereafter.
3.14   The project would provide for the improved planning and implementation of extension
services. Following the clearer definition of needs and priorities, objectives would be better
formulated and quantified, the various public and private sector sources of advice would be identified,
responsibilities defined and tasks distributed accordingly. Implementation of ORMVAs' services
would be improved by: clear definition of tasks and staff training, performance-linked incentives,
provision of infrastructure and transport in support of decentralization and more effective use of group
and mass communication (for more details see annex 3). Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that annual extension programs would be prepared by 30 September.
3.15   The project would support the ORMVAs to meet the needs of three different tpes of farmer
client: the mass media approach destined to reach the many small part-time farmers; group extension
working with homogeneous groups of small and medium scale farmers - in developing the group



- 16 -
approach, ORMVA would try to work through, inter alia, the Water User Associations (para.2.28);
and farm management advice destined for the more developed medium and large scale farmers, who
would be selected also for their willingness to share cost and returns data. The latter service
(building on work already underway in the Loukkos) would be extended to a further six ORMVA; the
project would provide the necessary staff training and technical assistance.
3.16  In providing these services, the ORMVA would initially use existing field extension staff and
the technical specialist staff of the SPV and SPA who, under the ORMVA reorganization, are to be
relocated at the sub-division level (para.4.04). These specialists would provide multidisciplinary
support to the field extension agents working with farmer groups as well as the links with research
and would assist farmers seeking advice at the sub-division. In each ORMVA, five to ten staff would
be selected for training as farm management advisors to work with selected farmers.
3.17   The project would also support on-going pilot activities with Chambers of Agriculture (para.
2.27). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that consultants would be recruited by September
30. 1994 to evaluate the results of this support and draw up proposals for future cooperation with the
ORMVAs.
3.18   The project would also provide for more use of regional radio. The project would provide
three ORMVAs (Haouz, Moulouya and Souss-Massa) with training and equipment to produce two
fifteen minute farming programs a week for diffusion by RTM.
3.19   The project would establish improved monitoring of the execution and impact of the
extension services. This would include the formal, quantitative aspects of project inputs, outputs and
effects as well as the more qualitative monthly checking of factors such as: the presence of higher
level staff in the field, farmers' reactions to demonstrations, radio program audience and coherence of
program with extension workplan.
3.20  Total extension staff would be increased from 106 graduates and 224 technicians to 151
graduates and 435 technicians through redeployment and transformation of posts. To enable the
ORMVAs to carry out the above program, the project would provide for the construction of offices
(25) and meeting rooms (19) at sub-division and CMV level. The project would provide for
additional vehicles (83 light cars, 22 vans and 9 minibuses), as well as for demonstration and audio-
visual equipment and small computers. In those ORMVAs where motorcycles are the preferred
means of transport, they would be acquired in place of these vehicles. Some 61 man months of
technical assistance to support the diagnostic and planning process, 14 man months for training in
audio-visual support, and 40 man months to develop a farm management service would be provided.
3.21   Womens' Program. (Annex 4, Working Paper 3) [US$1.5 million, 4 percent of total costs].
The aim of this sub-component would be to provide women, who play an important role in livestock
production and provide much of the family labor on small farms, with timely and relevant advice.
The project would support the necessary studies and diagnosis necessary to deepen the understanding
of womens' role in agriculture. It would also strengthen the ORMVAs' extension services to provide
advice as well as support for small projects that would increase their revenue-earning potential.
3.22   The project would provide for the recruitment of an additional 3 graduates and 30 technicians
bringing the total womens' program staff to 56, or about 6 per ORMVA in total. In three ORMVA
(Ouarzazate, Souss-Massa and Tafilalet), the project would test the possibility of working through



- 17 -
women extension assistants who would be recruited to work in their own villages. A total of 40
assistants would be recruited to be trained in livestock husbandry and some other agricultural skills
and supplied with equipment kits. Following training and a period of supervision, they would be
expected to work as independent operators in their own villages. This follows a successful experience
of a project financed by German aid.
3.23   The project would also provide for small investment projects that have a clear demonstrative
objective. Specifically, the project would cover: (a) in Tafilalet, the expansion of the D'mane sheep
project; (b) in Ouarzazate, the deployment of Draa goats in the southern oases and the setting up of a
cheese-making unit; and (c) feasibility studies in the other seven ORMVAs.
3.24   The initial diagnostic studies would be made as an integral part of the determination of farm
types and needs for the extension services (para. 3.13). Subsequently, the project would provide for
studies necessary to deepen the understanding of womens' issues (para. 3.21), for additional offices,
vehicles, equipment, incremental operating costs and technical assistance for the womens' services.
3.25   Training. (Annex 6, Working Papers 1,2 & 3) [US$2.9 million included within the other
components, 8 % of total costsl. The project would provide initial training to upgrade basic skills,
regular in-service training and selected training abroad. An important objective of the initial program
would be to support staff in making the shift from purveyors of inputs to providers of solid advice on
agriculture. The program would also develop their practical experience - in order to improve their
demonstration of improved technology in the field. Each ORMVA would draw up a training
masterplan on the basis of a skills gap analysis. Training would be carried out in ORMVA facilities,
regional training centers (CREPA) and would also be sub-contracted to the universities and other
training institutes in Morocco.
3.26   The project would provide first for the updating of the skills gap analysis made during the
management studies under LSIll; the initial analysis was done for all nine ORMVA and is the basis
for the on-going staff redeployment program. The implementation schedule for the training program
would be reviewed at negotiations. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the skills gap
analysis would be updated and a revised training program prepared by June 30. 1994.
3.27   As part of this program, extension agents would receive training in farm management and
group work; specialists in the practical aspects of farming and didactics, and supervisors in staff-
management, including motivation, conflict resolution and performance appraisal. About 1500
staffweeks have been foreseen for initial training of all staff in the project objectives, extension
principles, participatory appraisal, working with groups, demonstrations, planning, accounting and
personnel management. Regular in-servi  training would be provided for extension staff (biweekly
for field agents and monthly workshops for specialists). In-service training would be conducted partly
on the ORMVA research stations. Overseas training, including study tours and seminars, would be
provided at the rate of about 20 staffweeks per year. Training for male and female farmers would be
provided for a total of about 600 weeks a year. Farmer groups would also travel within the country
and overseas to visit farmer organizations and see other extension systems.
3.28   The project would also provide for training of crop and livestock production services staff
responsible for the adaptive research program and their role as technical specialists. Training
programs for crop staff would put special emphasis on irrigation agronomy and provision is made for
each ORMVA to send one agronomist for 6 - 12 months training overseas. In addition to the above,



- 18 -
under the Farmers' Organizations (OP) component, the project would provide for the training of
farmer members and OP staff in management, accounting and stock management and other subjects of
organization management.
2. Supporting Services (Annex 2, Working Paper 1) [US$1.9 million, 5% of total costs]
3.29   This component would have two objectives: (i) rationalize the use of fertilizers and pesticides
and reduce the present waste and deleterious effects on the environment and (ii) raise farm
productivity. The project would assist the ORMVAs to provide: (a) soils and plant analysis; (b) agro-
meteorological information; (c) better pest management; and (d) introduction and demonstration of
small scale machinery. As farmer awareness and demand for these services builds up, the private
sector (farmer organizations and/or commercial laboratories) would be expected to take over.
3.30   (a) Soils and plant analysis. At present, apart from a few farmers using the Gharb
ORMVA's Kenitra laboratory, a private laboratory in Casablanca or able to send samples to France,
soils analyses to check nutrient levels and optimize fertilizer applications, are not used. Trials work
has shown that there is a potential to economize on the standard fertilizer recommendations reducing
costs and damage to the environment; but this will require the availability of soils testing facilities and
field extension staff trained in field sampling and interpretation of the results. To date, the soils
analysis work done by the ORMVAs in their own laboratories or contracted out, has been confined to
planning the construction of new irrigated areas.
3.31   The project would provide the additional equipment and staff training required to complete the
equipment of the ORMVAs' existing laboratories and to adapt and equip an existing building (in
Tadla) to provide a soils analysis service for farmers where the services of private laboratories are not
available. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that analyses would be charged at commercial
rates and that separate accounts would be kent. Farmers using these services would receive the 50 %
rebate on charges which is provided by MAMVA's Agricultural Development Fund' to encourage the
use of soils' analysis.
3.32  (b) Agro-meteorology. The availability of good and timely agro-meteorological data is
required for effective irrigation scheduling (as part of the program for raising the efficiency of water
use) as well as an input into prediction of pest and disease attacks and greenhouse management. The
project would provide for the equipping or improvement of equipment on selected ORMVA research
stations, for the training of staff and for the regular diffusion of the information.
3.33   (c) Pest Management. Each ORMVA would establish a convention with DPVCTRF (the
MAMVA department responsible for crop protection) to reenforce the warning network for pest
infection and to assist with introducing integrated pest management (1PM) practices. The IPM
practices to be applied would follow three basic principles : the management wherever possible of
pest populations at below economically damaging levels (rather than complete eradication), the use to
the extent possible of non-chemical measures and the selective application of pesticides when they
have to used. DPVCTRF (which is already propagating some important elements of IPM including
pest scouting and the judicious use of modern, high concentration, low application rate pesticides with
A/ The Agricultural Development Fund provides grants of 20% - 50 % of cost to encourage farmers to
take-up new, more efficient technologies.



- 19 -
quick biodegradability) would provide the technical assistance to work with and train ORMVA
personnel in the identification of pest outbreaks and application of IPM practices. This work would
be supported by the adaptive research program (para. 3.08), which would include work on pest
control, and by collaborative work with INRA on pest ecology. Training programs for extension staff
(para. 3.25) would include the application of IPM practices. The project would provide additional
vehicles (one for each of the 13 inspection zones concerned) for DPVCTRF to facilitate collaboration
with the ORMVAs. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that each ORMVA would establish
a convention with DPVCTRF by December 31. 1994.
3.34   (d) Small farm equipment. Under the project, the ORMVAs would work with local
machinery suppliers to test and demonstrate the introduction of small scale farm machinery required
to improve productivity. The project would include first a study to make an inventory of existing use
and determine the main needs; subsequently, it would work with the universities, research institutes
and the machinery suppliers to encourage the introduction and demonstration of appropriate tools.
3. Promotion of Farmer Organizations (Annex 5, Working Paper 4) [US$5.6 million, 16% of total
costs]
3.35  In the context of the liberalization of the economy and divestiture by the ORMVA, the project
would promote the emergence of efficient, viable and autonomous farmer organizations
"Organisations Professionnelles" (OP)5 at the key points in the production-processing-marketing chain
of major food products, through: (i) changes to the legal and regulatory framework; and (ii) a pilot
technical assistance/investment component.
3.36  In respect of the legal and regulatory framework, there are three areas in which progress is a
prerequisite for the development of viable farmer-owned organizations: (a) the application of the 1984
Cooperative Charter to encourage the development of competitive and viable cooperatives; (b) the
preparation of a specific statute for farmer associations to enable them to develop a financial base; and
(c) for the Chambers of Agriculture to (i) give the farmer organizations the possibility to be
represented and (ii) provide financial resources (para.2.27). First, the review and application of the
Cooperative Charter is expected to be a subject in the dialogue between the Bank and Government on
the Private Sector Development operations and the Agro-Industry sector review and the preparation of
a subsequent project, which is likely to proceed in parallel with the implementation of the proposed
project. Second, in respect of the statute for the farmer associations, the project would provide funds
for studies required to prepare a revised statute. Finally, for the Chambers of Agriculture, which, if
properly managed and funded, could take responsibility for certain extension services, the project
would press for action on representation and funding. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that proposals for appropriate funding of the Chambers of Agriculture be reviewed with the Bank by
December 31. 1994. and a revised statute for the farmer associations prepared by June 30. 1995.
3.37   The project would aim to promote a small number of OP, particularly to concentrate the
supply of selected primary livestock (milk), and crop (fruit and vegetables and sugar crops) produce.
The objective would be to encourage medium and small economically viable farmers capable of
s/ For the purposes of this project Farmer Organizations are defined as any group of agricultural
producers, whatever its legal structure (Association, Chamber of agriculture, Cooperative,
commercial company, or de facto grouping).



- 20 -
integrating in the food chain. Success would be measured by the extent to which they were
sufficiently active, financially viable and autonomous within five years. The project would:
(i) support planning (regional diagnosis and preparation of an action plan) providing assistance
from specialized consultants, study visits to other countries and workshops. A regional task
force would be set up composed of representatives of the profession, the ORMVAs and
private sector agro-industries, who, assisted by consultants, would prepare an annual plan for
the ORMVAs' support to the development of farmer organizations. The plan would determine
the priority sub-sectors, set objectives and fix the technical and financial support to be
provided. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the task force would be set up
by December 31. 1994. with a composition acceptable to the Government and the Bank;
(ii) strengthen selected OPs with assistance to be provided in the establishment process, in the
evaluation of investment proposals, in developing management procedures, in providing
training for OP members and staff and in lightening state intervention. Work with farmer
organizations would be on the basis of contracts to be drawn up between the ORMVA and the
organization;
(iii) provide investment assistance to OPs for projects designed to test innovative technology
or organizations. Investment assistance would comply with agreements expected to be
reached under the planned ASIL2 on the gradual elimination of government assistance to milk
collection cooperatives and artificial insemination operations;
(iv) support staff training and incremental operating costs for the ORMVA units working with
the farmer organizations; and
(v) provide some 90 months of consultants to work with the regional task forces and farmers'
organizations and 15 months per ORMVA for feasibility studies of potential projects requested
by the OPs.
3.38   The project would also provide for the disengagement of the ORMVAs from the management
of the Land Reform Cooperatives to reduce ORMVAs' costs (paras. 2.07 & 2.24). Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the ORMVAs would draw up a program by December 31. 1995. for
the take-over by the cooperatives of ORMVA funded directors by the end of the project.
4. Monitoring & Evaluation of Agricultural Development in the Irrigated Areas
(Annex 9) [US$1.4 million, 4% total costs]
3.39   The project would support the establishment of a system for the monitoring and evaluation of
agricultural development in the irrigated areas. Each of the ORMVAs would select a sample of farms
on which progress would be monitored during the course of the project. The data to be collected
would provide the basis for a better understanding of the farming systems as well as for the ultimate
evaluation of project impact. The project would provide the necessary vehicles, equipment and
incremental operating costs.



- 21 -
5. Studies [US$0.7 million, 2% of total costs]
3.40  The project would include funds for studies tied to the execution of components (farm
mechanization and farmer associations) and for product marketing.
6. Project Unit [US$0.2 million]
3.41   The project would also provide vehicles, equipment and operating costs for a small project
unit to be set up in MAMVA's Department for Education, Research and Development (para.4.03).
Project Implementation
3.42   The project would be implemented over five years from January 1994. Implementation of the
investment program would be phased to take account of the timing of the reorganization of
agricultural services in each ORMVA. In the cost estimates summarized below, four ORMVA
(Doukkala, Gharb, Loukkos and Tadla) would have completed their reorganization by end 1993 and
thus be ready to invest from 1994, while the other five (Haouz, Moulouya, Ouarzazate, Souss-Massa
and Tafilalet) would require up to two years to complete the study and implementation of a new
organization. In the case of these five, expenditures in the first two years would be limited to studies
and staff training preparatory to a three-year investment period starting in 1996. Model designs and
cost estimates for housing would follow government norms.
D. Cost Estimates
3.43   Total project costs, including taxes, duties and contingencies, are estimated at DH 312.7
million (US$34.7 million), of which 38%, or US$13.1 million would be foreign exchange. Duties
and taxes are assessed at DH 39.6 million (US$4.4 million) which is equivalent to 13% of total
project costs. Cost estimates are summarized in Table 3.1 and shown in more detail in annex 7 and
in working paper no.5.
3.44   Physical contingencies have been included at 10% on civil works, vehicles and equipment.
Price contingencies have been calculated on the basis of the annual projected inflation rates applied to
local and foreign costs, including physical contingencies as shown in Table 3.2. Price contingencies
equal 14% of base costs.



- 22 -
Table 3.1: Project Cost Summary
DR                             uss
Millip                         Miloo
LOCl   Foi        TarOl       Loc     FoMgP      Tahw    % for.    %baw
echg.     oaf
A. ORMVA
Research & Support Services    49.1    34.6      83.7          5.5      3.9      9.4       41        31
Extension                      82.1    30.1    112.2          9.1       3.3     12.4       27        42
Womens' Services                9.9      1.8     11.7          1.0      0.2      1.2       17         4
Fanner                         13.4    30.0      43.4          1.5      3.3      4.8       69        16
Organizations
Sub-total                     154.5    96.5   251.0           17.1     10.7    27.8        38        94
B. Monitoring and               6.9      3.4     10.3          0.8      0.4      1.2       33         4
Evaluation
C. Studies                      2.3      3.4      5.7          0.2      0.4      0.6       67         2
D. Project Unit                 0.3      0.4      0.7         0.1       0.1      0.2       50         0
Total Base Costs              164.0   103.7   267.7           18.2     11.6    29.8        39       100
Physical Contingencies          3.7      5.0      8.7          0.4      0.5      0.9       56         3
Price Contingencies            27.0      9.3     36.3          3.0      1.0      4.0       25        14
TotalPROJECTCOSTS             194.7   118.0   312.7           21.6     13.1     34.7       38       117
Table 3.2: Price Contingencies
(percent)
1993     1994     1995     1996     1997    1998a/
Local Costs          3.3      4.4      5.4      5.7       5.2      5.3
Foreign Costs        2.8      2.8      2.8      2.8       2.8      2.8
Source: World Bank (Operational Directive 6.50 for foreign contingencies, Country Operations for local)
a/ and thereafter.
E. Financing
3.45    A Bank loan of US$25 million to the Kingdom of Morocco is proposed to finance about 83 %
of total costs net of taxes. This would cover 100% of foreign exchange costs and 70% of local costs
net of taxes. The Government would finance the balance of the local costs. Loan proceeds would be
made available to ORMVAs on a grant basis. Project costs would be shared in the amounts and
proportions shown in Table 3.3.



- 23 -
Table 3.3: Project Financing Plan
Local     Foreign   Total    % of net
project cots
US$ M
Equivalent
World Bank       11.9        13.1   25.0         83
Governenrt        5.3                5.3          17
Net Project      17.2        13.1   30.3         100
Costs
Taxes & Duties    4.4                4.4          15
Total Project    21.6        13.1   34.7         115
Cos
3.46   While no specific cofinancing has been agreed upon at this stage, in three ORMVA other
donors are likely to finance some parts of the agricultural services in parallel to the proposed project.
First, KFW has been financing the development of a farm management advisory service in the
Loukkos and are expected to continue to so do. Second, the EC has been supporting developments in
the Haouz and may include support for agricultural services under its fourth protocol. Finally,
USAID has recently signed an agreement to finance a development program in the Tadla which is
designed to test and promote water-saving techniques and tackle drainage and salinity problems. The
design of the proposed project takes into account these interventions. The Government has also been
advised to seek additional cofinancing for the training and technical assistance program.
F. Procurement
3.47  Implementing Agencies. Procurement would be carried out by the nine ORMVAs,
primarily, and by the DERD to a minor extent. The nine ORMVAs have demonstrated their capacity
to handle procurement matters efficiently during LSII1, while the DERD (extension division) has also
had experience of Bank procurement in the course of the Agricultural Research and Extension
Project. Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.4.



- 24 -
Table 3.4: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Project                              Procurement    Method
Element
ICB          LCB          Other      Total Cost
1. Works                                 1.4                        1.4
1.1 Buildings                         (1.2)                      (1.2)
2. Goods
2.1 Vehicles             2.7                                      2.7
(2.2)                                   (2.2)
2.2 Agric.Equip.          1.3          2.1                        3.4
(1. 0)       (I. 7)        a/           (2.7)
2.3 Other Equip.          1.7          0.7          0.7           3.1
(1.4)        (0.5)        (0.6)         (2.5)
3. Consultants
3.1 Training                                        2.9           2.9
(2.6)        (2.6)
3.2 Tech. Assistance                                5.2           5.2
(5.0)        (5.0)
3.3 Studies                                         2.6           2.6
(2.5)        (2.5)
4. Other                                               b/
4.1 Incre.Oper.Costs                                13.4          13.4
(6.3)        (6.3)
TOTAL                       5.7          4.2          24.8         34.7
(4.6)        (3.4)        (170)         (25.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan. Works and Goods should be procured in
accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Procurement under JERD and IDA Credits (Washington May 1992) and Services should
be procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by world Bank as
Executing Agency (Washington, D.C., August 1981) a/ local shopping; b/materials, vehicle fuel and repairs, field trial inputs,
services for demonstrations and travel allowances for which procurement is carried out efficiently under Loan No. 3036-MOR.
3.48    Civil Works. Contracts for the construction of houses and offices would be awarded through
Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures that are acceptable to the Bank. This would reflect the
generally small size of contracts with an average value of about US$200,000, the scattered nature of the
project civil works, and the experience of Bank-financed projects in Morocco, in particular LSII1.
3.49    Goods.  Contracts for the purchase of vehicles and laboratory, computer and audio-visual
equipment would be awarded by the ORMVAs through International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures, in accordance with Bank guidelines and using the Bank's sample bidding documents.
Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive preference in bid evaluation of 15% or the prevailing



- 25 -
import duty, whichever is less. Contracts for other equipment (mainly agricultural machinery) estimated
to cost less than US$300,000 but more than US$30,000, could be awarded by the ORMVAs under LCB
procedures acceptable to the Bank, as local suppliers represent a wide range of foreign manufacturers and
previous experience shows bidding to be competitive. Procurement of miscellaneous supplies costing less
than US$30,000 equivalent would be made by the ORMVAs and DERD on the basis of local shopping
with quotations from at least three suppliers.
3.50   Consultant Services. Contracts for consultant services estimated to total US$14.4 million would
cover technical assistance and studies (US$11.5 million) and training (US$2.9 million). They would be
procured internationally in accordance with Bank guidelines. Joint ventures between foreign and local
firms would be encouraged under arrangements acceptable to the Bank. It is expected that local
consultants will provide about 50% of the person-month inputs required.
3.51   Contract Review.  All bidding documents and awards of contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$500,000 or more for civil works, and US$300,000 or more for goods would require
the Bank's prior approval. Consultant contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more
would require the Bank's prior approval as would all terms of reference, irrespective of contract amount.
These arrangements would represent prior review by the Bank of about 80% of the total estimated value
of contracts. The other contracts would be subject to random post-review by the Bank after contract
award, in the course of supervision missions.
G. Disbursements
3.52   Disbursement Schedule. It is anticipated that the proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over
eight fiscal years; see Table 3.5 below and annex 8 for the detailed disbursement schedule. The
disbursement profile for agricultural development projects in Morocco is nine years with 78% being
disbursed over seven years, while for irrigation projects implemented by the ORMVA the period is nearer
seven years. In view of LSIIl's confirmation of the ORMVAs' satisfactory implementation capacity for
physical infrastructure and the fact that the project is not expected to suffer the budgetary problems faced
by the earlier agricultural projects, the proposed period is considered realistic. The proposed closing date
of the loan would be June 30, 2000.
Table 3.5: Disbursement schedule
(US$ million)
IBRD   Fiscal  Year
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001
Disbursements
Annual          1.5    1.8    4.6    6.0    5.8    3.2    I.5    0.6
Cumulative             .3      7.9    13.9   19.7   22.9   24.4   25.0
3.53   Disbursement Procedures. Disbursement would be made after receipt of full documentation
except for goods and works provided under contracts valued below US$100,000 equivalent and for
eligible incremental operating costs, for which disbursements would be made against certified Statements
of Expenditures (SOE). The SOE would be certified by the executing agency involved. Supporting



- 26 -
documentation for SOEs would be retained by the implementing agency and would be made available for
inspection during Bank supervision missions and by external auditors. Disbursement categories, amounts
allocated and share of expenditures financed would be as indicated in Table 3.6.
Table 3.6: Disbursement Categories
Category             Amount of  Percentage of Expenditure to be
Loan     Financed
Allocated
(US$
nullion)
Civil Works             1.10     86%
Equipment/Vehicles
(a) Part A             6.40    )100% of foreign expenditures and
(b) Part B             0.14    )65% of local expenditures for items
)procured localy
Training, Technical
Assistance & Studies
(a) Part A             8.40    )100%
(b) Part B             0.90
Incremental Operating   5.60     80% 1994 & 1995, 50% 1996 & 1997,
Cost6                            and 25% thereafter
UnaHocated              2.46
TOTAL                  25.00
3.54   Special Account.  To facilitate implementation, a Special Account would be opened in the
Treasury for the purpose of the project. The Bank would deposit an initial sum of up to US$1.5 million
corresponding to the Bank's share of 3-4 months project needs. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that disbursement operations from the Special Account would be made in accordance with
Bank guidelines and existing arrangements agreed upon by the Bank and MOF.
3.55   Retroactive Financing of up to 10% of the loan amount against payments made for eligible
expenditures before the date of the Loan Agreement but after March 1, 1993, is included to cover actions
already started.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Organization
4.01   Project Coordination.  The project would be implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture
(MAMVA) through the ORMVAs. The Education, Research and Development Department (DERD) has
been designated by MAMVA to coordinate implementation and the intervention of the other concerned
central departments covering Crop Production (DPV), Livestock (DE), Public Agricultural Enterprises
6/ Materials, vehicle fuel and spare parts, field trial inputs, services for demonstrations and travel
allowances.



- 27 -
and Farmer Organizations (DAP), Planning and Economic Affairs (DPAE), Crop Protection (DPVCTRF)
and Rural Engineering (DER) (see organigram, chart 1). A project steering committee would be formed
by representatives of these directorates and the nine ORMVA which would meet twice a year to: (i)
coordinate the LSII2 and IAASP activities; (ii) review the programs every six months; and (iii) monitor
the results. The existing National Project Coordination Committee (CNCP) set up under LSII 1 would
provide for interministerial coordination. CNCP, which meets once a year, is chaired by MAMVA's
secretary general and includes the heads of MAMVA and Ministry of Finance departments involved in
both LSII2 and the proposed project.
4.02 ORMVA Organization. The project would be implemented by the nine ORMVAs following the
new ORMVA organization to be implemented under LSII2. The new organization structure in the
Doukkala, Gharb, Loukkos and Tadla was approved prior to negotiations of LSII2. The principal
innovations compared with the previous organization are the bringing together of the three agricultural
services under one department and the creation of a separate department to handle human resources.
Plans for the reorganization of the other five ORMVA will be prepared and implemented in the course
of LSII2 (para.3.42). The necessary studies are expected to be committed by end 1993 and the proposals
should be available by mid-1995.
4.03   Project Unit. A project unit would be established in DERD to provide a point of coordination
for the services links with MAMVA, to handle the central procurement of consultant services where there
would be technical and economic advantages from grouping demands (e.g. for the diagnostic studies,
para.3. 13) and to act as a point of liaison with the Bank. This unit would be attached to the Director,
DERD. The establishment of the unit and appointment of staff with qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
B. Organization of Agricultural Services
4.04   Agricultural Development Department. Under the reorganization agreed upon for the four
ORMVAs studied to date (Doukkala, Gharb, Loukkos and Tadla), the work of the three existing
agricultural services (SPV, SPA and SVOP) together with a fourth service for development studies
(SEDA) will be coordinated by a Director for Agricultural Development who will report to the Director
of the ORMVA (see chart 2 for proposed organization). In respect of agricultural support services, the
main features of this reorganization are: (a) the coordination of the three existing services (crop
production, livestock and extension) under one director; (b) the merging of the development centers
(CMV) and livestock posts into one agricultural development center (CDA) with increased focus on
agricultural extension; (c) the transfer of staff from headquarters to the sub-division level - target ratio
20% HQ : 80% field sub-division or arrondissement and CDA; (d) the placing of technical specialists
in the sub-divisions; and (e) a reduction in the administrative tasks of extension staff. Also, a human
resources department will be created to handle staff redeployment and training plans. MAMVA's
commitment to the essential features of the reorganization (the appointment of a Director of Agriculture.
the decentralization of services with 80% of staff to be located at the sub-division and extension agents
to be relieved of administrative duties) was obtained during negotiations.



- 28 -
4.05   The setting up of the new organization, the designation of the Directors of Agriculture in each
of the four ORMVA and the finalization of staffing plans for the agricultural services of the four
ORMVA together with provisional staffing plans for the other five ORMVA7 were completed prior to
negotiations. The signature of contracts for carrying out studies on the five ORMVA would be a
condition for effectiveness of the loan. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the conclusions
of these studies (which are scheduled to be completed by mid-1995) would be discussed with the Bank.
4.06   The effectiveness of the new organization would be monitored by each ORMVA who would be
expected to adjust it to their own particular circumstances as necessary. Within two years of the project
start-up and during the mid-term review (para.4. 14) experiences would be shared and the necessary fine
tuning effected. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
4.07   Research. The adaptive research component would be implemented by the Crop and Animal
Production Services (SPV and SPA) in each ORMVA. Proposals for the adaptive research program
would come from the users through the existing regional committees (para.2. 17) on which the profession
and the major research institutes are represented. These proposals would be screened at the center by
an existing committee (CNORA) for which MAMVA's Education, Research and Development
Department provides the secretariat. In each ORMVA, the research program would be coordinated by
the adaptive research unit to be set up in the SEDA (chart 2). One field station (SEMVA) in each
ORMVA would be selected to take the lead in the management of the field research program.
4.08   Agricultural Extension. The agricultural extension component would be implemented by the
ORMVAs' Extension Service (SVOP) with the close support of the SPV and SPA which would provide
much of the specialist technical expertise. The field extension agents would be attached to the CDAs
which are in turn administratively attached to the sub-divisions under the Director of Agriculture.
Technically the extension staff are responsible to their supervisors who depend on the extension unit
within the SVOP. Specialist support would be provided by the technical specialists who will be located
in the technical support units in each sub-division, the type and number of which vary according to
agricultural characteristics of the ORMVA.
4.09   Womens' Services. The women's extension program would be implemented by an existing unit
within the SVOP. The retention of young qualified female staff to work in the more remote areas has
proved difficult in the past and the turnover has been high. The recruitment of village women to act as
a type of "para-extensionist" has been tried in a pilot project funded by GTZ with some success and a
similar approach would be tested in the project.
4.10   Farmers' Organizations. This component would be managed by the DDA in each ORMVA
which would set up a Task Force, made up of ORMVA managers and representatives of the profession,
to handle the strategic aspects of regional analysis and planning. Implementation would be handled by
the Farmers' Organizations (OP) unit (within the extension service) in collaboration with the crop and
animal production services. The task force would be drawn from among the elected representatives of
OP in the region (Cooperatives, Farmers' Associations and other professional organizations), ORMVAs'
managers, product groups, elected members of the Chambers of Agriculture and private banks and agro-
industry. The composition, the nominating process and the chairmanship would be decided locally. This
7/ Haouz, Moulouya, Ouarzazate, Souss-Massa and Tafilalet.



- 29 -
task force would undertake the conceptualization, planning and monitoring of actions to promote the
development of Farmers' Organizations. Specifically it would: (i) elaborate a regional analysis of the
status of OP; (ii) select the priority product lines; (iii) approve the annual technical and financial
intervention program; (iv) propose the transfer of responsibilities from the ORMVA to the OP; (v)
examine individual demands; and (vi) approve contracts between the OP and ORMVA.
4.11    The DDA would implement the technical and financial plan through its three field services: the
OP unit within the extension service would coordinate the interventions and provide training and
management advice, while the crop and livestock production service would provide technical advice.
4.12   Monitoring and Evaluation. Under the new organization, responsibility for monitoring and
evaluation of the services would rest with the SEDA, the fourth service under the Director of Agriculture.
This unit would handle the monitoring of project execution by the three services, the monitoring and
evaluation of results at the farm level and ad hoc studies. The methodology would be developed by four
of the central departments (DPV, DE, DERD and DPAE) concerned on the basis of the consultants'
report which will be available before negotiations.
C. Supervision and Mid-Term Review
4.13   Bank supervision input into key activities is indicated in Annex 11. This is in addition to regular
supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement, correspondence estimated at 2-3 staff-
weeks per year. For the total Project implementation period, supervision needs are estimated at 107 staff-
weeks. The main lines of this supervision were discussed with the Borrower. The project unit would
be responsible for the preparation of semi-annual reports on physical and financial progress in a format
acceptable to the Bank. This unit would also coordinate arrangements for Bank supervision missions and
for providing information required. Mission briefings on arrival and wrap-up meetings will normally be
held with representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture and of Finance. Before departure, the Bank
mission will leave in the field an Aide-Memoire with its conclusions and recommendations.
4.14   The Government and the Bank would carry out a Mid-Term Review of the project at the end of
the second harvest year. The objectives of this review would be to : (i) measure progress with each
component against qualitative and quantitative targets (see annex 9 for indicative list of indices); (ii)
assess the impact of the new organization on the effectiveness of the agricultural services and effect the
necessary fine tuning; (iii) ascertain whether the ORMVAs are carrying out their undertakings and, if not,
what remedies should be exercised; and (iv) determine necessary adjustments to project activities. The
Review would also assess the opportunities for introducing user fees for certain services such as the farm
management advisory service and prepare a schedule for their introduction. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations.
D. Accounts and Audit
4.15   The ORMVAs will establish and maintain separate project-related accounts. Such accounts shall
be maintained in accordance with sound and internationally recognized accounting principles and practices
satisfactory to the Bank. An auditor's opinion and report satisfactory to the Bank on such statements will
be provided within six months of the close of the project year. The auditor's report will include a
statement on the reliability of statement of expenditures as a basis for loan disbursements, on the Special
Account, and on compliance with financial covenants. The foregoing Project accounting and financial



- 30 -
reporting, and auditing arrangements should provide adequate and timely information to the Bank for
supervision of the Project. Assurances to this effect were obtained duriny negotiations.
V. PROJECT IMPACT
A. Project Benefits
5.01   The project would be expected to have a substantial impact on agricultural production in the
irrigated and adjacent rainfed areas complementing the efforts to be made under LSII2 to better manage
the use of water resources. Some 125,000 farm families with land in the areas under modern, large scale
irrigation would benefit directly as would at least a further 75,000 farm families with land in adjacent
rainfed areas. Beneficiaries would include the many small farmers (over 60 percent of farms have less
than 2 ha) on the irrigation schemes and the women who are responsible for much of the livestock
management on irrigated farms. The results of the adaptive research work would also be expected to
provide some spin off to farmers on the 800,000 ha in traditional, small and medium scale irrigation
schemes throughout the country; the majority of these are also small farmers.
5.02   An economic rate or return has not been calculated due to the service and institutional
development nature of the project components. However, where ex-post studies have been attempted in
Latin America, America, Asia and Africa, the returns showed highly positive results in nearly all cases
with economic rates of return ranging from 14% to more than 500%.5 Furthermore, the increase in
growth of total value added in the area under the ORMVA jurisdiction needed to offset the cost increase
arising from the incremental investment and operating costs is only 0.1 % (total value added is estimated
at about 8 billion Dirhams, or US$0.9 billion9). In practice, the impact of the project on growth in
added value would be expected to significantly exceed this level.
5.03   The project would also promote a significant institutional reform of the ORMVA with an eventual
impact on ORMVAs' operating costs through more cost-effective operation and the eventual transfer of
some activities to the farmer organizations and agro-industry. An essential step in the planning of
ORMVAs' extension activities would be an analysis of the capacity of the various public and private
organizations to take on certain tasks with the ORMVA becoming the supplier of last resort. The training
program would also have a wider impact by creating a source of trained staff better able to transfer to
the private sector over time.
B. Impact on Recurrent Costs
5.04   The project would lead to increased activity which would raise the annual operating costs
(including building, vehicle and equipment replacement calculated at 4%, 14% and 12.5%, respectively)
for the agricultural services by about 20% overall, in the short term. In the medium term, this increase
a/    See Birkhauser,D.,R.E.Evenson,and G.Feder. 1988. 7he Economic Impact of Agricultural
Extension: A Review. World Bank Working Paper.
U1    Calculated at 8000 Dh/ha on 800,000 ha of irrigated land under the ORMVAs and 2000
DH/ha on 750,000 ha of rainfed land in the Doukkala, Gharb and Loukkos; the remainder of
the rainfed land receives only low and very variable rainfall.



- 31 -
in costs will be partly offset by the introduction of user fees and the transfer of certain services to the
private sector. Since agriculture has been exonerated from direct taxation to the year 2050, the Treasury
would benefit only from taxes on goods purchased by the project."0
C. Cost Recovery
5.05  Initially, user fees would be applied for specific services such as soils and plant analysis, but it
would be premature to consider charging for extension services in the short term, that is, until the quality
of advice warranted it. While, in the medium term, it would be possible to recover costs on the farm
management advisory service (now being tested in the Loukkos and to be extended to other ORMVA
under the project), extension staff will need considerable training to get them to the level at which farmers
will be prepared to pay for their services. The opportunities for direct cost recovery would be
reconsidered at the time of the Mid-Term Review (para. 4.13). Although the opportunities for direct cost
recovery are limited in the short term, the approach proposed in the extension component (para. 3.14)
to identify those tasks that should be provided by ORMVA and those that are being provided increasingly
by the private sector should keep public service costs to a minimum.
D. Environmental Impact
5.06   The project would assist farmers to make better use of fertilizer and crop protection chemicals
and to use scarce water resources more efficiently. Fertilizer nitrate has been identified as a pollutant
in groundwater in several LSI areas and the introduction of systematic soil testing as proposed by the
project is an essential first step to reducing the present wasteful use of fertilizer. Crop protection
chemicals are also used in a wasteful manner in the country and the project would encourage the adoption
of integrated pest management to make better use of these chemicals. ORMVA extension staff would
be trained with the aid of MAMVA's crop protection department. Monitoring of the impact of these
measures is provided for under LSII2. The project would also provide the essential complement to LSII2
in the more efficient use of water resources. Improved techniques (land levelling and introduction of
water saving techniques in field distribution systems) will be tested by ORMVAs' irrigation field services
in conjunction with the extension services, who will subsequently be responsible for demonstrating and
advising farmers on their uptake.
E. Risks
5.07   The main risks relate to the difficulty in changing the operating practices of nine diversely located
semi-autonomous organizations, to the possibility of farmers' slow adoption of some new technology and
to the Government's capacity to assure continuity of funding. First, the agricultural services of the
ORMVA have, until recently, been responsible primarily for implementing government policy in respect
of sugar and cotton crops and many of them are unaccustomed and poorly trained to take on their new,
advisory role. To minimize this risk, the project provides for the services' reorganization to be
implemented prior to investments, for the skills gap analysis to be up-dated prior to redeploying staff,
and for the considerable training required to lift the technical level (practical as well as theory) of staff,
while technical assistance is included to help develop the new approaches to working with, rather than
10/   A study of taxation indicates that indirect taxation amounted to as much as 19 % of value
added, a sum comparable to other sectors.



- 32 -
in parallel to the private sector. Second, structural problems in land tenure or lack of markets may limit
the uptake of new technology and improvement in farm incomes. The project provides for diagnostic
studies prior to better identify farmers' real constraints and the points at which research should be
focussed. Furthermore, the project will be complemented by actions (such as work on the collective land
problem in the Gharb, the strengthening of security of tenure, etc.) to be supported by forthcoming
projects, namely: the planned ASIL2 on land measures and the Agro-Industry project expected to follow
the recent sector work. Finally, the ORMVA are dependent upon the government budget for maintaining
their agricultural services. Irregular annual provisions and delays in their release each year could lead
to difficulties in maintaining services. However, the funding of agricultural services in the irrigated areas
now forms part of the funding package for the National Irrigation Plan (para. 1.03) to which the
Government gives high priority.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHIED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01   It would be a condition of loan effectiveness that:
(a)   the ORMVAs of Haouz, Moulouya, Ouarzazate, Souss-Massa and Tafilalet sign contracts
for carrying out organizational studies (para. 4.05);
(b)   the ORMVAs finalize the three-year research program (para. 3.09); and
(c)   the Government establish the project unit in DERD and appoint staff with qualifications
and experience acceptable to the Bank (para. 4.03).
6.02   Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government and/or ORMVAs would:
(a)    up-date three-year rolling programs for adaptive research annually by 30 September
(para. 3.09);
(b)    undertake diagnostic studies by the second year of project (para. 3.13);
(c)    prepare annual extension program for year ahead by 30 September (para. 3.14);
(d)   recruit consultants by September 30, 1994, to evaluate program with the Chambers of
Agriculture and prepare proposals for future cooperation (para 3.17);
(e)    update the skills gap analysis, staff redeployment program and prepare revised training
program by September 30, 1994 (para. 3.26);
(f)    make commercial charges for soils analysis and follow separate accounting (para 3.31);
(g)    establish conventions with DPVCTRF for assistance with pest warning and introduce IPM
practices by December 31, 1994 (para. 3.33);



- 33 -
(h)   review funding proposals for Chambers of Agriculture with the Bank by December 31,
1994, and prepare revisions to farmer associations' statute by June 30, 1995 (para. 3.36);
(i)   set up task forces by December 31, 1994, with composition acceptable to Government
and Bank (3.37);
(j)   prepare program for take-over by the CRA of ORMVA funded directors and book-
keepers by June 30, 1995 and complete by the end of the Project (para 3.38);
(k)   prepare conclusions of organization studies on the five ORMVAs and discuss with the
Bank by June 30, 1995 (para. 4.05);
(1)    carry out a study on the introduction of user fees for certain services by December 31,
1995 (para. 4.14); and
(m)   carry out a Mid-Term Review by December 31, 1996 (para. 4.14).
6.03   Based on the above agreements, the proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of
US$25 million to the Kingdom of Morocco for a term of 20 years including a five year grace period.
The project would be expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.



- 34 -
ANNZX I
Page 1 of 6
STAFF APPRAISAL RBPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SZRVICES PROJECT
Aaricultural Production and Potential in the Irriaated Areas
A. The Irriaated Areas
Natural Resources
1.    Morocco's nine LSI perimeters (see map) involve capital-intensive public
investments for hydraulic infrastructure. They are almost entirely based on
surface water stored behind large dams and are located in several different
agro-climatic zones. The perimeters grouped according to the rainfall zone in
which they are located, are as follows:
Rainfall                 LSI perimeters           Rainfed Cropping
Potential
>450 mm              Gharb, Loukkos            Important
250-350 mm               Doukkala, Tadla          Limited
150-300 mm               Haouz, Moulouya,         Limited to
Souss-Massa              Negligible
<150 mm               Ouarzazate, Tafilalet   Oasis agriculture
2.    The Gharb and the Loukkos are located in areas of relatively good
(although highly variable) rainfall where irrigation is required primarily for
summer crops and can be used to advantage for supplementary irrigation at the
start and end of the winter cropping season. Even so, a range of arable crops
can still be grown without irrigation. In the Doukkala and Tadla areas,
rainfed cropping is limited to cereals with widely fluctuating yields. The
remaining five perimeters are located in the arid zone where rainfall is
generally sufficient for barley but which may be grazed off if there is
insufficient moisture for grain production. The Ouarzazate and Tafilalet
perimeters, which lie south of the Atlas mountains, are oases where the
irrigation system is essentially based on improved flood management.
3.    The soils, which have been well studied in the course of designing and
equipping the irrigated areas, vary widely between and within each irrigation
perimeter. These soils offer a variety of cropping possibilities with
limitations in some well-defined areas.   In the Loukkos plateau area, the
soils are light, sandy loams and adaptive research is needed to diversify the
cropping away from sugarcane which is currently grown. In the Gharb, soils
are much heavier with over 50& of the soils requiring careful management; some



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 6
8 are frequently flooded and only suitable for rice. In the Tadla, soils are
good except for about 12' of relatively shallow soils.  In the Doukkala, there
are no significant soils constraints. Poor drainage and salinization are
hazards in some areas (particularly the Tadla, Moulouya and Souss)1. These
problem areas will be monitored by environment studies under LSII2 while
corrective measures are planned by LSII2 and, for the Tadla, by a USAID
assisted project.
4.    Available water resources from the reservoirs has fluctuated widely with
the drought years (e.g. in the Tadla, Beni Moussa where the water available at
the field turn-out fell from 8900 m3/ha to 5200 m3/ha in 1985/86). In some
perimeters farmers have sunk private wells to provide supplementary water but
supplies are not always sufficient to meet the demand for summer cropping.
Also, in some previously irrigable areas (e.g. parts of the Triffa scheme,
Moulouya, and the PTI and Beht schemes in the Gharb) the irrigation network is
so degraded that either they can no longer receive water from the dam, or the
delivery capacity has been reduced. Again, farmers have, where possible, sunk
private wells to provide supplementary irrigation. Water shortages have also
led to a modification of cropping patterns as in the Massa, where the area in
high demanding lucerne has had to be reduced.
5.    The above situation highlights the importance of raising field
efficiencies (currently estimated at 40 - 501) which is a major objective of
LSII2 and the proposed project.
Aaricultural Area
6.     The available agricultural area in the nine ORMVA comprises 408,300 ha
of land irrigable by modern gravity (294,000 ha) or sprinkler (114,300 ha)
systems, 77,500 of improved traditional irrigation schemes, 311,000 of other
non-improved traditional irrigation and 1,432,000 ha of solely rainfed land
(see table 1).   Of the rainfed land, about one third, or 416,000 ha in the
Gharb and Loukkos, receives more than 450 mm rainfall per annum. A further
third receives 250-350 mm, and the remainder less than 250 mm.
Land Tenure
7.    The land tenure situation is dominated by many small farms (summary
below and table 2):
-------Total Area a/ --------  ----------LSI Area----------
Area   Farmers  Avg. Size  Area   Farmers  Avg. Size
X       X       ha      X        X       ha
0- 5 ha  36    75      2.4      38      84      1.4
5-20 ha  38     23      8.5      35      14      7.5
>20 ha  26     2      53.3     27       2      49.3
Total  100     100     5.0    100      100      3.1
a/ IncLuding irrigated and rainfed land under ORMVA responsibility.
1/    See "Etude sectorielle d'impact de l'irrigation sur l'environnement",
SECA-BCEOM, mai 1992.



-  36  -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
8.    In the irrigated area including the two LSI perimeters in the southern
oasis, 84% of the farms have less than 5 ha and the average size of all
irrigated farms is 3.1 ha. If the oasis perimeters (where farms are
particularly small averaging less than 0.9 ha) are excluded, in the remaining
seven perimeters, 75% of the farmers have less than 5 ha and 55% less than 2
ha. However, these small farms cover only 36t of the land area, while farms
with more than 20 ha (2% of farmers) farm 26% of the land. The latter
includes the state-owned land farmed by parastatals. The total number of
farms with irrigated land (LSI only) is estimated at 158,000 and another
328,000 have traditionally irrigated and rainfed land in ORMVA territory
(table 3).
9.    Over 70% of the land in the Doukkala, Moulouya, Massa and Tadla
irrigated areas is held by private individuals while in the Haouz, Souss and
Loukkos more than 50* is held by land reform cooperatives and/or collectives.
In all privately held areas, except parts of the Haouz and in Ouarzazate and
Tafilalet, private land has been subject to consolidation. On privately held
land, traditional inheritance laws lead to ownership being sub-divided between
co-heirs but without change of title ("indivision"). This ownership pattern
which affects development and production expectations, applies to at least 50*
of the area. In some cases, the land is farmed by one member on behalf of the
others; more usually it is sub-divided between heirs who work their piece
separately, while the ORMVAs, which do not recognize this de facto break-up of
the farm, continue to bill one family for the water.
10.   On the collective lands which make up 28* of the area in the Gharb and
15% in the Haouz, the traditional system of usufruct rights discourages
investment. In the Gharb, a pilot program (which will be supported by the
Second Agricultural Sector Investment Loan) is underway to give land titles to
the right holders.
B. Agricultural Production
CroDoinQ Pattern
11.    In the LSI area, Government has, in the past, promoted a cropping
pattern based on industrial cash crops and intensive animal production in
combination with traditional food crops. This policy was backed up by
legislation on the cropping pattern and cultural practices to be used in each
perimeter. In effect, this legislation imposed the growing of sugar crops and
cotton without which farmers did not get ready access to water. Under MTASAP
and LSII1 this policy has been relaxed. Although new notices with recommended
rotations have been issued, these are more advisory in nature and farmers are
given the option of proposing an alternative cropping program, within the
limits of available water supplies.
12.   The cropping in the ORMVAs' territory in 1989/90 is summarized in table
4(a) and in the LSI area (Ouarzazate and Tafilalet excepted) for 1990/91 and
the five-year average in table 4(b). In the LSI area of the seven modern



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 6
schemes, cereals (mainly bread wheat) are planted on 36% of the area;
industrial crops (sugar beet, sugarcane, cotton, oilseeds) on 20W; food
legumes on 6%; forage crops for cattle (milk and meat) on 12*; vegetables on
12%, and miscellaneous crops on 3%. Tree crops, mainly citrus and olive trees,
cover 14% of the cultivated area. On the rainfed land in the Gharb and
Loukkos, cereals occupy 60% of the land and in the other areas 80 to 100% of
the cropped area.
13.   In the LSI area, the overall croDping intensity averaged 103% in the
five years 1986-19912, with the best performance achieved in Doukkala and
Tadla where it was 125* and above. These cropping intensities compare with a
potential of about 117* overall2 in the LSI area and up to 135% in the
Doukkala. Studies by IAV-Hassan II show the relationship between cropping
intensity and size of farm; farms of less than 5 ha in the Doukkala had
intensities exceeding 140% while on the larger farms they were closer to 100W.
CroD Yields
14.   Yields vary widely both within and between ORMVA due to varying soil
conditions, farmers' competence and the incentives to invest and produce.
Sugar beet yields range from an average of about 60 ton/ha in the Doukkala to
46 ton/ha in the Tadla and only 35 ton/ha in the Gharb and Moulouya; against
the 80 ton/ha achieved by best practice. Sugarcane yields range from 68
ton/ha in the Gharb (good soils) to around 50 ton/ha in the Loukkos and
Moulouya where soils are less suitable. These results compare with over 70
ton/ha obtained by the better producers and up to 100 ton/ha on the research
station in the Gharb. Yields of bread wheat at 2 ton/ha (Haouz) to 4 ton/ha
(Tadla) are well below the potential of 6 ton/ha achieved by some farmers in
the Doukkala and Tadla. Average cotton yields at 1.2 to 2.1 ton/ha are also
low, yet some producers in the Haouz have obtained as much as 4 ton/ha.
Average citrus production (mainly clementines and navel and Maroc-late
oranges) has fluctuated between 14 and 20 ton/ha over the last five years, the
ceiling of about 20/ton/ha reflecting the aging of the plantations.
Crop and Livestock Production
15.   CroD production in the LSI area is dominated by cereals, sugar,
vegetables, citrus and milk production from forage. Overall, production in the
Doukkala is closest to the planned objectives while at the other end of the
scale, in the Gharb production is well below the objectives due to the
farmers' preference for solely rainfed cereals and legumes. The Tadla is also
a relatively good performer. Performance is low but improving in the Haouz
(Tessaout Amont). In the Loukkos, production is relatively intensive due to
2/    See Etude sur la synthese de la r6vision des assolements, Expert
Systeme, Rabat, Maroc, janvier 1993.



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
the long tradition of growing vegetables for market and groundnuts which
occupy 45% of the area. But sugarcane production is well below potential since
part of it is on very light soils. In the Moulouya, production is below
expectations, particularly for vegetables. The Souss is the nearest to
potential. Overall, the return on the irrigation network is below
expectations due to a relatively large area under cereals (36% against about
25% which might be expected to meet rotational needs), the low cropping
intensity and crop yields 30-50% below potential.
16.   Numbers of livestock have remained more or less stable but there has
been a general improvement in the quality of stock through crossing with
improved breeds. Total milk production has reached 300 million liters per
year but yields per cow are still relatively low. On extensive systems,
yields in the order of 470 liters/lactation for the local breeds, 1100 liters
for the cross-breeds and 1850 liters for pure improved breeds, have been
recorded. Under intensive systems, the pure breeds have averaged about 4000
liters per lactation. The reasons for low performance in milk production are
attributed to poor feeding and lack of basic hygiene. There is considerable
potential to raise the productivity of the forage break in the rotation
through use of new species and better conservation in the form of silage.
C. Production Potential and Constraints
17.   An analysis of the potential by groups of crops is in working paper 1.
18.   The principal reasons for lower than expected production and the
constraints to increasing agricultural production include the following:
(a) Water shortages restricting the area in summer crops but also poor
irrigation techniques resulting in wastage of water (field efficiencies
in gravity schemes are estimated at about 45%) and low yields. These
problems are compounded by the design of the irrigation system (trame B)
which is geared to a collective rather than individual use of water.
(b) The land tenure situation including the impact of "indivision" and
the lack of titles on land reform cooperatives and collective lands also
reduces farmers' interest in investing or intensifying their holdings.
(c) Limited crop options in the summer; there is a need for field trials
and experimentation to test new crops as well as the need for the
development of new markets.
(d) Poor cultural practices, particularly in land preparation, seeding
and weed control and wasteful use of fertilizer and crop protection
chemicals.



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 6
(e) In the Gharb, the risk of flooding on 20,000 ha in late winter makes
farmers reticent to grow intensive crops. Instead, cereals are grown and
resown in spring with sunflower if the cereals are lost. The Ouargha dam
presently under construction should eliminate this risk.
19.   The proposed project will be the vehicle for tackling (c) and (d) while
it would play major role in diffusing results of LSII2 work on (a). The land
tenure constraints (b), and specifically the collective lands in the Gharb,
will be tackled under the planned Second Agricultural Sector Investment Loan.
N:Cole\iaadsp\annexl



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Agricultural Area '000 ha
ANNUAL         IRRIGABLE LSI
ORMVA    RAINFALL ------ -------------------  OTHER    BOUR/    TOTAL
(MM)   MODERN   IMPROVED   TOTAL  IRRIGABLE RAINFED   AREA
TRADITIONNAL            a/
Gharb           550      86            _      86          _       306     392
Loukkos         700      19           _       19         _       110      129
Sub-total               105            _     105          -      416      521
Doukkala        350      61            _      61          6       339     406
Tadla           250      97            _      97         17        98     212
Sub-total               158            _     158         23      437      618
Haouz           300      47            30     77        134      257      468
Moulouya        350      65            -      65          6       60      131
Souss Massa     250      31             2     33         72      212      317
Sub-total               143            32    175       212       529      916
Ouarzazate      100       1            26     27         44       12       83
Tafilalet       150       1            19     20         32       38       90
Sub-total                 2           45      47        76        50      173
TOTAL                   408            78    485       311    1,432   2,228
a/ SMSI/PMH Private/Privf, etc.
Source: LSII2 SAR and PSDA preparation Report.
M:\COLE\SARIAASP\TABlWK1



- 41 -
ANNEX I
Table 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Land Tenure/Structure fonciere
1----------------------I I-  ---       I   -----I I----  I-   --- I----------I------I             ----I*-   I----
IDOtUKKALAIGHARB HAOUZILW%KKOSIMOuLOUtYAIOUJARZAZATEI SOUSS  ITADLAITAFILALETI ORMVA I
I                                   I a/  I b/  I         I         I           IMASSA c/1 d/  I   e*    I|   / I
1                         1----- --.-----1-----1------1---.----1--------I----------I-          I I------------------1I
1.    Area/Superficiesl                               I         I        I        I          I             I
I       0 -  S ha        |      42 143 1  24 1        48 1      30 1         97 1      37    411         881    361
5 - 10 ha              22    21    22|    21|           25|          31       27    20 |          *       23|
10 - 20 ha        |     16|   8    201         121       15i          0        18    121         121      151
20 ha       I      20    28    341       191       30            -I       18    27 |         .       26|
Total             |    100   100   100|   100            00|        1001      100    100         100      1001
l----------------------l I-------                 ------  I-----  I- -----  ...-------.I          -----l----I------- I..
|II.   Farmers/
I       Agricutteurs         |
I       0 -  5 ha        I      79    83    631       74|       66 |I                  37    82|         981      75|
5 - 10 ha              14    13 1221          191       25 |.                 29    12 |I                17
10 - 20 ha               51   2    101          SI        6 |.                 18     4|         21       61
20ha h              2 12512                         3|                    16 |2              -1 21
TotaL                  100   100   100        100       100 |                 100 I 100         100 I   1001
|111.  Area per Farmer/I                       I               I          I          I        I              I       I
I      Superficie par  I                  I               I         I           I         I
I        Agriculteur hal            I     I      I        I         I           I         I      I
I       0 -  5 he        I    2.3   2.0   2.3        3.8       2.91           -      3.0 1       |    0.78      2.4
5 - 10 ha        |    7.3 16.1  17.2         6.1      6.4 |          - |    9.6 1 1.91                  6.9|
10 - 20 ha        |   12.8 112.5 115.1 I  14.2 |   15.4 |             -      1 11.7 1 8.3 |    5.00 |  15.0 1
20 ha      I|    4.7 168.2 153.3 |  59.0 |   64.3 |              *     46.5 148-4 I            I  53.3 I
Average/Moyenne 1    4.2 1 3.8 1 7.0 I   5.8 1    6.5 |               - I    5.9 1 3.71        0.84 1   5.0
I---------------------- I----I---- I              ------I---------I---------- I-----   I       ---------I    I-
a/ Excluding/Sans COV 237.
b/ Excluding/Sans CMV 401, 404, 425.
c/ Excluding/Sans CMV 815 803.
d/ Area large scale irrigationxSuperficie grande irrigation.
e/ Area large scale irrigation/Superficie grande irrigation.
f/ Excluding/sans Ormva - de Ouarzazate, Tadla et TafilaLet.
Source: Questionnaire CMV (Doukkala, Gharb, Haouz, Loukkos, MouLouy., Ouarzazate, Souss-Nassa and PAGI.1:
Preparation report/rapport de preparation (Tadla, Tafilalet).
M:\COLE\SARIAASP\TA82.WK1



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Table 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
FARM NUMBERS
IRRIGABLE LSI
ORMVA         --------- --------- ------- - -   OTHER      BOUR/      TOTAL
Modern    Imp.Trad.    Total   IRRIG.    RAINFED
Gharb            22579          0      22579          0     61200      83779
Loukkos           3404          0       3404          0     22000      25404
Doukkala         24400          0      24400      2000      30900      57300
Tadla            22558          0      22558      5667       9800      38025
Haouz            15800      10000      25800     44667      25700      96167
Moulouya         11661          0      11661      2000       6000      19661
Souss-Massa       4485        733       5219     24000      21200      50419
Ouarzazate         270      17568      17838     29730       1200      48768
Tafilalet         1786      22976      24762     38095       3800      66657
TOTAL           106943      51277    158220    146158    181800    486178
TOTAL 1/        104887      10733    115620      78333    176800    370753
1/ Without Ouarzazate & Tafilalet
Source: Modern LSI based on LSII2 SAR, average farm size Doukkala 2.5 ha,
Gharb 3.8 ha, Haouz 3.0 ha, Loukkos 5.7 ha, Moulouya 5.6 ha, Souss
Massa 6.8 ha, Tadla 4.3 ha, Ouarzazate 1.5 ha and Tafilatet 0.8 ha.
Other irrig. & Bour based on IAASP preparation report.
M:\COLE\SARIAASP\TAB5.WK1



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Cropping (000 ha) In the ORNVA/Occup tion du saot (000 ha) dans tes ORMVA
1989/90
Doukkat*        Gharb            Haouz       Loukkos        MouLouya     Ouarzazate  Souss-Nassa      TadLa      Taflialet 1/  9 Offices 2/
RR a/   IRR b/ RR a/   IRR b/  RR a/ IRR b/IRR a/ IRR b/  RR a/ IRR b/  RR a/ IRR b/ RR a/ IRR b/ RR a/ IRR b/ RR a/  IRR b/ RR a/  IRR b/
I.   CEREALS/CEREALES          258       25   187       38     188     74    63      1      40    19       8      41   116     40    71      44      7     39    938    321
-Wheat/B16                93        22   163      28       88     48    59      1      13    12       3     30    55      29    43      43      4     27    521    240
Barley/Orge              75             18        2     100     24     4             27     7       5       9    60      7    28       -      3      5    320      54
11. FORAGE/FOURRAGE             11       15    10        9             14     7      1       -     5       -      13            7     -      1S            10      28     89
- Lucerne/Luzerrie          -        5                            10                          5       -      13            7             7            10       0     57
- *Bersmersim                        a 8   a       8               4     5      1       _                                                2             -      13     23
III. INDUSTRIAL CROPS/
CULTLIRES INDUSTRIELLES             24    68 d/   22 e/            3    16      6 f/          9g/    -        2                   -     33                    84     99
-Sugar beet/                        18    13        7                    7      -             4                  -               -      20                   20      49
Betteraves A sucre
- Cotton/Coton              _        2     -       2               1                    -      -         -       -      -               11                     0     16
IV. VEGETABLES/MARAICHAGE        7       16     8        3       _      6     6      8             8        -      4           10            11             4      21     70
V.  PULSES/LEGMIINEUSES         34             34        5       3      2    12      2       1     2        -      1             1     0      1                    84     14       t
VI. TREE CROPS/PLANTATIONS       9c/      5     5       20             78      4     2       1    19                     4     40      -     18                    23    182
- Citrus/Agrumes                     -             19             11            2       -    11        -      -     -     24      -      7      _              0     74
- Otives/OLIviers           _              2                      54     3              -     3       -       -     4     13      -     11                     9     81
VII. OTHERS                                                                                                                     18     -                            0     18
TOTAL                     319       85   312       97     191    177   108    20       42    62       8      61   120    116    71    122       7      53   1178    793
USEFUL AREA/SAU           339       66   306       83     257    216   110    21       60    71       12     66   212    105    98    114      38     60   1432    802
CROPPING INTENSITY/
OCCL'PATIO  DU SOL (Z)     94      129   102      117      74     82    98    95       70    86      67      93    57    110    72    107      18     88      82     99
a/ Rainfd/Bour_.
b/ Irrigated/IrriguL.
c/ Mainty grapes/Princlpltty vigna.
d/ Mainty Sunflouer/Principteamnt tournesol.
e/ Of which 7,000 ha sugar cane and 4,000 ha rIce/Dont 7,000 ha CAS et 4,000 ha de rlz,
f/ Sugar cane/CAS.                                                                                                                                                          (X
g/ Of which 1,000 ha Sugar cne/Dont 1,000 he CAS.
1/ Uithout Tree Crops/Hors plantations.
2/ Wlthout Tree Crops Ouarzazate  nd Tafilalet/Hors plantations Ouwr2azate et Tafilalet.
SO*NCE, Preparation Report/Rapport de Prpepration.
N:%COLE%SARIAASP%TAB4.UIE



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Table 4 (b)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Cropping LSI 1990/91 and Average 1986-1991
Crop             1990/91        Average 1986-1991
ha         %         ha         %
Cereals        138,803         33   139,008       36
Legumes         24,625          6    23,965        6
Sugar beet      48,499         12    45,067       12
Sugar cane      15,060          4    15,179        4
Cotton          10,830          3    13,880        4
Vegetables      53,097         13    44,892       12
Forages         50,225         12    45,351       12
Tree Crops      60,611         15    55,308       14
Others          13,304          3     6,620        2
Total          415,054       100   389,270       100
Cropping         116                  103
Intensity
Source: Etude sur la synthese de la revision des
assolements (PAGI); Rapport phase II,
Expert Systeme - janvier 1993
M:\COLE\SARIAASP\TAB4B



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Adaptive Research and SunportinQ Services
A. Background
1.    Overview.  Research efforts in the irrigated areas have been
concentrated on the industrial crops (sugar and cotton) and few resources have
been devoted to other crops in the rotation or to the testing of new crops for
the diversification and intensification of the cropping system. As to the use
of fertilizers and crop protection chemicals, little attempt has been made to
adapt national recommendations to the specific soil and water conditions of
each irrigation scheme. Use of these chemicals has been wasteful, injurious
to the environment and the impact on productivity below potential.
Furthermore, use of irrigation water is also wasteful and work on irrigated
crop agronomy should be stepped up to complement the work under LSII2 on
techniques for raising the efficiency of water use at the field level.
2.    Existing research at the National Institute for Agricultural Research
(INRA) and the major University (IAV-Hassan II) provides some of the necessary
"upstream" work on varietal and technical developments, but there is
insufficient adaptive research within the irrigated areas which is the
responsibility of each ORMVA. The execution of a sound adaptive research
program is a prerequisite for farmers to build a diversified irrigated
agriculture capable of providing improved farm incomes and an adequate return
to government investments in irrigation infrastructure. In addition, farmers
will need access to certain support services to enable them to make better use
of fertilizer, crop protection chemicals and water as well as to promote more
appropriate mechanization.
3.    Priorities.  The priorities for increasing productivity in the irrigated
areas which are described in Working Paper 1, include improved irrigation
techniques, better soil preparation, more efficient use of fertilizers and
crop protection chemicals (including the introduction of Integrated Pest
Management practices) and crop diversification.
4.    Resources.  Within each ORMVA, the crop (SPV) and animal production
(SPA) services would be responsible for developing and adapting technology to
the needs of farmers in their area. Although to date much of the work of the
SPV has been devoted to managing the production of the sugar and cotton crops,
and the SPA has focussed primarily on the development of milk production,
following divestiture, the staff are now available to work on technology
transfer. Each ORMVA has a number of ill-equipped experimental stations, or
"Station experimentale et de mise en valeur" (SEMVA), which, with some
improvements to selected stations, would provide the necessary infrastructure.



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 4
B. Adaptive Research Component
5.    Selection of Research Programs.  Under LSII1, the MAMVA department
responsible for education, research and development (DERD) has worked with the
ORMVA on the identification of research priorities and the preparation of
programs. A regional committee - "Comite local de coordination de la
recherche" (CLCR) - on which are represented the major research institutes,
the input supply and processing industry and the farming profession, was set
up in each ORMVA to select the subjects and programs for research.   Proposals
from the CLCRs were screened by the DERD, acting as the secretariat to a
national committee, the "Comite national de l'orientation et de coordination
de la recherche agricole" (CNOCRA). The screening led to the selection of
priorities and the elimination of duplication between ORMVA. The selected
programs on which the project is based would be fine tuned once the results of
initial diagnostic surveys (see Annex 3 and Working Paper 2) are available.
6.   Prolect Actions.  The project would provide for the establishment of a
responsive adaptive research program on the cropping program, with a focus on
the development of more diversified cropping patterns and raising the cropping
intensity. For livestock, the focus would be on improved forage crop
production, including the introduction of new crops, more effective use of
irrigation and better conservation techniques. Crop specialization by ORMVA
would be encouraged to reduce duplication and concentrate the available human
and physical resources. The following provisional list of specializations has
been selected:
CROP/LIVESTOCK                 ORMVA
Citrus                         Souss-Massa, Moulouya, Gharb
Olives                         Haouz
Cotton                         Tadla
Sugarcane                      Gharb
Sugarbeet                      Doukkala, Gharb
Field Vegetables               Doukkala, Loukkos
Greenhouse Crops               Souss-Massa, Doukkala,
Date-Palms                     Ouarzazate
Sheep & Goats                  Ouarzazate, Tafilalet
7.    The project would provide for building rehabilitation and/or extension,
housing where essential and additional equipment and vehicles. More than one
SEMVA would be supported per ORMVA (see Table 1) in order to cover the
different agro-ecological situations. Also, in each of the ORMVA, one SENVA
would be selected as the principal station around which the program would be
organized. The majority of staff required to implement the program are
available in the ORMVA but some reallocation of duties and training would be
required.



-  47  -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4
8.    The SPV would work with the Irrigation and Drainage Technical Unit of
the ORMVAs' Irrigation Network Management Departments on the improvement of
water use at the field level and the introduction of best practices in
irrigation agronomy. The work would be expected to result in better
scheduling of irrigation, improved field efficiencies and more precise timing
in water use. In support of this, the project would provide for the
acquisition of the necessary soil water measuring equipment which is listed at
table 2. The project would also provide for each ORMVA to send one agronomist
for 6 - 12 months training overseas in irrigation agronomy.
9.    Organization and Management.  Under the ORMVA reorganization planned in
the Doukkala, Gharb, Loukkos and Tadla (which is expected to be extended to
the other ORMVA, with some modifications, by year 3 of the project) the
research component would be managed by a unit (Bureau de la recherche
appliquee) attached to the Director of Agriculture. This unit would act as
secretariat to the regional committee (CLCR) which would monitor the execution
of the research program.
C. Support Services
10.   There are a number of supporting services required to complement the
adaptive research program to which farmers will need access if they are to
optimize the use of inputs. Some of these services should eventually be
provided by the private sector and the ORMVAs' role would be limited to the
interim period while farmer demand builds up. The required services cover
soils and plant analysis, information on pest management, climatic data and
demonstration of improved, small-scale farm machinery.
11.   Soils and vlant analysis.  To date, soils analysis work in the ORMVA has
been limited to that required for planning the development of new irrigated
areas; little use has been made by farmers of soils analysis in planning
fertilizer application. While there are one or two private laboratories
providing this service and the Ministry subsidizes the cost through the "Fonds
de Developpement Agricole" (FDA), no supporting field service is available to
provide reference data in each area or advice on soil sampling. Similarly,
services for plant analysis, either for work on plant nutrition or the
analysis of forage crops in livestock feeding, are unavailable.
12.   The project would provide laboratory equipment (Table 3) to complement
existing equipment and enable ORMVA to provide a soils and plant analysis
service.  Prior to purchase of this equipment, each  ORMVA would verify that
there are no private laboratories able to handle the work. A training program
would provide for training SPV and extension staff in soil sampling
procedures.
13.   Agro-meteorological unit.  The project would provide the complement of
equipment necessary to upgrade the existing meteorological units at selected
SEMVA. The data would be made available to field staff and farmers to aid the
pest control programs and planning of water use.



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 4
14.   Pest ManacFement.  Each ORMVA would establish a convention with the
Ministry department responsible for crop protection, the "Direction de la
protection des vegetaux, du contr8le technique et de la repression des
fraudes" (DPVCTRF) to reinforce the warning network for pest infestation. The
DPVCTRF would provide the technical assistance for identifying pest outbreaks
and the introduction of integrated pest management (IPM) practices. They
would train ORMVA staff who would participate with DPVCTRF in the surveillance
and in the training of extension staff in IPM practices. The ORMVA extension
service would subsequently be responsible for advising farmers on treatment.
15.   Farm Machinery unit.  Large farm machinery is used in soil preparation
and cereal harvesting but little attempt has been made to develop small scale
mechanization more adapted to the field lay-out. Also, machinery is often
incorrectly set resulting in poor operation and wastage. There is a need to
provide farmers with the relevant information and to demonstrate the range of
equipment available for raising productivity.
16.   The project would provide first for a study to inventorize the existing
use of farm machinery and to identify the main needs; second, a small farm
machinery unit would be set up in each ORMVA. This unit's work with local
machinery distributors would encourage the testing and introduction of
alternative equipment available internationally. Outline terms of reference
for the unit and the study are at appendix 1. The unit would build on the
experience available at IAV-Hassan II, at ENA, Meknes from the GTZ assisted
mechanization project, and the USAID assisted project on small scale
mechanization at Settat.



-  49  -
ANNEX 2
Tables 1 & 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Adaptive Research and Supporting Services
Table 1: SEMVA to be supported under the project
ORMVA                      SEMVA
Doukkala        Zemamra, Had Ouled Frej
Gharb           CTCAS, Sidi Slimane
Haouz           Ral El Ain
Loukkos         Sakhsoh, M'rissa
Moulouya        Slimania, Bou Ghriba, Zebra
Ouarzazate      Ta Metkalt, Zagora
Souss-Massa     Taroudant, Ait Amira
Tadla           Ahl-Souss, FETA
Tafilalet       Erachidia, Tabouassant
Table 2: Soil Water Measuring Equipment
ITEM                      NUMBER        INDICATIVE PRICE
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ (U S $ )
Neutron Probe with 3 m access           2/ORMVA              3500
tubes
Tensiometers                             10/CDA               150
Electric conductivity meters             2/CDA               200
(portable)
Auger sets (1-3 m holes)                  2/CDA              200
Lysimeter (self-weighing)               1/SEMVA             15,000



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
AdaDtive Research and Suooortina Services
Laboratory Eauipment
ITEM                           UNIT     NUMBER
Soils
Spectrometer                   unit           1
Conductivity meter (fixed)    unit            1
Conductivity meter (ground)   unit            1
Sterilizer                     unit           2
Heated plate                   unit           3
Oven                           unit           1
Distilled water unit           unit           1
Granulemeter                   lot            1
Grinder                        system         1
Flame Photometer               unit           1
Colourmeter                    unit           1
Centrifuge                     unit           1
Nitrogen digester              unit           1
Ph meter                       unit           2
Polarmeter                     unit           1
Centrifuge                     unit           1
Digester                       unit           1
Refrigerator                   unit           1
Nitrogen distillation          unit           1
Thermastat bath                unit           1
M: \cole\iaadsp\amnex2



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
APPENDIX 1
Adaptative Research and Suooortina Services
Outline Terms of Reference for Agricultural Mechanization Unit
1.  Objective:    to allow farmers to have access to the necessary tools for
soil preparation, planting, protection against parasites,
harvesting and preparation for sale.
2.  Tasks:         . determine the needs;
. prospect suitable equipment;
. obtain necessary equipment from the manufacturers or
vendors;
. make necessary adaptations after trials;
. undertake necessary demonstrations.
3. Means:          . SEMVAs for the first tests, transportation and repairs;
. possibility to meet with manufacturers and farmers, visits
to fairs and exhibits;
. training and regular information of personnel (reviews,
documents, seminars);
. training of unit personnel in a specialized organism
(such as CNEEMA, France);
consultants' support.
4. The establishment of this program will require a diagnostic study of the
situation in all the ORMVA covering the following points:
a.    A survey on the current situation:
- agricultural practices;
- sales networks and equipment promotion;
- maintenance, setting, adaptations;
- financing;
- related activities of ORMVA;
- other public interventions;
- training on agricultural mechanization in Morocco.
b.    A orosoective study for:
- current cropping pattern;
- crops to promote;
- the special case of green-houses.
c.    Proposed actions for
- the ORMVAs;
- the farmer organizations;
- industry (manufacturers and sellers).
5.  Budget:        . 3 staff-months for an international level consultant;
ORMVAs' participation equivalent to 2 months in addition.



-  52  -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 6
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Extension Services
A. Backaround
1.    Present Situation.  Morocco has a population growth of about 2.5 1
overall, but higher (4.1 1) in urban areas. A growing percentage of the
population lives in cities, from about a third of the population thirty years
ago, to about half now. The nine "Office Regionale de Mise en Valeur" (ORMVA)
have about 500,000 farms in 9,250 villages, representing about one third of
the agricultural population of the country. The nine ORMVAs cover about 2.2 M
ha, about a third irrigated. Three out of every four farmers have less than
five hectares of land, while two percent of farmers exploit a quarter of all
available land. There are about 1.2 M head of cattle and 6 M goats and sheep.
The majority of farmers run mixed farms. About half of the Moroccan population
over fifteen can read and write, with large differences between men and women:
611 of men are literate, against 381 of women. Radio is widespread in rural
areas with one radio per five persons. There is one television per twenty, but
concentrated in the larger cities. There is a telephone for every 68 people.
2.    Maior Weaknesses.  There are three major sets of problems in extension
in the ORMVAs that the project would need to address, namely the supply of
advice to farmers, the formulation of demand for advice by farmers and the
effective matching of supply and demand. First, there are difficulties in
supplving the correct advice since farmers (their constraints and
opportunities) are insufficiently known by the staff of different, public and
private services who do not work towards clear, shared objectives. Also,
ORMVA staff are poorly trained and the monitoring system focuses on activities
rather than on results. Second, farmers are insufficiently organized to
formulate their demands and they do not participate in setting extension and
research priorities, nor in monitoring results. Finally, the resultant
matchina of supply and demand is ineffective, the available extension
resources are used inefficiently and the advice is not always relevant to
farmers' needs.
3.    Development Trends.  Some major, regional trends are likely to impact on
government's role in extension to meet the needs of a diversifying and
modernizing farming population. Agricultural development in the next decade
is likely to be influenced by four major trends: (i) further disengagement of
the state from activities connected with agricultural production; (ii)
continued liberalization of agricultural prices and markets, resulting in new
opportunities for some farmers and the further development of commercial
input, machinery and marketing sectors; (iii) shifts - in response to changes
in local and export prices and to dwindling water resources (and rising costs)
- in production patterns and in on-farm specialization, resulting, inter alia,
in a growing number of sophisticated small and medium farmers; and (iv) a
continued rural exodus, leaving a large number of small, mixed and part-time
farmers behind, many of whom are women. These trends will impact on the role



-  53  -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6
of government, the composition of the farmer clientele and the location of the
agricultural services.
4.    First, while the role of government is expected to diminish, GOM will
remain responsible for: (i) setting conditions and legislation for the various
public and private advisory services to operate without unnecessary
restriction; (ii) ensuring the availability and affordability of, and access
to communication infrastructure and public information sources; and (iii)
providing extension via the ORMVAs where a public benefit exists which is not
filled by the private sector.
5.    Second, four major categories of farms could be expected to develop over
the next decade, all with their own needs for advisory services, and hence,
with consequences for the supply of advice:
(i) Small Mixed Farms (0-5 ha), mixed crop and animal, intensive, often
part-time farmers , many of whom will be women. They will need advice on
farm management, low input agriculture, farmer organization, labor
saving techniques;
(ii) Medium-sized Mixed Farms (5-20 ha), mixed, not so intensive,
usually full-time farmers. They will need specialized production
recommendations, water saving techniques, farm management advice,
investment counseling, accounting skills;
(iii) Large Extensive Farms (>20 ha), fairly extensive, predominantly
field crop, often absentee farmers. They need advice on intensification,
alternative crops, export markets, technical and economic advice on
supplementary irrigation;
(iv) Small and Medium Specialized Farms, with specialized, high value
products. A relatively small, but growing group, with high economic
potential, particularly in vegetables. They need to develop their
accounting skills, market intelligence and more sophisticated and
sustainable production methods.
6.    Finally, over the next ten to fifteen years, the ORMVA can be expected
to transfer certain responsibilities to the agricultural profession. It would
be not unreasonable to expect that about a third of extension staff would be
seconded to farmer organizations and chambers of agriculture, together with
their transport and recurrent budgets; about half of the training programs
would be subcontracted to local institutes; about half of all demonstrations
would be organized in manifest cooperation and cost sharing with the private
sector; and about a third of applied research funding would be targeted
specifically towards the majority of small, often women, farmers.



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 6
B. The Proiect
Proiect Obiectives
7.    The objective of the Project is to increase the income of farming
families in the irrigated areas of the nine ORMVAs, through: raising on-farm
productivity; increased farmer participation in and control over agricultural
services; diversification and intensification towards higher value crop and
animal production; and cost reduction, particularly from the more rational use
of water, fertilizer and pesticides.
Main Features
8.    The project's extension component has six main features to: (i) improve
participatory diagnosis, planning and implementation of extension with, by and
for farmers; (ii) distribute extension tasks among the private and public
sectors and farmers themselves; (iii) improve the management of public
extension staff; (iv) improve monitoring of extension activities, results and
impact; (v) improve public relations; and (vi) develop some other features
including improved linkages (research - extension - farmers) and the use of
local and regional radio for extension.
(i)   Improved Particivatorv Diaanosis, Planning. Imnlementation.  The
Project would support a more participatory approach to planning and
implementation, executed in a step-wise approach as follows:
AREA INVENTORY: a simple, practical data base on farmers, farming
systems and trends in crop and animal yields. To be carried out by each
extension agent in his/her area.
PARTICIPATORY DIAGNOSTIC SURVEY: identifying constraints and
opportunities for different categories of male and female farmers. To be
carried out by a working group integrating the different interests
(farmers, researchers, agro-industry, educators, extension staff; public
and private).
SETTING PRIORITIES: for extension and research, based on needs and
potential for growth of different farmer categories, resulting in an
annual extension workplan, targeting different information to the
different categories of farmers mentioned in para 5. To be carried out
by the participatory working group.
TASK DISTRIBUTION: agree on the question: "who is doing what in
extension next year?" Public, communal and private advisory services to
meet to distribute responsibilities and funding. To be carried out by a
ROUND TABLE bringing together decision-level representatives of all
local advisory services. See para 8 (ii).



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 6
IMPLEMENTATION: in the ORMVAs with: improved staff management; skills
gap analysis as basis for determining in-service training needs;
construction of housing and offices; staff mobility; demonstrations;
interactive radio and video productions; technical assistance. To be
carried out by the DDAs (in ORMVAs) and others (public, private and
communal).
MONITORING: of extension activities, results and impact; with
quantitative and qualitative data collection and presentation;
adjustment of extension workplans. To be carried out by the
participatory working group and DDA staff.
(ii) Towards a Distribution of Extension Tasks. Based on the diagnosis
of farmers' constraints and opportunities, a list of priority actions for
extension and research will be agreed upon. At present, the public extension
service in the ORMVAs assumes virtually total responsibility for this task.
The project will assist farmers, ORMVAs and the private sector to meet at a
ROUND TABLE and identify extension tasks for which each may have a comparative
advantage. A Matrix of Task Distribution (on its vertical axis all major
extension, its horizontal axis all potential suppliers), which clearly shows
that (a) there are usually more than one supplier involved and, (b) it is not
always the ORMVA that has an advantage to implement a certain task, will be
adjusted on a yearly basis. Over time, the Matrix will become more detailed,
identifying not only task and supplier, but also different audiences. For
instance, the DDA might be best suited to provide small, women farmers with
advice on food crop varieties, while a sugar factory and beet growers
associations will tend to cover larger, specialized farmers.
(iii) Staff Management. The project will support a mandate for the
ORMVAs that focuses on the provision of advisory services to farmers and a
decentralization of staff and responsibilities towards the field. The project
foresees four types of training: initial, in-service, overseas, and farmer
training. On the basis of a skills gap analysis, a training masterplan will be
designed and implemented. In addition, extension agents will receive training
in farm management and group work; specialists in practical aspects of farming
and didactics; and supervisors in staff-management, including motivation,
sanctions, conflict resolution and performance appraisal. Staff will work
under a simplified, and more direct organizational structure.
(iv) Monitoring. In addition to formal, quantitative monitoring of
project inputs, outputs and effects, the project foresees: (i) a participatory
evaluation each year of the extension workplan and its results, with a view to
adjust the new workplan; and (ii) an informal, qualitative monitoring by the
Chief Bureau Monitoring personally, on the basis of a simple monthly and
yearly checklist. The monthly checklist contains indicators such as: its
presence of degree staff in the farmers' fields and stables; coherence of
training with diagnostic survey results; representativity of farmer categories
in biweekly meetings; farmer reactions to demonstrations. The yearly checklist
contains indicators like: representativity of farmers in participatory working
group; extent of action-orientation of workplan; extent of task distribution;
adoption rates and explanation of farmers' rationale; staff seconded; extent



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 6
of difference of workplans over the years, in view of changing environment;
coherence of radio programs with extension workplan, and farmers' reactions.
(v)   Public Relations.  A special effort will be made to inform both
the public at large and local authorities about the Project and the changing
role of the ORMVAs. Videos will be produced for these different audiences, and
project staff, to explain objectives, rationale, strategy and actions of the
project.
(vi) Some other features. Under the project, linkages between research
and extension will be strengthened, by getting them out in farmers' fields and
stables, together during the diagnostic surveys and at later stages. Also,
joint specialist training, field trials and demonstrations and regional
technical committees will contribute to a better articulation of the farmer,
research, education and extension connections. The project will support both
local and regional radio. In regional radio, the project will support three
ORMVAs (with equipment, transport and training) to produce two fifteen minute
programs a week for farmers, which will be diffused by RTM. In local radio,
the project foresees the establishment of a studio and emitter in the Tadla,
while support for programming, production and maintenance will be funded under
a USAID project.
Proiect Inputs
9.    Staff.  The nine ORMVAs employ 4,170 staff in their services for crop
production, livestock production and extension. Of these, only 112 graduate
level staff and 241 technicians are employed directly in the extension
services. Under the project a gradual shift will take place of staff from the
previous production services towards the advisory services. It is expected
that by the end of the project about 160 graduates and 482 technicians will be
employed by the extension services. The incremental posts should be filled by
redeployment and transformation of existing posts within each ORMVA. The
skills gap analysis will identify needs and potentials for retraining and
transformation of posts.
10.   Buildings.  The project foresees the construction of 25 offices and 19
meeting rooms, and the provision of furniture for the working places.
11.   Transport.  The transport needs (primarily light vehicles) at full
development have been based on the following norms: 4 light vehicles for each
ORMVA central extension unit, 3 for each arrondissement, 1 per three extension
agents and 1 small van for each arrondissement and 1 minibus for each ORMVA.
In a number of ORMVAs, the funds for transport of extension agents will be
used to buy motorcycles; weather, road conditions and traditions permitting.
These needs would be met partly from existing means and partly from additional
resources provided by the project.
12.   Eauiiment.  The project foresees for each arrondissement basic video
production and diffusion equipment, 2 notebook computers, a photocopier and a
slide camera and projector. Each extension agent will be given some basic



-  57  -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 6
tools for demonstrations, (e.g. measuring tape, pruning shears, soil tester,
loupe, etc.) For the Tadla, a radio station, including a modest transmitter
and recording equipment is planned. In three ORMVAs (Haouz, Moulouya, Souss-
Massa) basic field reporting equipment is planned to produce short
agricultural programs that will be transmitted by the Regional Stations of
RTM.
13.   Training.  About 1500 staff/weeks have been foreseen for initial
trainina of all staff in project rationale, extension principles,
participatory appraisal, working with groups, demonstrations, planning,
accounting, staff management. Extension workers will attend biweekly in-
service training sessions, specialists and supervisors monthly workshops of
two days each. Each ORMVA has twenty staff weeks per year for staff to attend
seminars, study tours, etc. overseas. About 3300 person/weeks are foreseen to
train male and female farmers. Farmer groups will travel both in the country
and abroad to visit farmer organizations and study alternative farming
practices and extension approaches.
14. Technical Assistance. About 115 staff months of technical assistance
have been included, half of which from within the country and half recruited
internationally. Of this, 46 staff months are for the diagnostic studies and
extension planning, 15 staff months for training and 14 staff months for
audiovisual work. In addition 40 staff months are included for developing a
farm management advisory service in selected ORMVA (see Appendix 3).
15.   Recurrent Costs.  The project includes provision for: operation and
maintenance of incremental vehicles; demonstration materials for 30 result
demonstrations and 60 method demonstrations per year, per extension agent;
production and diffusion of audio-visuals; farmer training, fairs,
expositions; a performance prime for "extension worker of the year", to be
decided by and with farmers; documentation on extension.



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
APPENDIX 1
TURMZS DZ RZEZRZNCZ PROVISOIRZS POUR L'ASSISTANCZ TZCHNIQUE
mois             action                                               expertise requise
T  DIAGNOSllO_ _
5     Inventaire de Zone        Inventorier ce qu'il exide; preparer un format pour un Inventaire de Zone; former lea chefs
BAT, MEP et un nombre de vulgarisateurs/trices en collecte et presentation des donnees, sur le
_ _,  dans trois ORMVAs.
25     Enquete Diagnostique     Assider lea groupes de travail b preparer leurs npports d'enquete diagnostique participative,
incluant: types d'agriculteurs/trices; contraintes et opportunit6s par type.
8     Formulation Prioritea,   Assiter les groupes de travail I fornuler lea priorites pour la vulgarisation et recherche, basds
Objectif6                our diagnostique; asisider ler groupes de travail b formuler lea priorites de vulgarization en
changenments quantifiable de comportemwnt des agricultours.
a     Table Ronde sur           Asaister k rdunir des decideurn pour une table rondo; assister I la preparation des documents
Matrice de Distribution    prdparatoires; assider I le diffusion des reaultats de le table ronde: redaction finale de la
de Taches                matrice, diffusion des deliberations sur radio et television.
FORMATION
5     Analyse des lacunes de    Inventorier ce qu'il exide, at, sur catte base, faire une sythese des termes de reference pour tout
competences              1e personnel de vulgarisation; faire un inventaire des competences disponibles; preparer un plan
directeur de formation at des plans pour rmotmcturations des postes et redeploiement.
5     Formation des             Former les chefs BAT at lea MEP en pedagogic, didactique at production des aides audio-
Formteurs               visudlles.
5     Gestion de Personnel      Former lea chefs DDA, SPV, SVOP, SPA, Arrondissments et BAT en motivation, resolution
de conflits, credibilite, organisation de travail, support I la carriere, evaluation de performance.
COMMUNICAnON
5     Planification des         Former lea Chefs Bureau AIV en planification des productions qui repondent aux besoins des
productions audio-       agriculteurs/trices.
visuelles
3     Production dea videos,    Assister I Ia production de trois videos d'une duree de 30 a 60 minutes, qui expliquent le
facilitant le demarrage  Projat: objectifs, moyens, mdthodologie, resultats attendus. Cela pour trois audiences differentes
du Projet                : le public en ge6nral, los decideurs pofitiques, et le personnel des ORMVAs.
3     Radio regionale           Former le personnel, assiter sux productions lea plus populaires.
3      Production des Manuels   Inventorier ce qu'il existe, rediger des manuels de vulgarisation, pour utilisation des
de Vulgarisation         vulgarisateurs en priorite, mais aussi pour tout autre personnel de vulgarisation. Traduction du
present document on Arabe.
CONSEILPD
GESIONQDE
LEXPLOITATION
40     Forma tion des            Former 5 - 10 conseillers par ORMVA selectionne et mise en place systeme de conseil de
conseillers at mise en   gestion I 1'exploitation dana certains ORMVA. Mise en place d'un sysdme de comptabilite et
place systeme de consoil  de suivi des r6sultats au niveau chaque speculation suivant approche developpee dans le
de geaion de             Loukkos.
I'exploitation



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
TABLE 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
EXTZNSION STAFF, PRESZNT AND FORZSZEN AT END OF PROJECT
PZRSONNEL DE VULGARISATION PRESENT ZT PRZVU A LA FIN DU PROJET
Year 1/Annee 1                 Year 6/Annee 6                Difference/Difference
Title/Titre              Graduate/        Techn/       Graduate/          Techn/        Graduate/            Techn/
Diplom6         Techn        Diplome             Techn        Diplome               Techn
CES/CSV                         9                               9
Extension Unit/                13             27               15              32                2                 5
Bureau Vulg.
Training/Bureau                10             14              13               23                3                 9
Form.
Bureau A/Vis                    8             22               10              25                2                 3
MT/EM                          31                             43                                12
Coordinator/                   27                             47               12               20                12
Coordinateur
EA (Female)/                    6             17               9               47                3                30
Vutg (F)
EA (Male)/                                    69                              284                                215
Vulg (H)
Mass Press/                                   84              27                                                 -57
M6dias
Frm mgt Cons./                  8              8              14               32                6                24
Cons. de Gestion
TOTAL                         112            241             160              482               48               241
Most of these posts wilt be filled by redeployment of existing staff.  A Limited number of unavailable staff
will be recruited./La plupart de ces postes seront remplis au moyen du redeploiement du personnel existant.
Un nombre limite de personnel non disponible sera recrute.



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
TABLE 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
NUIER OF DIVISIONS AND CDA BY ORHVA/
TOTMAX DES ARROHUISSEBEfTS ET CENTRES DE DEVELOPPEHENT AGRICOLE
ORMVA                 SUB-DIVISION/                 CDA
ARRONDISSEMENTS
Doukkala                      4                       20
Gharb                       5                      28
Haouz                       4                      20
Loukkos                      5                      10
Moulouya                      6                      18
Ouarzazate                     5                      21
Souss Massa                    3                        9
Tadia                       5                      31
Tafitalet                     5                      22
TOTAL                      42                      179
BUILDING TO BE CONSTRUCTED
INVESTISSEMENTS DAMS LA CONSTRUCTION
ORMVA              Offices/       Meeting Rooms/Oalles de
Bureaux                r6union
Doukkala               0                       0
Gharb                 0                      0
Haouz                 5                       2
Loukkos                0                      0
Moulouya                3                      0
Ouarzazate              11                      3
Souss Massa               1                      3
TadIa                 5                      6
Tafilalet               0                       5
TOTAL                25                      19
In certain cases, building wilt include refitting/La construction incluera dans certains cas, le r6amenagement.



-   61   -
ANNEX 3
TABLE 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
TRANSPORTATION/TRANSPORT j/
Vehicle!                   Description/             Quantity      No. person per                Total
v6hicule                   Designation               /Unit6       unit/personnes par         vehicules/
unite                    Total vehicles
light/leger               CES/CVS                 1                     9                        9
light/l6ger               Extension Unit/         1                     9                        9
Bureau vulg
Light/l6ger               Monitoring Unit/        1                     9                        9
Cellute de Suivi
light/l6ger               Audio-visual Unit/    1                       9                        9
Bureau A/V
light/leger 2/            MD Team/                1                    42                      84
Equipe MD
light/l6ger                Head Tech. Unit/       1                    42                       42
Chef BAT
light/l6ger               EA (Female)/            1 for 3              56                       19
Vulg (F)               1 pour 3
light/l6ger 3/            EA (Male)/              1 for 3             284                      95
Vulg (H)               1 pour 3
truck/camionette           Mass Media/            1/sub-div.           42                       42
camionnette                Medias                 1/sous-div
light/leger               Cons. mgt/              1 per 2              46                       23
Cons. gestion          1 pour 2
exploitat.
Bus/minibus                ORMVA                  1                    9                        9
1/      At full development of the service.
2!       Field conditions in two ORMVAs (Ouarzazate and Tafilalet) call for use of a 4x4 vehicle.  Budgetwise,
the amount allocated for vehicles has been increased by 20Z to facilitate purchase of a limited number
of 4x4 vehicles, for extension use./Les conditions de terrain dans deux ORMVAs (Ouarzazate et
Tafilalet) n6cessitent l'emploi des voitures tout terrain.   Dans le budget,  le montant pour les
v6hicules a 6t6 augmente de vingt pour cent, pour permettre l'achat d'un nombre limit6 des voitures
tout terrain, destin6es a la vulgarisation.
3/       In some cases, the road conditions are good enough and the distances so short that the extension agents
can use motorcycles.   Each extension service  in the ORMVAs will  decide  in order  to maximize
productivity and efficiency of extension agents./ Dans certains cas, les routes sont assez bonnes et
les distances assez courtes, les vulgarisateurs peuvent utiliser des motocyclettes. Chaque service de
Vulgarisation dans les ORMVAs prendra ces d6cisions dans une optique d'optimiser l'efficacit6 et
l'efficience des vulgarisateurs.
m:\cole\iaadsp\tab123



-  62  -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Women's Program
A. Background
Women's participation in agriculture.
1.    Within the 9 ORMVA areas, three out of four farms are smaller than 5 ha.
Up to 25% of these are managed by women. In others, women are responsible for
much of the labour and are also involved in decision-making. Many of the
small irrigated and rainfed farms in the mountains are entirely run by women.
In addition, women are active as agricultural labourers and, at the other
extreme, some of them are large landholders. As a general rule, women's active
participation in farming varies in reverse ratio to the size and wealth of the
farming unit: the smaller and poorer the farm, the more women work, and the
larger and wealthier the farm, the less women work on the farm.
2.    A number of studies on women's role in agriculture have been carried
out. However, the majority cover relatively small areas and do not provide
generally valid data. Nevertheless, it is clear that women bear the major
responsibility for the care of milk cows in small mixed farms, for small
ruminants when they are kept in the stable, and for poultry and other small
livestock. Women's role in crop production is far less clear beyond the fact
that they play an important part in weeding and harvesting.
Existing Women's Extension Services in the ORMVA
3.    Agricultural extension with women started in four ORMVA (Haouz,
Ouarzazate, Tadla, Tafilalet) after 1988 following the creation of an
extension service within the framework of the Large Scale Irrigation
Improvement Project (LSIIl). By end 1992, there were 4 graduates supervising
women's extension and 34 women extension workers (EA) practicing a form of
contact group extension in pilot CMVs. All the staff have formal agricultural
training but few of them have training in livestock husbandry. The EAs are
young and relatively inexperienced, while the graduate supervisors often lack
the skills required to develop and manage an effective program. In three
ORMVAs (Gharb, Loukkos, Moulouya), a womens' extension service has been
operated for one season; while two ORMVAs (Doukkala, Souss-Massa) have not
started to work with rural women. In those ORMVA where work has started, it
consists primarily of livestock extension with some crop extension on cash-
crop related activities, such as topping of sugar beets, management of chilli
peppers and other vegetables.



- 63 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
B.  The Proiect
Proiect obiectives.
4.    Most women's extension has focussed on agriculture, but there have been
efforts to include health, hygiene and literacy components in the program.
Although the reasoning behind this strategy is understandable, in view of the
small number of staff available and the planned workload, the project would
concentrate on providing women with advice through a strengthened agricultural
extension service. The advice to women would cover increasing their income
from agricultural activities, with the aim to improve rural self-sufficiency
and income levels, while reducing rural emigration. Even with the proposed
staff increases only a small percentage of rural women would be reached by the
project.
Proiect Features.
5.    The project aims to make extension more responsive to the needs of women
farmers and to provide advice more efficiently. The project would have six
main features:
- specific studies to clarify the needs of different categories of women
farmers;
- redeployment of existing staff for women's extension;
- training of all women extension staff;
- the use of group extension for livestock and crops;
- an assistant extensionists' program;
- investment assistance with some small productive agro-industries.
6.    Specific Studies.  Following the diagnostic surveys in each ORMVA (Annex
3), specific studies on female farmer categories may be required to formulate
more responsive advice for women farmers. These studies will be designed with
the support of a consultant and will be carried out by the female extension
staff with the assistance of other extension and technical staff.
7.    Extension Programs and Staffing.  On the basis of the diagnostic study
and subsequent specific studies, extension programs for crop and livestock
production will be agreed upon. This work will be carried out by the current
extension staff of 38 and the additional staff to be redeployed or recruited
under the project - the total force of 56 will be made up of 9 supervisors and
47 extension workers.
8.    Training.  To make extension more responsive to the needs of farmers,
considerable training of staff at all levels will take place. Female staff
will participate in training for diagnostic surveys. In addition 216 weeks of
training for supervisors and about 2500 weeks for extension workers are
planned in extension methods and technical skills.
9.    Assistant Extensionists.  In three ORMVAs (Ouarzazate, Souss-Massa and
Tafilalet), a program of assistant extensionists will be developed. Some 40
village women will be trained in livestock husbandry and some other



- 64 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
agricultural skills and supplied with equipment kits. During the project
period they will be given considerable training (about 8 weeks a year
equivalent to 1600 weeks) and support. They will then be expected to work as
independent operators in their own villages; see Appendix 1.
10.   Small Proiects.  A limited number of small projects will be supported by
the project where they have a clear demonstrative purpose, either technically
or economically. The equivalent of US$15,000 will be budgeted for feasibility
studies in 7 ORMVA. In Tafilalet, the expansion of the D'mane sheep project
will be supported, and, in Ouarzazate, the deployment of Draa goats in the
southern oases as well as a cheese-making unit which would be run as a women's
cooperative.
11. Technical Assistance. The young and relatively inexperienced national
staff would be supported by the technical assistance provided by practically
experienced and culturally/gender sensitive international (21 months budgeted)
and national (34 months) consultants.
Proiect Organization.
12. The women's extension units will be part of the Extension Service (SVOP)
in each ORMVA. Each unit will be headed by a female graduate supervisor. The
extension workers funded under the project will be based at subdivisional
(arrondissement) level. There will be one vehicle for three agents (see Annex
3, Table 3).



- 65 -
ANNEX 4
APPENDIX 1
Page 1
WOMEN'S PROGRAM
APPENDIX 1: THE ASSISTANT EXTENSIONIST PROGRAMME
Introduction
1.   As a result of a successful experiment in the Khenifra area, the
Ministry of Agriculture and Agricultural Development (MAMVA) is interested in
extending the use of female assistant extension agents (AEAs) to other parts
of the country. Recruitment, training and deployment of new AEAs will need
support from the technical assistance team, as well as much of the time and
energy of the graduate women's extension supervisor. The program will
initially be implemented in three ORMVA: Ouarzazate, Souss Massa and
Tafilalet.
Conceot
2.    An ARA is a woman who works in her own village and who has been trained
to carry out certain extension activities. To develop self-reliance and
independence from the civil service, these women would not be project staff
but would, after considerable training and support during the project period,
work as self-employed specialists in their field, hired either on a piece work
basis by those who require their assistance or paid on a regular basis by
their communities. This would be worked out during the project through
negotiations at the community level.
Recruitment
3.    One or two women would be recruited in each participating village.
Criteria for choice include:
- either be literate and formally educated or highly skilled in a
traditional income generating activity;
- be over twenty years old and preferably married;
- be willing to learn and pass on her skills;
- be in need of additional income;
- be respected in the community.
Traininc
4.    Throughout the project period, the AEAs would receive intensive
training. This training would focus on the following:
- teaching and communications methods;
- animal husbandry;
- home hygiene.



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
APPENDIX 1
Page 2
Their training would take the following forms:
- training of a group of AEAs by subject matter specialists from the
ORMVA, at an ORMVA research centre. This would be done in initial two
week stretch, followed by a week's refresher course every 6 months for
each major topic;
- individual on-the-job supervision with a specialized member of staff
pending a day a month with each ARA;
- extension and communication methods training course for two weeks,
followed by annual one week refresher courses;
- regular support from the EA, for whom they would act as helper,
arranging meetings and following up on activities, bringing up problems
experienced.
During training they would be paid expenses, particularly to cover the periods
when they have to be away from home.
Suvervision
5.    AEAs would start practicing their skills in the village with support
from extension workers and SMSs. They would be supervised by the graduate
supervisor of the program.
Work as independent operators
6.    By the end of the second or third year of working under close
supervision and with regular refresher courses, the assistant extensionists
would be formally launched as independent operators. When the supervisor
finds that they are technically competent and relate well and effectively with
their clients, the assistant extensionists could be given a certificate of
competence and a kit of necessary equipment and supplies which would allow
them to operate independently.
Basic criteria for success
7.    The following are essential for success:
- careful selection of candidates;
- back-up and support during the initial period;
- public manifestation of high esteem given to AEAs;
- technical skills;
- clarity on limit of project inputs to training and technical support.



-  67  -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 8
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Promotion of Farmers' Organizations
A. Definitions
1.    In the context of this report, the term Farmer Organization (OP) is
defined as any group of agricultural producers, whatever its legal structure
(Association, Chamber of Agriculture, Cooperative, commercial company or de
facto grouping). The associations and the chambers of agriculture have an
important role to defend farmers' professional interests and to provide advice
on production and group marketing. The agricultural cooperatives and other
forms of grouping need to develop into financially independent organizations
offering their members net financial benefits in undertaking: the provision of
inputs and services and/or providing for packing, processing and marketing of
produce.
2.    There are some 1128 OP in the area covered by the nine ORMVA (see table
1). The project would concentrate its assistance on a selected few groups of
producers according to region and type of produce.
3.    In Morocco, apart from the large producers, the existing OP have rarely
been created without external assistance. Many of them date from the 1970's,
when at the initiative of, or under pressure from the Administration, they
were created to provide a local network for the redistribution of land or the
development of sugar, milk and early vegetable production. Cooperation was
encouraged by the allocation of land and/or subsidies. The relative weakness
of organizations that were created forced the Administration and the ORMVAs to
maintain a costly, technical and financial supervision.
B. Backaround
4.    Today, the viability of the majority of the OP in Morocco, in particular
the many cooperatives with small farmers (Land Reform Cooperatives, Machinery
Groups and the input supply and packing groups) is limited by: small size,
poor links to the markets, difficult access to credit, limited capital and
poor returns, weak management, and limited commitment of their members. This
situation justifies the continuing supervision by the ORMVA but is in itself a
constraint to the promotion of autonomous units with a genuinely cooperative
approach. The early vegetable (for export) and milk enterprises are
exceptions to this rule.
5.    In the Souss, the large early vegetable producers have benefitted from
the liberalization of exports and have regrouped in a small number of export
groups federated in one transport organization. Packing stations are large,



- 68 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 8
either private or cooperative. This enterprise/chain is competitive and meets
the conditions of working within Europe. What is lacking is the integration
of the many medium and small producers who are marketing through many small,
non-viable packing stations.
6.    For the milk enterprise/chain, government support to the dairy
cooperatives and milk collection centers has undoubtedly contributed to the
increase in production and benefitted livestock owners with improved breeds of
cow. The cattle breeders associations are increasingly taking on
responsibility for artificial insemination services and, overall, the sub-
sector is well placed in face of the recent liberalization of the milk price.
7.    The Chambers of Agriculture (CA) have a regional responsibility
designated by their statute of 1962 to represent the farming population and
with certain rural development objectives. In spite of a national program to
relaunch the CA and to twin a number with French CA, their impact remains
limited. The reasons appear to be the lack of interest in an organization
dominated by the large farmers and/or the politicians, the fact that the
younger driving forces in agriculture are not represented and the lack of
financial resources. Elections for the CA were held recently and the
proportion of younger and better educated representatives has risen somewhat.
8.    The ORMVAs have acted on behalf of Government in the creation and
supervision of cooperatives and producer associations, particularly in the
vegetable, milk and sugar enterprises. The identification of the OP to
create, as well as the technical assistance and aid to be provided, was the
responsibility of the Crop Production or Livestock service until the creation
of the Extension Service (SVOP) in 1987. At present, the tasks are divided
between the services; a unit (BOP) within the SVOP is responsible for aiding
farmer organizations with the legal and administrative work of establishment.
Under LSII2, some ORMVAs are also promoting the development of Water User
Associations to take increased responsibilities in the management of the
irrigation network.
C.  Pro-ect Objectives and Actions
Proiect Obiectives
9.    In the context of the liberalization of the economy and divestiture by
the ORMVA, the long term objective is the promotion of farmer organizations
that are efficient, viable and autonomous, at the key points in the food
chain. The Farmer Organization component of the project constitutes a first,
pilot stage in creating a dynamic and fully autonomous network. The objective
is to promote a small number of OP, particularly to concentrate the supply of
selected primary livestock (milk and honey) and crop (fruit and vegetables,
sugarbeet and sugarcane) produce. In five years, these OP should be
sufficiently active, financially viable and autonomous to serve as an example.



- 69 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 8
10.   The project would also aim to train a number of farmer members elected
to OP boards and to become OP managers. At the end of the project, this group
of elected members and managers should be capable not only of managing their
organization, but also of participating actively in the conception and
decision-making on the development of agriculture in their region. In order
to manage the process, it is proposed to create at each ORMVA a Task Force
composed of ORMVA managers and representatives of the agricultural profession.
11.   The project would give priority to the OP whose members have viable,
medium or smaller sized farms capable of integrating into the food chain.
(The modern agricultural sector made up of the larger farmers is generally
well organized since it has the necessary conceptual capacity and financial
resources). The potential viability depends on the capacity to obtain
sufficiently high and stable returns from raising production and increasing
revenues. The young agricultural graduates coming into the profession should
constitute an important source for activating the OP.
Project Actions
12. The main project actions would be: (i) support for planning (regional
diagnosis and preparation of an action plan) with the assistance of
specialized consultants (see Appendix 1), studies, visits to other countries
and by workshops; (ii) the institutional strengthening of selected OP by
training programs for elected members and managers of OP, in the fields of
management, accounting and management of human resources; (iii) grant aid for
innovative investments in technology and/organization which are worth
demonstrating; and (iv) incremental operating costs for the ORMVA executing
the component.
D. Target Farmer Organizations
13.   In view of (i) the diversity of the situation between ORMVA and produce
lines, (ii) the fact that the ORMVAs, initial proposals were not detailed, and
(iii) a flexible approach is necessary to meet the changing situation, the
number and type of OP with which each ORMVA will work is left open. However,
the principal target groups are specified.
14.   The objectives are to: (i) promote those OP of a sufficient size to
create technically and economically efficient organizations including the
regrouping in unions; (ii) promote efficient organization types either as
cooperatives, associations or commercial societies; (iii) encourage the
diversification of activities, particularly for the supply of market
information, inputs and services.



-  70  -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 8
(1) Milk Production
15.   The project would focus on:
- the regional cattle breeders associations with objectives to: (i) take
in hand all artificial insemination by the end of the project; (ii)
establishing a unit for advising on better feeding and herd management;
(iii) the marketing of improved heifers.
- the grouping of milk collection centers (CCL) in order to strengthen
the position of the small producers vis-a-vis the dairies and to develop
input supply and service functions in support of milk producers. The
CCL or their unions should develop stronger links with the breeders
associations through becoming members of the associations.
16.   These actions would be developed with the program of the National Cattle
Breeders Association (ANEB) contracted with the Livestock Department, MARA, to
take over milk recording, production of semen and advice and training of
regional associations.
(2) Other Livestock
17.   The project would support the honey bee cooperatives and associations,
particularly for the processing and better marketing of honey throughout the
year. This support would be integrated with the program of the National Honey
Producers Association (ANAPIM) contracted with the Livestock Department, MARA,
to take over health control actions, the production of improved bees and the
training of cooperative staff.
18.   The project would also support the input supply and service cooperatives
for sheep and goats in Ouarzazate and Tafilalet.
(3) Fruits and Vegetables
19.   The project would focus on those OP for organizing technical and
commercial links between producers and primary buyers and service agencies,
such as the national marketing agency (OCE), cooperative packers, and private
packers and exporters. The strengthening of these basic organizations should
provide a stronger negotiating base for dealing with European importers.
20.   Subject to the region, the main types of produce are early vegetables
(tomatoes, green peppers,....), potatoes, strawberries, citrus and sweet red
peppers. Other produce could be introduced during the project. The
participating OP could benefit from better planning of seeding and harvest,
improved seeds and production techniques, storage (potatoes) and drying
(niora), and the negotiation of contracts with the larger packing units and
market outlets.



- 71 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 8
(4) Su3ar Crove
21.   The sugar factories are now directly responsible for contracting with
farmers, for input supply and for managing the harvest. The project would
assist the strengthening of oroducer associations in the ORMVA of Moulouya,
Loukkos, Gharb and Doukkala, to develop their activities in: (i) negotiation
of cropping programs, harvesting and delivery; (ii) supervision of weighing
and sugar sampling at the factory; and (iii) technical and financial advice
for producers. The procedure of price negotiations should be improved to
encourage the emergence of a national federation of producers better able to
match the processors. Furthermore, the project would encourage the
development of input supply through existing cooperatives, unions etc.
(5) Land Reform Cooperatives (See Table 2)
22.   While members are gradually being given land titles, these cooperatives
are essentially input supply and service cooperatives. Some could benefit
from project assistance with special projects. In the context of the
divestiture program, these cooperatives should take on the cost of the
directors and accountants who are at present in many cases seconded by the
ORMVA.
(6) Chambers of Agriculture (See Table 3)
23.   The three CA of Agadir (Souss-Massa), Larache (Loukkos) and Benni Mellal
(Tadla) do not benefit from a twinning program. These could benefit from
project actions in those cases where their managements are ready to take on
certain advisory actions such as farm management advice. Furthermore, certain
CA could be the center for the proposed Task Force (para 26). Project support
to the CA would be conditional on improved representation of the profession,
availability of financial resources and the application of the staff statute.
E. Proiect OrQanization
Overall ADproach
24.   Following the decentralized approach, the component would be executed by
each of the nine ORMVA with priority given to local or regional (OP). In
order to involve the elected farmer leaders progressively in the development
of the sector, the project would distinguish between planning and execution.
The strategic aspects of regional diagnosis and planning would be handled by
the Task Force made up of ORMVA managers and representatives of the
profession. The execution of specific actions would be handled by the ORMVAs'
Agricultural Department (DDA), particularly by the OP unit in the SVOP. The
execution of part of these actions would gradually be transferred to the
profession. For example, certain Chambers of Agriculture, Cooperative
Federations or Inter-professional organizations could take-on some of the
project actions. These transfers would be subject to conditions of
competence, representativity and own financial resources.



-  72  -
ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 8
Task Force
25. Each ORMVA would establish a Task Force at the start of the project. It
would form the point of conceptualization, planning and monitoring of the
actions to promote the OP. In particular it would: (i) carry out an
assessment of the existing status of OP in the region; (ii) select the
priority produce lines and OP; (iii) approve the annual technical and
financial action plan; (iv) decide on the delegation and transfer activities
or responsibilities to the OP; (v) review requests for assistance from
individual OP; (vi) approve assistance contracts between the ORMVA and an OP;
and (vii) prepare an annual review of progress.
26. The Task Force would comprise a selection of representatives from the
following organizations: (i) elected members of OP in the region
(Cooperatives, Associations, and other professional organizations); (ii) ORMVA
managers; (iii) product groups; (iv) elected members of Chambers of
Agriculture; and (v) private banks and agro-industry. The exact composition,
the nominating process and the chairmanship would be decided locally. If the
conditions permit, the Task Force could be based at the Chamber of
Agriculture, but this is not expected to be the case at the start of the
project.
27. A permanent working group within the Task Force would be responsible for
preparing the regional diagnosis, the annual action plans and the monitoring
of progress.
ORMVAs' Role
28. The Agricultural Development Department (DDA) which will be created
during the reorganization of the ORMVA, will be responsible for the execution
of the component following the technical and financial plan prepared by the
Task force. The DDA will use the resources of its three services with the OP
unit of the SVOP responsible for the coordination of interventions, the
training and management advice to the OP, while the crop and livestock
production services will be responsible for technical advice.
29. The OP unit has few personnel (generally 1 graduate and three
technicians); with the ORMVA salary budget to remain constant there will
little opportunity to increase staffing. Furthermore, much of this unit's
time is spent on the coordination of OP training programs, assistance for
analyzing project proposals and assisting the setting up of OP management.
Under the project, part of the work would be sub-contracted to private
companies or specialized public moroccan companies.



-  73  -
ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 8
Role of the Farmer Organizations
30.   The execution of part or all of the training and advisory actions should
be delegated or transferred to those OP which request it and which are judged
able to carry it out; such as certain Chambers and Associations. The advice
of the Task Force would be sought on this. The necessary staff and financial
resources would also be transferred. The ORMVA would reserve the right to
monitor the results of these OP. These transfers should encourage the
profession to make the necessary charges (direct and as taxes on production)
to eventually cover costs.
F. Institutional Context
31.   Following the appraisal mission's discussions and the preliminary
conclusions of the second phase of the study on cooperatives and farmer
organizations, it would appear that the development of the OP is constrained
by the absence of clear and well adapted statutes, by the difficult access to
the credit system and the lack of their financial resources.
Statutes
32.   The Cooperative Charter promulgated in 1984 is not yet applied.  The
application text and the model statute by sub-sector should be submitted for
approval and application as soon as possible. The new charter would
substitute for several laws dating from the colonial period with the advantage
of clarifying the internal operating conditions as well as the role of the
State. In terms of decision making and management, the new charter provides
for cooperative rights favorable to the emergence of fully autonomous
enterprises, although the means of remunerating social capital, the
territorial monopoly clause and the clause restricting purchases from non-
members should be reexamined. The charter allows for the acceleration of the
approval of new cooperatives by the Administration to a maximum of three
months.
33.   A 1958 law sets the statute for all associations limiting the
constitution of their capital and their own sources of income. Moreover, only
associations of recognized public interest have access to subventions. A
separate statute for professional associations would enable present
ambiguities (some associations with obligatory charge on production and
membership - sugar) to be clarified and stimulate the development of
autonomous associations.
34.   The statute of the Chambers of Agriculture should be amended to enable
OP representatives to participate in the decisions taken by the Chambers.
While waiting for the necessary legislation, the Chambers would be permitted
to co-opt OP representatives.



-  74  -
ANNEX S
Page 8 of 8
Access to Credit
35.   At present, in view of their limited resources and difficulties of
recovery, the banks, and particularly CNCA, demand personal guarantees from
each member of a cooperative before making loans. If one member refuses, the
process is blocked. A mutual guarantee fund by region or product group could
facilitate access to credit for any OP able to show a capacity to generate
sufficient returns. This guarantee fund should enable banks to lend at normal
interest rates. The mutual guarantee fund could be set up at the level of a
cooperative union with a charge proportional to the amount guaranteed.
Financial Resources
36.   MAMVA has prepared texts proposing taxes on selected locally produced
and imported products to provide funds for producer groups and Chambers of
Agriculture. The initial tax is relatively low but could be increased in the
future once the organizations have demonstrated their utility.



-  75  -
ANNEX5
APPENDIX 1
Page 1
Promotion of Farmers' Organizations
Outline Terms of Reference for Consultants
A) Obiectives
1.    During the project, task forces created in each ORMVA will be joined by
a team of three high caliber experts, covering the principal sub-sectors, as
well as organization and privatization aspects. This team should be provided
by a firm reputed internationally, having the required experience in these
fields.
2.    The task force will carry out the regional analysis, will prepare the
action plan for working with farmers' organizations and will monitor
execution of the plan. The approach will be flexible, with the interested
parties, making up the task force, conducting the interviews, the analysis,
the diagnosis and write-up with the support of the Consultant. The Consultant
should provide this task force with a capacity for analysis and experience
beyond Morocco covering inter alia, Western European markets and the
possibilities of setting up partnerships.
3.    The Consultant team which includes three experts, (including the team-
leader) will carry out short-term missions (about one month three times a year
and by ORMVA during year 2 and 3 of the project, and less frequently
thereafter). In view of the more limited options, in Ouarzazate and
Tafilalet, they have been allocated half of the time proposed for the other
ORMVAs. The total budget consultant input is 90 months, or an average of 10
months by ORMVA over five-years - 2 months by ORMVA per year.
4.    In order to facilitate the work, the project would work with the ORMVA
in three regional sub-groups (South, Center and North). A consultant from the
team will be placed in each sub-group; his specialization would depend on the
predominant subsectors in the region.
B) Tasks
5.    The consultant will intervene particularly on the following aspects:
- study of existing farmer organizations.
- assistance in the selection of members of the work groups.
- diagnosis of the different sub-sectors and selection of priorities
for assistance.
- preparation of multi-year action plan.
- terms of reference and start-up of complementary studies.
- elaboration of training programs and guidance to farmer
organizations.



-  76  -
ANNEX 5
APPENDIX 1
Page 2
- conception of training seminars.
- organization of study trips to other countries.
- criteria for measuring the impact of the project.
- method of monitoring and evaluation.
C) Profile reauired
The ability and capacity required for this team, to be combined in the 3
experts, will be the following:
- minimum 15 years of professional experience;
- good knowledge of strategy, structure and organization of
european professional agricultural sector;
- good knowledge of organization, functioning of and economy of
sub-sectors as sugar and milk.
- confirmed experience of the Maghreb.
- experience of business management.
m:\cole\iaadsp\trtrans



-   77   -                                         ANNEX  5
Tables  1 & 2
TABLE 1: Farmers' Organizations/Organisations Professionnelles Agricoles
ORJVA                 Cooperatives              Cooperatives &       CLIA 1/   CRA 2/  Total
Coop./ass. de           milk collect.
services 3/           Coop./Ass./CCL
Doukkala                   60                        46                n.c. 4/  53       159
Gharb                      14                        72                 7       145      238
Haouz                      98                        45                21        80      244
Loukkos                    16                        14                11        27       68
Moulouya                  Union 5/                    8                10        12       31
Ouarzazate                 34                         8                 9         -       51
Souss Massa               121                        29                 -        15      165
Tadla                      11                        50                14        23       98
TafiLalet                  59                         2                13         -       74
TotaL                     414                        274               85       355      1128
Source :ORVAs Files/Dossiers des Offices.
1/      CUMA = Use of agricultural equipment cooperative/Coop6ratives d'utiLisation de mat6riels agricotes.
2/      CRA  = AgricuLtural Land Reform Cooperatives/Cooperatives de La Reforme Agraire.
3/      Vegetables, beekeeping, rabbit-rearing, oil-seed, including cooperatives unions/Maraichers,
apiculture, cuniculture, oleiculture, y compris les unions.
4/      n.c. = unknown/non-connu.
5/      Composition of unknown association/Composition de L'union non-connue.
TABLE 2: Land Reform Cooperatives/Cooperatives de Reforme Agraire dans les 9 Offices 
No. of Cooperatives/       Useful Agricul. Area/           RangeLand Cooperatives/
Nombre de Cooperatives       Superficies Agricoles Utiles    Cooperatives dans
Irrigated/  Others/ Total/   Irrigated/ Others/   Total            les parcours
Offices                 Irrigue      Autres  TotaL    Irrigue    Autres    Total
---------Nbre---------   --------------ha-----------    ------------ha----------
MouLouya                   12           -       12      4023         755         4778             2016
Loukkos                    25          2       27       7075        1128         8203             1572
Gharb                      72         73      145      11920       22727       34647                531
Doukkala                   30         23       53       3817        7054        12082              1211
Souss Massa                15           -      15       4628          -         4628
Tadla                      22           1      23       2554         440         2994              1949
Naouz                      65         15       80      17532        1227        18759             4338
Total            241         114     355      51549       33331        84880             11617
Source : Direction of Cooperatives of Agricultural Reform.
Direction des Cooperatives de la Reforme Agraire.
J/     ORMVAs of Tafilalet and Ouarzazate do not have cooperatives of agricultural reform/Les Offices de
Tafilalet et Ouarzazate n'ont pas de Cooperatives de r6forme agraire.



- 78 -
ANNEX 5
Table 3
TABLE 3: Chambers of Agriculture/Chambres d'AQriculture
Location/Sieges          Region/Province             Founded/Cr6ation
Agadir                   Agadir                          1962
Al Hociema               Al Hoceima                      1977
Azilal                   Azilal                          1962
Beni Mellal              Beni Mellal                     1977
Chaouen                  Chaouen                         1967
El Jadida                El Jadida                       1977
Kelaa Seraghna           El Kelaa des Seraghna           1962
Errachidia               Errachidia                      1977
Essaouira                Essaouira                       1962
Fes                      Fes                             1977
Kenitra                  Kenitra, Sidi Kecem             1977
Khemisset                Khemisset, Rabat-Sale           1977
Khenifra                 Khenifra                        1977
Khouribga                Khouribga                       1977
Laayoune                 Laayoune, Essmara, Boujdour   1962
Marrakech                Marrakech                       1962
Meknes                   Meknes                          1962
Nador                    Nador                           1962
Ouarzazate               Ouarzazate                      1962
Oujda                    Oujda, Figuig                   1962
Safi                     Safi                            1977
Settat                   Settat, Prefecture de Casa    1962
Taza                     Taza                            1962
Tetouan                  Tetouan, Tanger                 1977
Tiznit                   Tiznit                          1984
Tan-Tan                  Tan-Tan                         1984
Taounate                 Taounate                        1984
Boulmane                 Boulmane, Missour               1984
Ben Slimane              Ben Slimane, Casablanca         1984
Bouarafa                 Bouarafa                        1984
F6deration Nationale    Territoire Nationale            1963



-  79  -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Staff & Farmer Training Program
Overview
1.    The training needs which have been broadly determined during the
management study undertaken during LSII2 and preparation of the proposed
project, will be up-dated following a skills gap analysis to be carried out
early in the project. About 6% of project costs are assigned to training.
Provisions are summarized in Tables A, 1 - 3 and B.
Staff & Farmer Training - Agricultural Extension Services
2.    Following the skills gap analysis, a training plan will be prepared
covering four levels : initial training, in-service training, overseas
training and farmers' training.
3.     Initial Training.  Extension agents will receive six weeks of initial
training in : (i) the project rationale, strategy and organization; (ii) the
principles of extension, information as a production factor, talking and
listening skills; (iii) interviewing techniques, participatory assistance,
diagnostic surveying; (iv) working with groups, group dynamics; (v)
demonstrations and communication; and (vi) planning working time. Extension
coordinators and members of the technical specialists unit will receive the
same six weeks initial training plus two weeks of training in staff
management, conflict resolution and task delimitation. The heads of the
extension services will receive all eight weeks plus two weeks in work
planning. Videos and manuals will be prepared to be used by staff day-to-day.
A total of about 1500 person-weeks of initial training are scheduled.
4.    In-service training.  All staff will receive in-service training but the
program will focus particularly on extension agents and members of the
technical specialists team, including the coordinator as follows:
(i) Extension agents will participate in regular sessions organized by
the coordinator with the assistance of the technical specialists.
Timing will depend on local farming conditions and on the level of
staff; in general there will be sessions at two, three or four weekly
intervals. Agents will be trained to design, implement and evaluate on-
farm demonstrations.
(ii) The technical specialists will participate in regular workshops
with research and training institutes. Two-day sessions will be
coordinated by the service head. The objectives of these workshops will
include to (a) review the impact of current farming conditions on the



- 80 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 4
extension program, (b) inform technical specialists of the status of
research following the diagnostic survey, (c) discuss technical matters
And (d) support on-going demonstration and extension programs.
(iii) The coordinator (head of the technical unit) will be trained in
staff supervision, the preparation of programs responsive to farmers'
needs and the whole-farm approach to determining profitability.
5.    Overseas Training.  The project includes provision for practical
training overseas, observation tours and attendance at seminars, conferences
and workshops. A total of 20 weeks per ORMVA per year have been budgeted, or
a total of 900 weeks.
6.    Farmer Training.  Information on the project would be provided to about
forty male and forty female farmers per sub-division for a week at a time; a
total of 3360 farmer-weeks. Provision is also made for each ORMVA to send ten
groups of about 25 farmers on 2-week study tours within the country, and to
send one group a year on a 2-week study tour overseas.
Crop and Animal Production Services
7.    Training to up-grade technical skills would be provided for staff of the
crop and animal production services who will be responsible for the adaptive
research program, for the support services, for advising farmers and working
with the extension services. Provisions are summarized in table B.
Farmers' Organizations
8.    The project provides for training of ORMVA staff as well as the staff
and members of farmers' organizations. Training will take the form of
seminars and the execution of a regional training program for staff and
members of farmers' organizations. The seminars will be organized to cover
several ORMVA. They would cover principally experiences in countries with a
more developed agro-industry and would focus on management systems, financial
management and personnel matters etc. of different sub-sectors. About 60
people (in two groups) drawn from the ORMVA and OP would be expected to
participate each time. Lasting for one to two weeks they would be held
perhaps twice in the first two years and once in the subsequent three years.
The organization of seminars would be sub-contracted to consultants.
9.    The subjects to be covered by the regional oroaram for the staff and
members of the Farmers' Organizations would be to raise their management
capacity. The subjects would include : (i) the operation of local and
overseas markets; (ii) organization of the sub-sectors, value added and



- 81 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
investment thresholds; (iii) strategic business planning; (iv) project
analysis and execution; (v) management accounting; and (vi) personnel
management. The program would be carried by ORMVA staff or partly sub-
contracted to local training agencies. Twenty person-months per ORMVA (10 for
Ouarzazate and Tafilalet) are budgeted from years 2 - 5. The consultants
recruited to work with the ORMVA under the OP component would assist the
training.
A. AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND WOMEN'S SERVICES/VULGARISATION AGRICOLZ ET
ANIMATION FEMININE
1. Initial Training/Formation Initials
(weeks/semaines)
Subject/sujet        CES/       Chief        Spec. Mat./    Ext. Agent/           Ext. Agent/            Fm Mngt Ad./CGE
CSV       Tech./       Membre EP        Vulgar. (H)         Ext  Vulgar. (F)
Chef BAT
Project                  1           1              1                 1                    1                            1
Objectives/Objec
tifs du Projet
Extension                1           1              1                 1                    1                            1
Princ./Principes
vulgarisation
Joint                    1           1              1
evatuation/
Evaluation
participative
Work in groups/                      1              1                 1                    1                            1
TravaiL de
groupe
Demos/Ddmonstrat                     1              1                 1                    1                            1
ions
Ptanning/PLanifi         1           1              1                 111
cat ion
Accounting/Cot                       1              1                                                                   1
abilit6__                                                        _ _ _  _ _ _  _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _   _ _  _
Staff                    2           2
mangt . /Gest ion
personnel
Regional                 2
plan./Planific'n
regionale
Others/Autres '          2           2              2                 2                    2                            2
TOTAL             10         11              9                 8                     8                           8
1/       Including between others, radio broadcasting  training, use of GIS and of specialized  systema./y  compuia,
entre autres, la formation aux programnnes de radio, l'utUsation des SIG et les syst6mea sp6cialis6s.



- 82 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4
2.  In-Service Training/Formtion Continue
Staff/Personnel                              Frequency/Frequence             Subjects/Sujets
Extension agents (male  &             once every two, three or four          following zonal priorities fixed
female) Vulgarisateurs,               weeks/1 fois toutes les 2, 3 ou 4   during diagnostic studies and
vulgarisatrices                       semai nes                              subsequent round table/suite les
priorit6s de vulgarisation,
identifi6es lors de l'enquete
diagnostique, et agr6ees Lors de
la table ronde.
Chief technical units/Chefs BAT       once a month/i fois tous les mois   staff management, farm
economnics, imrpact of extension
based on m/e reports/ gestion du
personnel, rentabilit6 des
exploitations, effets de la
vulgarisation, bas6 sur les
rapports du Bureau Suivi au
niveau Siege
Technical specialists/Membres EP    once a month/i fois tous Les mois   technical and economic aspects
of production according to zonal
priorities/aspects techniques et
economiques de la production,
base sur la predominance des
diff6rents typotogies des
agri cul teurs/tr ices
3. Overses Training/Forution a l'Etranger
OR4VA                                 Frequency/Frequence                  | Total
Extension staff/personnel             20 weeks/year/ORMVA                   900 person-weeks/personnes-
vulgarisation                                                                semaines 
B. ADAPTIVE RESEARCH AND TECHNICAL SWFPPRT
Training for Crop *nd Livestock Specialists/Formtion Spiciatistes techniques
Service/Service          Overseas (3mths)/h   Local graduates /             Local          Local in groups/
l'6tranger (3mois)      cadres Locaux        technicians /       local en groupe
techn ic iens
locaux
Crops/cultures                    37                    89                   176                  44
Livestock/elevage                 11                    25                   66                   44
Total                             48                    114                  242                  88
Av.per ORMVA                      5                     13                   27                   10
/Royenne par ORNVA                          -j
N: \coe\iaadsp\annex6
See Annex 4 (Feminine Extension) for details on additional training of extensionisbt to improve tieir work
particularly with womon./ Voir Annexe 4 (Animation Fmninine) pour lea d6bils sur a formation additionelle des
vulgaisatrices, pour am6liorer leur travail avec les femmes en particulier.



-    8 3     -ANNEX  7
Table  1
MOROCCO - PROJET DE SOUTIEN AU DEVELOPPEMENT AGRICOLE (PSDA)                                                         %       % Total
Components Project Cost Summay                                   (OH 0001                     (USS 000)            Foreign    Base
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange   Coats
A. ORMVA DOUKKALA
Vulgarization                                             9,4^49.4   2,888.3  12,337.7   1,049.9    320.9   1,370.9      23        5
Vulganration feminine                                      741.4    209.7    961.1       62.4      23.3    106.7         22
Associations profesajonneis                               1,108.4   2.527.9   3,68.3    123.2    280.9    404.0          70        1
Production vegetale                                       5,3032    3,462.6   8,765.8    5892     384.7    974.0        40         3
Elevage                                                   1,692.0   1,013.9   2,705.9    188.0    112.7    300.7        37         1
Subtotal ORMVA DOUKKALA                                    18,294.3  10,102.3  28,396.7   2,032.7   1,122.5   3,155.2      36       11
B. ORMVA GHARB
Vulgarization                                            10,509.4   3,254.8  13,7642    1,167.7    381.6   1,529.4       24        5
Vulgarisation feminine,                                    873.8    341.2   1,216.0      97.1      37.9    135.0         28
Associations profesiionnellee                             1,108.4   2,527.9   3,838.3    123.2    280.9    404.0         70        1
Production vegetale                                       4,008.3   2,7452    6,751.5    445.1    305.0     7502        41         3
Elevuge                                                   1,289.8    858.0   2,147.6    143.3      95.3    238.6        40         1
Subtotal ORMVA GHARtS                                      17,787.7   9,727.0  27,514.7   1,976.4   1,080.8   3,0572       35        10
C. ORMVA HAOUZ
Vulgariastion                                             8,258.6   2,523.5  10,782.1    917.6    280.4   1,198.0        23        4
Vulgarisation feminine                                     641.9    167.6    809.5       71.3      18.6      89.9        21         -
Assoistions professlonnelleb                              1,092.2   2,503.4   3,595.6    121.4    2782      389.5        70        1
Production vegettel                                       2,9192    1,890.5   4,809.7    324.4    210.1     534.4       39         2
Ebvage                                                    3,940.1   1,307.4   5,247.5    437.8    145.3    583.1        25         2
Subtotal ORMVA HAOUZ                                       16,852.1   8,392.3  25,244.4   1,872.6    932.5   2,804.9       33        9
0. ORMVA LOUKKOS
Vulgarisation                                             9,069.8   2,840.1  11,909.8   1,007.8    315.6   1,323.3       24        4
Vulgarisation feminine                                    1,315.9    209.7   1,525.6    146.2      23.3    169.5         14        1
Associations professionnelts                              1,108.4   2,527.9   3,638.3    1232     280.9    404.0         70         1
Production vegetale                                       4,145.9   2,523.3   6,6692    460.7    280.4    741.0         38         2
Elevage                                                    988.8    668.5   1,657.1    109.8       74.3    184.1        40         1
Subtotal ORMVA LOUKKOS                                     16,628.6   8,769.4  25,398.0   1,847.6    974.4   2,822.0       35        9
E ORMVA MOULOUYA
Vulgarisation                                             8,077.9   2,688.8  10,746.7    897.5    296.5   1,194.1        25        4
Vulgarisation feminine                                    1,099.6    157.3   1,258.9    122.2      17.5    139.7         13
Associations profeionneles                                1.0922   2,503.4   3,595.8     121.4    2782      399.5        70         1
Production vegetale                                       5,123.8   4,373.0   9,498.8    589.3    485.9   1,0552        48         4
Elevage                                                   1,133.7    838.1   1,971.8    126.0      93.1     219.1       43         1
Subtotal ORMVA MOULOUYA                                    16.5272   10,540.7  27,067.9   1,836.4   1,1712    3,007.5      39        10
F. ORMVA OUARZAZATE
Vulgarisation                                             8,361.9   2,985.5  11,327.4    929.1    329.5   1258.6         28        4
Vulgarsation feminine                                     1,757.1    169.9   1,927.0     1952      18.      214.1         9         I
Associations profesonnelle                                1,100.3   2,515.7   3,616.0    122.3    279.5    401.8         70        1
Production vegetale                                       3,015.1   2,855.2   5,870.3    335.0    3172      652.3       49         2
Elevage                                                   1,064.4   1,143.3   2,207.7    118.3    127.0    245.3        52         1
Subtotal ORMVA OUARZAZATE                                  15,298.7   9,649.7  24,948.4   1,699.9   1,0722    2,772.0      39        9
G. ORMVA SOUSS MASSA
Vulgarisalion                                             7,380.3   2,280.8   9,641.1   817.8    253.4   1,0712         24         4
Vulgatisation feminine                                    1,279.2    1612    1,440.4    142.1      17.9    160.0        11         1
Associations professionnelke                              1,100.3   2,515.7   3,616.0    122.3    279.5    401.8        70         1
Production vegetate                                       4,282.9   3,257.7   7,540.6    475.9    362.0     837.8       43         3
Elevage                                                    921.0    792.8   1,713.7    102.3       88.1     190.4       48         1
Subtotal ORMVA SOUSS MASSA                                 14,943.7   9,W002   23,951.9   1,60.4   1,000.9   2,661.3       38        9
M. ORMVA TAOLA
Vulgarization                                             9,626.4   3,252.4  12,878.8   1,069.6    361.4   1,431.0       25        5
Vulgarisatlon feminine                                     735.7    199.1    934.8        81.7     22.1     103.9        21
Associations profedaonnell_                               1,108.4   2,527.9   3,636.3    1232     280.9    404.0         70        1
Production vegetate                                       3,917.4   2,504.4   8,421.9    435.3    278.3     713.5       39         2
ElWage                                                    1,192.8   1,039.4   2,232.1    132.5    115.5    248.0        47         1
Subtotal ORMVA TADLA                                       16.580.7   9,5232   26,103.9   1,842.3   1,058.1   2,900.4      36        10
I. ORMVA TAFILALET
Vulgarisation                                             7,893.7   2,742.4  10,636.1    877.1    304.7   1,181.8        26        4
Vulgarisalionbfminine                                     1,361.3    1852    1,548.5    151.3      20.6    171.8         12         1
Asociations profftsionn4.ts                               1.100W3   2,515.7   3,816.0    122.3    279.5     401.8        70         1
Production vegebbe                                        2,457.4   2,138.8   4,594.3    273.0    237.4    510.5        47         2
Elevage                                                   1,226.6    724.0   1,950.6    136.3      80.4    216.7         37        1
Subtotal ORMVA TAFILALET                                   14,039.3   8,304.1  22,343.5   1,559.9    922.7   2,482.6       37        8
J. OWSERVATOIRE                                             6,974.7   3,362.7  10,337.4    775.0    373.8   1,148.6        33         4
K. ETUDES                                                   2,275.7   3,433.8   5,709.3    252.9    381.5    634.4         60        2
L. ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE POUR LA VULOARISATIO                3,442.0   4,704.7   8,146.7    382.4    522.7    9062          so        3
M. ETUDES & SEUwNAIRES POUR OP                              3,525.3   7,279.9  10,802      391.7    S08.9   1,200.8        67        4
N. CELLULE DU PROJET                                          3223     448.9    7712        35.8     49.9      85.7        S8
O.DIRECTIONPROTECTIONDESVEGETAUX                              513.3    510.8   1,024.2      57.0      58.8    113.8        50
Total BASELINE COSTS                                       164,006.7 103,757.7 267,763.5  18,222.9  11,528.8  29,751.5     39       100
Physical Contingencin                                     3,6982    4,958.6   8.853.8    410.6    551.0    951.5         57        3
Price Contingencies                                      27,038.8   9,290.8  3e,329.6   3,004.3   1,032.3   4,038.6     26        14
Total PROJECTCOSTS                                         194,739.6  118,007.2 312,746.8  21,637.7  13,111.9  34,749.8    36       117



-   84   -                                        ANNEX  7
Table 2
MOROCCO - PROJET DE SOUTIEN AU DEVELOPPEMENT AGRICOLE (PSOA)
Project Components by Yeoar - Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including ContIngencels (OH 000)            Totals Including Contingencies (USS '000)
A. ORMVA DOUKKALA               19l4    1996    1996    1197    1919       Total    1194    19SI     196    1997    119t    Total
Vulgarleation                 1,482.0  3,774.0  2,709.9  3,333.3  3,171.1  14,470.4   164.7   419.3   301.1   370.4   352.3  1,li07.
Vulgarisation feminine         371.1   314.8   128.3   134.4   140.6   1,089.1    41.2    36.0    14.3    14.9    15.6   121.0
Assoiations professionneIls    322.9   794.7  1,231.8  1,282.2   514.5   4,146.1    35.9    88.3   136.9   142.5    572    480.7
Production vegetale             47.2  3,521.1  3,371.3  1,767.1  1,622.6  10,329.3   5.2   391.2   374.6   196.3   180.3  1.147.7
Etevage                            -  1,33fi.7   816.3   487.5   482.5   3,123.1       -   148.5    90.7    54.2    53.6   347.0
Subtotal ORMVA DOUKKALA         2,2232  9741.3  8,257.7  7,004.5  5,931.3  33158.1   247.0  1,082.4   917.5   778.3   659.0  3,6o4.2
B. ORMVA GHARB
Vulgarlsation                 1,597.6  4,084.1  3,832.6  3,130.1  3,490.0  16,134.4   177.5   453.8   425.8   347.8   387.8  1,792.7
Vulgarisation feminine         389.4   295.8   252.6   289.4   194.1   1,421.4    43.3    32.9    28.1    32.2    21.6   157.9
Assoiations protessionnelia    322.9   794.7  1,231.8  1,282.2   514.5   4,146.1    35.9    88.3   136.9   142.5    57.2   460.7
Production vwgetale                   2,540.6  3,292.3  1,131.2   964.6   7,948.8      -   282.3   365.8   125.7   109.4   883.2
Elevage                            -   813.6  1,091.5   386.3   202.3   2,493.6        -    90.4   121.3    42.9    22.5   277.1
Subtotal ORMVA OHARS            2,309.9  ,528.8  9,700.8  6,219.2  5,385.5  32,144.3   256.7   947.6  1,077.9   691.0   598.4  3,571.6
C. ORMVA HAOUZ
Vulgarization                  743.2  1,780.4  3,351.5  3,887.5  3,0682   12,830.8    82.6   197.8   372.4   431.9   340.9  1,425.6
Vulgarisation feminine         249.6    91.8   349.2   121.3   126.9    938.8    27.7    10.2    38.8    13.5    14.1   104.3
Associations professionnelles  156.1   466.1  1,331.3  1,282.2   916.1   4,151.8    17.3    51.8   147.9   142.5   101.8   461.3
Production vegetale                -   483.5  2,420.7  1,9212    939.5   5,764.9       -    53.7   269.0   213.5   104.4   640.5
Elevage                        527.9   954.4  1,992.4  1,732.5   963.8   6,171.0    5.7   106.0   221.4   192.5   107.1   685.7
5ubtotal ORMVA HAOUZ            1,676.8  3,776.1   9,445.1  8,944.8  6,014.6  29,857.3   186.3   419.6  1,049.5   993.9   668.3  3,317.5
0. ORMVA LOUKKOS
Vulgarisation                 1,431.2  3,418.8  3,454.6  2,903.8  2,714.0  13,922.4   159.0   379.9   383.8   322.6   301.6  1,546.9
Vulgarisation feminine         389.4   497.0   298.8   294.8   264.7   1,744.7    43.3    55.2    33.2    32.8    29.4   193.9
Associations professionnelles  322.9   794.7  1,231.8  1,282.2   514.5   4,146.1    35.9    88.3   136.9   142.5    57.2   460.7
Production vegetate             20.8  2,262.9  2,701.2  1,290.3  1,563.5   7,838.7   2.3   251.4   300.1   143.4   173.7   871.0
Elevage                                 958.6   296.4   332.7   314.5   1,902.3        -   106.5    32.9    37.0    34.9   211.4
Subtotal ORMVALOUKKOS           2,164.4  7,931.9  7,982.8  6,103.9  5,3712  29,554.3   240.5   881.3   887.0   678.2   596.8  3,283.8
E. ORMVA MOULOUYA
Vulgarisation                  661.2  1,704.2  3,499.0  3,853.1  3,073.2  12,790.7    73.5   189.4   388.8   428.1   341.5  1,421.2
Vulgarisation feminine         229.3   274.5   451.3   271.2   221.1   1,447.5    25.5    30.5    50.1    30.1    24.6   160.8
Asociaionsprofesionnell.s     156.1   466.1  1,331.3  1,282.2   916.1   4,151.8    17.3    51.8   147.9   142.5   101.8   461.3
Production vegetate             83.8   450.7  5,982.5  3,7S3.4  1,181.6  11,482.0    9.3    50.1   664.7   420.4   131.3  1,275.8
Elevage                         37.0   304.3  1,228.6   511.7   227.6   2,309.2      4.1    33.8   136.5    56.9    25.3   256.6
Subtotal ORdVA MOULOUVA         1,167.3  3,199.8  12,492.8  9,701.7  5,619.7  32,1812    129.7   3S5.5  1,388.1  1,078.0   624.4  3,5757
P. ORMVA OUARZAZATE
Vulgarisation                  734.0  1,718.0  3,980.6  3,852.1  3,231.1  13,516.0    81.6   190.9   442.3   428.0   359.0  1,501.8
Vulgarieation feminine         239.5   573.7   546.0   485.3   383.5   2,228.0    26.6    63.7    60.7    53.9    42.6   247.8
A"ociations profesaionnelle    156.1   585.6  1,231.8  1,282.2   916.1   4,171.8    17.3    65.1   138.9   142.5   101.8   483.5
Production vwgetalb             31.4   171.0  2,115.7  3,706.0  1,224.8   7,248.8    3.5    19.0   235.1   411.8   136.1   806.4
Etwvage                         31.7    49.8  1,823.2   532.6   215.1   2,652.5      3.5     5.5   202.6    59.2    23.9   294.7
SubtotalORMVAOUARZAZATE         1,192.6  3,098. 1    19,74   Jr   5,970.6  29,817.0   132.5   344.2  1,077.5  1,095.4   663.4  T3,31
G. ORMVA SOUSS MASSA
Vulgarieatlon                  888.0  1,426.1  3,480.5  2,917.2  2.723.3  11.435.1    98.7   158.5   386.7   324.1   302.6  1,270.6
Vulgartsation feminine         229.3   394.0   432.4   336.6   264.6   1,656.9    25.5    43.8    48.0    37.4    29.4   164.1
Asociations professionnello    156.1   585.8  1,231.8  1,282.2   916.1   4,171.8    17.3    68.1   136.9   142.5   101.8   463.5
Productionwvgetale              57.8   635.3  3,251.1  4,299.3   874.9   9,118.3     6.4    70.6   3612    477.7    97.2  1,013.1
Elevage                         42.2   60.4  S4.5   369.3   349.2   2,015.7         4.7    72.3    64.9    43.3    38.8   224.0
Subtotal ORMVA SOUSS MASSA      1,373.4  3,691.4  8,980.3   9,224.5  5,1282  28.397.9   152.6   410.2   997.8  1,024.9   569.8  3,155.3
H. ORMVA TADLA
Vulgarieation                 1,418.5  4,045.0  3,677.3  3,010.8  2,947.9  15,099.6   157.6   449.4   408.6   334.5   327.5  1,677.7
Vulgarization feminine         380.2   286.4   128.3   134.4   140.6   1,069.8    42.2    31.8    14.3    14.9    15.8   118.9
Associations profesionnellee   322.9   794.7  1,231.8  1,22.2   514.5   4,146.1    35.9    88.3   136.9   142.5    572    460.7
Production vegetale             52.4  3,094.7  2,304.5  1,041.7  1,039.5   7,532.7   5.8   343.9   256.1   115.7   115.5   837.0
Elevage                         42.2  1,120.4   776.6   362.4   277.5   2,579.1      4.7   124.5    88.3    40.3    30.8   286.6
Subtotal ORMVATADLA             2,216.3  9,341.1  8,118.4  5,831.5  4,920.0  30,427.3   248.3  1,037.9   902.0   647.9   548.7  3,380.8
I. ORMVA TAFILALET
Vulgarisation                  652.9  1,591.9  3,727.2  3,743.9  2,963.5  12,679.5    72.5   176.9   414.1   416.0   329.3  1,408.8
Vulgarisation feminine         239.5   600.1   357.9   260.7   293.1   1,771.3    26.6    66.7    39.8    31.2    32.6   196.8
Associations profesionnolle    156.1   943.7  1,231.8  1,282.2   514.5   4,128.3    17.3   104.9   136.9   142.5    57.2   458.7
Production vegetale             52.8   312.6  2,403.9  2,164.4   612.6   5,566.3     5.9    34.7   267.1   242.7    68.1   618.5
Eevage                          26.4   296.7  1,0S1.0   421.4   451.4   2,278.9      2.9    33.2   120.1    46.8    50.2   253.2
Subtotal ORMVATAFILALZT  ~~1,127.7  3,747.0  8,0.   7,1.    ,3.    644       125.3   416.3   978.0   879.2   63712  2,1936.0
Subtotal ORfdVA TAFILA     L     E        T       "O   1  7,4r12    54 2124741_
J. OBSERVATOIRE                 1,3S4.6  3,204.5  1,990.6  2,080.7  3,076.6  11,737.0   153.8   356.1   221.2   231.2   341.8  1,304.1
K. ETUDES                            -  1,515.6  1,569.2  1,624.3  1,680.8   6,390.0     -   168.4   174.4   180.5   188.8   710.0
L. ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE POUR   1,89.2  2,902.1  2,771.5  1,153.7       -   8,723.4   210.7   322.5   307.9   128.2         -   969.3
M. ETUDES & SEPANAIRES POUR 0   1,019.7  3,W9.3  2,856.7  2,585.4  1,528.1  11.799.2   113.3   423.3   317.4   287.3   169.8  1,311.0
N. CELLULE DU PROJET                 -   576.3   105.5   109.4   113.4    904.5               64.0    11.7    12.2    12.6   100.5
0. DIRECTION PROTECTION DES V        -   883.2   111.6   11t6         4   1.2311         -    98.1    12.4    12.9    13.4   136.8
Total PROJECT COSTS            19,752.2 65,946.7                  55,95.4 312746.8  2,194.7  7,327.4 10,320.2  8,718.9  8,188.4 34,79.



-  85  -                                     ANNEX  7
Table 3
MOROCCO
PROJET DE SOUTIEN AU DEVELOPPEMENT AGRICOLE (PSDA)
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Sunmnary
%     % Total
(DH '000)                (USS '000)         Foreign   Base
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Batiments                     5,870.7  3,945.6  9,816.3   652.3   438.4  1,090.7       40       4
B. Vehicules                    10,842.4  8,936.2  19,778.6  1,204.7   992.9  2,197.6     45       7
C. Equipernent
Equipement agrcole             8,554.8  16,032.2  24,587.0    950.5  1,781.4  2,731.9   65       9
Equip. exper. & laboratoire    1,291.6  2,411.0  3,702.5    143.5   267.9    411.4      65       1
Equipement audio-visuel        1,862.9  3,477.3  5,340.2   207.0    386.4    593.4      65       2
Equipement bureau & info.      1,900.1  3,546.9  5,447.0   211.1    394.1    605.2      65       2
Equipement elevage             2,827.4  5,298.8  8,126.2    314.2   588.8    902.9      65       3
Equipement vulgarisation        520.9   972.3  1,493.2    57.9    108.0    165.9        65       1
Subtotal Equipernent            16,957.7  31,738.5  48,696.2  1,884.2  3,526.5  5,410.7   65      18
D. Formation
Formation locale              17,224.1       - 17,224.1  1,913.8       -  1,913.8        -       6
Formation a retranger           564.5  5,126.6  5,691.1     62.7   569.6    632.3       90       2
Vulgarisatrice                  475.0        -    475.0    52.8        -     52.8
Assistantes vulgaris.           375.6        -    375.6    41.7        -      41.7
Subtotal Formation              18,639.2  5,126.6  23,765.8  2,071.0   569.6  2,640.6     22       9
E. Assistance technique
Assistance technique locale   12,679.9       - 12,679.9  1,408.9       -  1,408.9        -       5
Assistance technique etrangere  8,727.3  20,898.9  29,626.2   969.7  2,322.1  3,291.8   71      11
Projet                          226.8        -    226.8    25.2        -     25.2        -
Subtotal Assistance technique   21,634.0  20,898.9  42,532.9  2,403.8  2,322.1  4,725.9   49      16
F. Etudes                        7,199.0  10,862.1  18,061.2   799.9  1,206.9  2,006.8    60       7
G. Observatoire                  1,517.9  1,528.5  3,046.4    168.7   169.8   338.5       50       1
Total Investment Costs            82,660.9  83,036.4 165,697.3  9,184.5  9,226.3  18,410.8  50      62
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Personnel                     3,061.1       -  3,061.1    340.1       -    340.1        -       1
B. Formation en Cours crEmplol  17,993.0       - 17,993.0  1,999.2       -  1,999.2        -       7
C. Vehicules                     3,280.8  4,966.1  8,246.9   364.5    551.8    916.3      60       3
D. Fourniture bureautinformatique  1,345.3  2,029.8  3,375.2   149.5   225.5    375.0    60        1
E. Essais                       11,136.2  4,811.7  15,947.9  1,237.4    534.6  1,772.0    30       6
F. Laboratoire                   1,687.4   729.1  2,416.5    187.5    81.0   268.5        30       1
G. Documentation                  761.1  1,783.3  2,544.4    84.6   198.1    282.7        70       1
H. Animation                    36,106.9  4,047.5  40,154.4  4,011.9   449.7  4,461.6     10      15
I. Audio-visuel                   516.1    519.7  1,035.8    57.3    57.7    115.1        50
J. Observatoire                  5,456.8  1,834.2  7,291.0   606.3    203.8   810.1       25       3
Total RecurrentCosts              81,344.8  20,721.4 102,066.1  9,038.3  2,302.4  11,340.7  20      38
Total BASELINE COSTS             164,005.7 103,757.7 267,763.5  18,222.9  11,528.6  29,751.5  39    100
Physical Contingencies           3,695.2  4,958.6  8,653.8    410.6   551.0   961.5       57       3
Price Contingencies             27,038.8  9,290.8  36,329.6  3,004.3  1,032.3  4,036.6   26       14
Total PROJECT COSTS              194,739.6 118,007.2 312,746.8  21,637.7  13,111.9  34,749.6  38    117



MOROCCO
PROJET DE SOUTIEN AU DEVELOPPEMENT AGRICOLE (PSDA)
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Inckuding Contingencies (DH 000)          Totals Including Contingencies (USS 00O)
1994    1996    1996    1997    1998    Total   1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    Total
1. Investnent Costs
A. Batiments                        -  2,404.0  5,049.0  3,243.0  1,561.7 12,257.6    -   267.1   561.0   360.3   173.5  1,362.0
B. Vehicules                    829.5  5,423.9  8,991.2  6,609.9  2,541.1 24,395.5    92.2   602.7   999.0   734.4   282.3  2,710.6
C. Equipement
Equlpementagricole                -  5,509.6 13,519.5 10,147.5   977.9 30,154.4     -   612.2  1,502.2  1,127.5   108.7  3,350.5
Equip. exper. & taboratolre       -  1,042.7  2,461.6   949.3      -  4,453.5            115.9   273.5   105.5       -   494.8
Equlpement audlo-visuel           -  1,925.4  3,061.7  1,423.9     -  6,411.0       -   213.9   340.2   158.2            712.3
Equipement bureau & Info.     206.6  1,907.6  2,786.1  1,018.9   634.2  6,553.5    23.0   212.0   309.6   113.2    70.5   728.2
Equipemerit ekvage                -  2,138.3  4,828.0  1,885.8  1,104.3  9,956.3    -   237.6   536.4   209.5   122.7  1,106.3
Equlpemrent vulgarlsation     390.3   886.3   465.4        -       -  1,741.9    43.4    98.5    51.7       -            193.5
Subtotal Equipenwent            596.9 13,409.9 27,122.3 15,425.3  2,716.3 59,270.7    66.3  1,490.0  3,013.6  1,713.9   301.8  6,585.6
D. Forrnation
Formation locale             4,607.9  7,075.8  4,133.2  2,287.0  1,187.3 19,291.2   512.0   786.2   459.2   254.1   131.9  2,143.5
Formation aretranger          166.7  2,211.3  2,511.9  1,231.9    23.5  6,145.3    18.5   245.7   279.1   136.9    2.6   682.8                       1
Vulgarisatrice                263.5   244.6        -       -       -   508.1    29.3    27.2        -       -        -    56.5
Assistantesvulgarns.              -    93.0   140.3   103.6   109.0   445.9         -    10.3    15.6    11.5    12.1    49.5
Subtotal FormatIon             5,038.1  9,624.7  6,785.4  3,622.4  1,319.8 26,390.5   559.8  1,069.4   753.9   402.5   146.6  2,932.3
E. Assistance technique
Assistance technique locale  1,202.0  3,577.0  3,650.0  3,649.1  2,308.4 14,386.5   133.6   397.4   405.6   405.5   256.5  1,598.5
Assistance technique etragere  4,999.9  8,375.9  8,666.2  6,688.6  3,235.0 31,965.6   555.5   930.7   962.9   743.2   359.4  3,551.7
Projet                            -    65.2   102.3    71.3    18.6   257.5         -     7.2    11.4      7.9     2.1    28.6
Subtotal Assistance technique  6,202.0 12,018.2 12,418.5 10,409.0  5,562.0 46,609.6   689.1  1,335.4  1,379.8  1,156.6   618.0  5,178.8
F. Etudes                      1,128.0  3,264.4  4,586.8  6,622.3  4,590.0 20,191.6   125.3   362.7   509.6   735.8   510.0  2,243.5
G. Observatoire                 627.8  1,626.3   337.9   350.9   364.2  3,307.1    69.8   180.7    37.5    39.0    40.5   367.5
Total investment Costs          14,422.3 47,771.3 65,290.9 46,282.9 18,655.1 192,422.6  1,602.5  5,307.9  7,254.5  5,142.5  2,072.8 21,380.3
I. Recurrent Costs
A. Personnel                     185.0   581.7   881.2   921.2   961.8  3,530.9    20.6    64.6    97.9   102.4   106.9   392.3
B. Fornation en Cour d'EmpI    1,710.5  4,485.8  4,734.9  4,992.6  5,254.8 21,178.6   190.1   498.4   526.1   554.7   583.9  2,353.2
C. Vehkcues                      92.1   686.2  1,908.3  3,383.9  4,418.4 10,488.9    10.2    76.2   212.0   376.0   490.9  1,165.4
D. Foumniture bureaurinfonmatUque  125.3   636.9   927.6  1,029.7  1,065.5  3,785.1    13.9    70.8   103.1   114.4   118.4   420.6
E. Essaks                           -  1,388.9  4,064.9  5,813.2  7,546.7 18,813.7    -   154.3   451.7   645.9   838.5  2,090.4
F. Laboratoire                           289.8    M.5   860.3   898.1  2,825.8        -    32.2    86.4    95.6    99.8   314.0
G. DocumentatIon                 78.2   429.9   748.6   772.4   796.8  2,825.9      8.7    47.8    83.2    85.8    88.5   314.0
H. Animatn                     2,381.9  8,054.7 11,667.2 12,266.2 12,876.0 47,246.0   264.7   895.0  1,296.4  1,362.9  1,430.7  5,249.6             ,
1. Audio-visuel                     -    43.4   228.1   418.1   509.8  1,199.4        -     4.8    25.3    46.5    56.6   133.3                      - Z
J. Observatoire                 756.8  1,578.2  1,652.7  1,729.8  2,712.4  8,429.9    84.1   175.4   183.6   192.2   301.4   936.7                   - r
Total Recurrent Costs            5,329.9 18,175.4 27,591.2 32,187.5 37,040.3 120,324.3   592.2  2,019.5  3,065.7  3,576.4  4,115.6 13,369.4           Ct ><
Total PROJECT COSTS              19,752.2 65,946.7 92,882.1 78,470.4 55,695.4 312,746.8  2,194.7  7,327.4 10,320.2  8,718.9  6,188.4 34,749.6         I. -J



- 87 -
ANNEX 8
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement of Bank Loan
Fiscal                      Amount         Cumulative    Percent
Year                     (US$ Million)       Amount
(US$ Million)
FY94      June 94a/           1.5              1.5            6
FY95      Dec. 94             0.0              1.5            6
June 95             1.8              3.3           13
FY96      Dec. 95             2.0              5.3           21
June 96             2.6              7.9           32
FY97      Dec. 96             3.0             10.9           44
June 97             3.0             13.9           56
FY98      Dec. 97             3.0             16.9           68
June 98             2.8             19.7           79
FY99      Dec. 98             2.0             21.7           87
June 99             1.2             22.9           92
FY00      Dec. 99             1.0             23.9           96
June 00             0.5             24.4           98
FY01      Dec. 00             0.6             25.0           100
_/ Special account deposit
Expected date of:        approval:           December 21, 1993
signing:           January, 15, 1994
effectiveness:    March 31, 1994
completion:        June 30, 1999
closing:           June 30, 2000



- 88 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation Indices
A.    Technoloev Transfer - Adaptive research, support services, agricultural
extension and womens' program.
1. Prolect Monitorina
- improved technology introduced;
- adoption rates for improved technology;
- coherence of training compared with results of diagnostic
surveys;
- training program against plan;
- representivity of farmer categories in touch with services;
- listening rates to radio programs;
- percentage time extension staff spend in farmers'
fields/stables;
- number of women village assistants working effectively;
- number of staff transferred to work with farmers' organizations;
- annual numbers of soil samples requested.
2. Proiect Evaluation
- change in crop yields and cropping intensity;
- change in farm incomes;
- change in labor productivity.
B.    Farmer Oraanizations
1. Prolect Monitoring
- working of task force: composition, work accomplished, level
of participation by farmer members, diffusion of information;
- number of farmers' organizations worked with.
2. Prolect Evaluation
by sector:
- number of OP per sub-sector;
- volume of activity in physical and financial terms;
- number of producers benefitting;
- level of competitiveness.



- 89 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
by farmers' oraanization:
- degree of autonomy as measured by mode of selection and
composition of board of members, amount of capital, degree
of a priori control by authorities;
- technical and financial viability including stability of market
contracts, the size of the OP in relation to minimum size
required to be viable, absence of subsidies, and the
capabilities of its staff;
- the financial rate of return and the stability of the return.
M:\cole\iaadsp\annex9



- 90 -
ANNEX 1 0
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Estimated Annual Commitments
(US$ million equivalent)
Project Element   PYO   PY1  PY2  PY3  PY4  PY5 I PY6   Total   Remarks
Loan Timing
sign/effec/complet.               *   *                                             *
I. INSTITUTIONAL
- reorg'tn 4 ORMVA
o appoint DDA                *
o implement                      xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
- reorg'tn 5 ORMVA
o study
o appoint DDA                                      *
o impLement                                         xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
- skills gap analysis
- training program                   xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
- res/ext. programs                    *   *        *       *      *        *
- monit'ng/eval'tn
o farmer selection                      *
o system set-up=
o .mplementation                             xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
11. CONTRACTUAL
A. ConsuLtancies
- Extension
o recruit consuL'ts
o diagn. studies                     = =              ==     = 
- Farmers Org'tns
o est. task forces                 .....
o recruit consuL'ts
0.6      1.1       0.7    0.4      0.1                   2.9        )Seeking
- Training                         xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx                            )cofin.
0.7      1.3       1.4    1.2      0.6                   5.2        )
- Tech. Assistance                 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
0.2     0.5        0.5    0.8      0.6                   2.6        Includes
- Studies                          xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx                            W/e
B. Construction
0.2       0.6    0.4       0.2                  1.4        LCB
- buildings                                xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
C. Goods
0.1     0.6        1.0    0.7      0.3                   2.7        ICB
- vehicles                             xx      xx       xx      xx      xx
0.6       1.5    1.1       0.2                  3.4        ICB/LCB
- agric. equipment                             xx       xx      xx      xx
0.1      0.8       1.5    0.6      0.1                   3.1        ICB
- other equipment                              xx       xx      xx      xx
D. Operating Costs                   0.6      2.0       3.1    3.6    4.1                     13.4
Totals                               2.3      7.1     10.3    8.8       6.2                   34.7



- 91 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                 ANNEX 11
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Supervision Input into Key Activities
Approx.             Activity               Expected Skill            Staff
Dates                                      Requirements              Input
(SW)
FY94                Supervision mission   -Management                 10
3/1994              Project start-up       -Extension
1994 Work Program      -Procurement
Procurement            -Farmer Org.
Training Program       -WID
Diagnostic surveys
FY95                Supervision mission    -Management                 10
10/1994             Research Program       -Research
Extension Program      -Extension
Farmer Organization    -Farmer Org.
FY95                Supervision mission    -Extension                  8
3/1995              Research Program       -Research
Extension Program      -Monitoring
M/E
FY96                Supervision mission   -Extension                   8
10/1995             Extension/Research     -Research
Farmer Organization    -Farmer Org.
FY96                Mid-Term review        -Organization              14
3/1996                                     -Extension & WID
-Research
-Farmer Organization
FY97                Supervision mission   -Management                  8
10/1996             Farmer Organization    -Farmer Org.
FY97                Supervision mission   -Extension                   8
3/1997              Extension/Research     -Research
FY98                Supervision mission   -Extension                   8
10/1997             Extension/WID          -WID
Farmer Organization    -Farmer Org.
FY99                Supervision mission    -Management                 8
10/1998             Extension/Research     -Extension
-Research
FY00                Supervision mission    -Management                 8
10/1999             Preparation of PCR
R: Ncotem aaospmannex I



- 92 -
ANNEX 12
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents in Proiect File
1.    "R6vision des Assolements dans les Grands Perimetres Irrigues"; Document
de Travail, Programme Cooperation FAO/BM; No. 138/89CP, 13 octobre, 1989.
2.    "Projet de Soutien au Developpement Agricole (PSDA) dans les ORMVA";
Mission de Pr6paration, Rapport 104/92 CP-MOR 74; 10 aoi2t 1992.
3.    Etude sur la synthAse de la revision des assolements (PAGI) et
l14tablissement des programmes pour le suivi et l'orientation du developpement
agricole dans les perimetres des grandes irrigations. Rapport phase II -
Expert system - janvier 1993.
4.    Working Papers:
- Annexe 1 Production Agricole, Recherche Adaptative et Actions D'Appui.
- Annexe 2 Vulgarisation Agricole.
- Annexe 3 Animation Feminine.
- Annexe 4 Composante Organisations Professionnelles.
- Annexe 5 Costab.
M:\coLe\i aedsp\annex12



C-_AR:
OCRCC C
IRRIGATED AREAS ACR21L'URAL SERV:CE3 PRCJE;
Organiza-ion of :te Agricutt.ral Sec:or
M M:STRE
Inspection Generale                                     .
|  CCOSEIL GENERAL OU
DEVELOPPEMENT AGRICCLE
Cabinet 
SECRETARIAT GENERAL
DIRECTION DES ENTREPRISES            DIRECTIC OES AFFAIRES
PUBLICUES AGRICOLES ET DES            ACMNISTRATIVES ET
ASSOCIATIONS PROFESSIONNELLES                JURIOICUES
ACMINISTRATION
DU  GENIE RURAL                                        DIRECTION                   DIRECTION DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT
DE LA PLANIFICATION ET              OE LA RECHERCHE ET DU
DES AFFAIRES ECONOMICUES                  CEVELOPPEOEmT
DIRECTION DE LA PROTECTION          DIRECTION DE LA CONSERVATICN
DIRECTION DU DEVELOPPENENT                 DES VEGETALX, DES CONTROLES          FONCIERE, CU CADASTRE ET CE
ET DE LA GESTION                          TECNIOQUES ET DE LA                     LA CARTOGRAPNIE
DE L'IRRIGATION                          REPRESSION DES FRALDES
DIRECTION DES EAUX ET FORETS
DIRECTION  DES                             DIRECTION DE LA                           ET DE LA
AIEMAGEJENTS                            PRCOUCTION VEGETALE                  CONSERVATION DES SOLS
HYDRO-AGRICOLES
I IDIRECTION DE                               DIVISION DE
DIRECTION  DES                      I           L'ELVAGE                         LA COOPERATION
AIEUAGENETS
FONCImn
DIRECTION DES
RESSCLCES H WAI*ES
DIRECTIONS PKCVINCIALIS 
|    DE LIAGtICULTlUtE                     |CfOFFICES REGIOKAUX DE MISSE EN VALEUP AGRICOLE
Dokk*at  - Gharb   Naouz - Loukkoe -       ouluy |
ENTREPRISES PtULIOUES                           Ouarzazate - Souss/Mss  - TadLa - Taftlsat |
SOUS TUTELLE
c:\pog 2\buaff\ \ar&Z.



IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT a!                                     CHART 2
Organization of ORMVA Agricultural Services
IFIECTEUR GEINERAL|
| DE L'OFFICE 
Service de I'audit        |Departement |         Departement   |        Departement   |          Deparneme nt du |      |Departement|
_et Controle de             Planification         Amenagement               Gestion               Developpement          des Ressources
Gestion                 & Finances                                   des Reseaux                 Agr cole              Humaines
Service         S| desInformaServ                                       Serv. pdu                                   sur. aulministratin
_     dMoyens dMaintenance ( S                                                                                              es marcsts
Generaux                   Serv. Compt./Fin. |
|Se rv. Planifi ca . |
|r Bur. Suivi/Evald. d  ct oa                 techn. d'irri-                              B
| gation et drainage                               c
Serv. des  tudes                    Serv. production                Serv. production                           Bur. vrmoarisolion
du developpement                      vegetale (SPV)                | animale (SPA)                              Strorganisations
agricole (SEDA)s                                                                                                     vu l__   profesi1esVOP
Bur. des etudes   l           Bur. des cultures olea- |                ur. amelioration                          Bur vugaiato
lagro-economiques                gnueetexils.|                           genetlique                             l agricol
Bur. de la                    |Bur. des cultures                   rBur. alimentation   |Bur. promotion des
|rechercheaplqe                   cerealiers, legumi-  |                 animale                                 coop6ratives et
l   l   | neuses 10urrageres  1         l                   l                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~professionelles
Bur. de phytiatrie  I         | Bur. de l'horticulture
<   Bur. des cultures                                                  __FBur. radio-communication
sucrieres                                                              et information agricole 
|ArrondiAse                                             rrondissement B                                      ArrdissementC
Chef de l'arrondissement
du Developpement agricole
- Ser. administratif                - SEMVA
- Bur. d'appui technique at         - Bur. de suivi du
de l'information agricole           Developpement agricole
- Bur. des structures toncieres
et de la rdforme agraire
Centre Devlt                   Centre Devi't                 Centre Devlt
Agricole                       Agricole                      Agricole 
|(CDA) Chef( (CDA) Chef                                              he
Zone Conseilleur Agricole
EXPLOITATIONS                                             M
a/ Ooukkala.                                                                                                      M:\HOU/\COLE.WK1



IBRD 2A899
F.  IS,. W
- of- IS, I, ~
-A -,  r.  WAkO,* - A.                                                                                                                 I                      - -
pw _f Th W.dd    r-                                             |CM                                                                              L
>   Thed   ud      '                                                      /     UATQ                  _               ?OORMV
F*JWdd p OCEANCEvA4 MOLOY
OOUK"ALAS                      -LOUKKO                                                                                                T 0,o
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SL _ET ESLLT                                         ,
AsAcs;,,  -   z     LoS   t  OUARZAE                     0   ep ~~TAOU.
ORMVA-5/    -   ()           <t                      MOROCCO
C E Ao N                  AALAAIRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL
tlZ~~~Nn -    v                  /-' t  ~~~~~SERVICES PROJECT
15J  /                   O                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-,  RUILROADS
/                 ft                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EGIONAL OFllCE FO/ AGRICITULtUAL DESVELtOPMENETUIGtOE   PAOR TS
~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                 <               b/EITTING IRIEGATED AREAS                          0   PROVINCE CAPItALS
I            -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
DOUKKALAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ATOA CPTL
t;<                       j                          tS~~~~~~~~~~~C  DAMS TO RE tONSTIUtCTED                  _. _ INTERNATIONAL bOUNDARIEtS
Tc t_f                                              '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ RIERISTDAS_                              INTERNATIONAL bOUNDARIES (APPROSIMATEI
E? -r                     MEAN ANNUAL RAINFALL IN ASLLIMETERS          4'-
MAT IW3



