                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 23264

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                (CPL-36880; SCL-3688A; SCPM-3688S)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 25 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                       KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                                                FOR THE

                     IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT




                                                11/21/2001




Natural Resources, Rural Development and Environment Department
Middle East and North Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective Appraisal report date; November 1993)

                            Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham DH
                                DH 1.00 = US$ 0.111
                                US$ 1.00 = DH 9.00

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1st   December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CMV/CDA     Agricultural Development Center
DERD       Directorate of Education, Research and Development (Direction de l'Enseignement,
           de la Recherche et du Développement)
DPAE       Directorate of Programming and Economic Affairs (Direction de la Programmation
           et des Affaires Economiques)
DPVCTRF    Directorate of Crops Protection (Direction de la Protection des Végétaux, du
           Contrôle Technique et de la Répression des Fraudes)
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization
IAASP      Irrigated Areas Agricultural Services Project (in french PSDA=Projet de Soutien
           au Développement Agricole)
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
INRA       National Institute for Agricultural Research (Institut National de Recherche
           Agronomique)
IPM         Integrated Pest Management
LSII1/2     First/Second Large Scale Irrigation Improvement Project
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MADREF     Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development, Water and Forestry (Ministère de
           l'Agriculture, du Développement Rural et des Eaux et Forêts)
N/A         Not Applicable
OP          Farmers' Organizations (Organisations Professionnelles)
ORMVA      Regional Authority for Agricultural Development (Office Regional de Mise en
           Valeur Agricole)
OTE        Technical and Economical Observatory (Observatoire Technico-Economique)
QAG         Quality Assurance Group
R&D         Research and Development
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SEMVA      Agricultural Adaptive Research Station (Station Expérimentale de Mise en Valeur
           Agricole)

                         Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib
             Country Manager/Director:        Christian Delvoie
               Sector Manager/Director:       Petros Aklilu
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Hassan Lamrani

                                          MOROCCO
             IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            29
Annex 8. Borrower Project Assessment                                             30

 Project ID: P005499                                                     Project Name: IRR. AREAS AGR. SERV
 Team Leader: Hassan Lamrani                                             TL Unit: MNSRE
 ICR Type: Core ICR                                                      Report Date: December 21, 2001


1. Project Data

                   Name: IRR. AREAS AGR. SERV                                          L/C/TF Number: CPL-36880;
                                                                                                       SCL-3688A;
                                                                                                       SCPM-3688S
    Country/Department: MOROCCO                                                               Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                       Africa Region
         Sector/subsector: AE - Agricultural Extension

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
          PCD:   06/20/1991                                        Effective:                         05/04/1995
    Appraisal:   01/22/1993                                            MTR: 12/31/1996                11/27/1997
    Approval:    12/21/1993                                         Closing: 06/30/2000               06/30/2001

     Borrower/Implementing Agency:         Government of Morocco/Ministry of Agriculture
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Jean-Louis Sarbib                                   Caio Koch-Weser
Country Manager:           Christian Delvoie                                   Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:            Petros Aklilu                                       Odin K. Knudsen
Team Leader at ICR:        Hassan Lamrani                                      John Cole
ICR Primary Author:        Franz Schorosch

2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:UN

 Institutional Development Impact:M

                Bank Performance:S

            Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                 S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



In the text, the ratings of the achievement of the different project objectives and components are
variable, but mostly "marginally satisfactory". Bank and Borrower performance as well as Quality at
Entry (by QAG and ICR) are also rated as "marginally satisfactory". Thus, S on the form above should be
interpreted as 'marginally satisfactory'.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:


The major objectives of the Irrigated Areas Agricultural Services Project (IAASP) were to: (a) raise
agricultural production and farmers' income in the irrigated areas with special efforts to reach women, who
are mainly responsible for livestock management; (b) improve the organization and operating efficiency of
the agricultural services within the Regional Authorities for Agricultural Development (ORMVA); (c)
promote commodity and service oriented farmer organizations to take an increasing share of development
responsibilities and; (d) involve the university teaching and research staff in field extension and research.

These objectives provided a sound vision for the ORMVAs. However, the first objective, i.e. to raise
agricultural production and farmers' income was too general. Raising agricultural production is the overall
mission of the ORMVAs and was supported by several other activities not financed by the project, thereby
making it next to impossible to determine the respective impacts. Other than that, these objectives fitted
well within the Government's agricultural strategy to create a more productive and flexible agricultural
sector that can respond to the opening of the Moroccan economy and trade opportunities with the European
Community and other potential markets. They also supported the World Bank's country assistance
strategy, which stressed the need to improve public sector management, foster private sector development,
enhance environmental and water resources management, alleviate poverty and increase the outward
orientation of the economy. These objectives are as valid and relevant today as they were when the project
was designed.

Background: The IAASP was a companion project to, and was implemented in parallel with the Second
Large Scale Irrigation Improvement Project (LSII2) which was implemented by the same nine ORMVAs.
The LSII2 project covered network rehabilitation, efficiency and sustainability of the public utility function
of the ORMVAs, on-farm water management techniques and environmental protection. IAASP and LSII2
were a follow-up projects to the First Large Scale Irrigation Improvement Project (LSII1-loan
2656-Mor-1987/1993) that had as objectives to improve the water service as well as the agricultural
development services in the irrigated areas. The IAASP followed another Bank-financed project: the
Agricultural Research and Extension Project (loan 3036-Mor) which was implemented in 1990-1996 and
had as main objective to establish efficient national research and extension institutions.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The project objectives were not formally revised at mid-term review, only a budget adjustement exercise
was carried out by each of the ORMVAs. However, as a result of the drastic reduction in the scope of some
components (see para. 3.3) and the delays in the hiring of technical assistance, certain objectives became
somewhat inconsistent with project activities. This was the case in particular with the objective of
promoting the emergence of efficient, viable and autonomous farmer organizations (see para. 4.2.3) and
support to women groups.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1 Presentation of the components: the project consisted of the following five components:

    a) Component 1: Transfer of technology (US$24.9million - 72% of total cost):
    to and from farmers in the large scale irrigation areas of the ORMVA including the strengthening of
    adaptive research, agricultural extension, women' programs, with provision for staff training,
    infrastructure, vehicles and equipment, contracting out extension and research, technical assistance,
    and incremental operating costs;



                                                      - 2 -

    b) Component 2: Supporting services (US$1.9million ­ 5% of total costs):
    including soils and plant analysis, pest and disease warning systems and testing/demonstration of small
    equipment, with provision for infrastructure, vehicles and equipment and incremental operating costs;

     c) Component 3: Promotion of farmer organizations (US$5.6million ­ 16% of total costs):
     with provision for technical assistance, training and some initial investments;

     d) Component 4: Monitoring and evaluation of agricultural development (US$1.4million ­ 4% of total
costs):
     with provision for vehicles and equipment and incremental operating costs; and

     e) Component 5: Studies (US$0.7million ­ 2% of total costs):
     Studies for specific components (farm mechanization and farmer associations) and for product
    marketing.

3.3.2 Assessment of component design


a) Component 1 ­ Transfer of technology

This component, by far the largest one, had four sub-components: adaptive research, extension, support to
women farmers and training of staff and farmers.

The adaptive research sub-component was well designed. However, its most innovative aspect, namely the
contracting out of some research to universities, other institutions and private sector agencies should have
been discussed more extensively and regularly with key stakeholders, especially the Ministry of Finance to
define in advance the procurement procedures for obtaining these services. In addition, farmer
organizations at the regional level should have been associated not only in the planning and management of
adaptive research trials but also in their funding.

The extension sub-component centered around: (i) improved participatory diagnosis, planning and
implementation; (ii) distribution of extension tasks between the private and public sectors; (iii) support to
ORMVAs to meet the needs of different types of farmers: mass media approach, group approach, farm
management advice; (iv) relocating technical staff (engineers) at the sub-division level; (v) pilot activities
with Chambers of Agriculture; (vi) more use of regional radio; and (vii) improved monitring of the
execution and impact of the extension services. As such, this component was well conceived,
comprehensive and at the cutting edge of good extension. However, inadequate attention was given to how
to introduce these innovations into the operations of the ORMVAs. There was too much reliance on
technical assistance for the introduction of a participatory extension approach and not enough on
developing internal support for this concept. Also, there was no explicit understanding and roadmap on
how to shift more extension tasks from the public to the private sector, and the time frame for achieving
this goal was unrealistic.

The women's programs sub-component lacked a clear and well defined national strategy which should have
been developed as part of project preparation. Also, too much emphasis was given to recruiting and
working with women extension agents and assistants and not enough to developing a strategy to
mainstream gender aspects in the daily work of the ORMVAs. Finally, given its sensitive nature, project
actions under this sub-component should have been designed specifically for each ORMVA, and
consideration should have been given to only intervene in selected ORMVAs that were ready and
committed to this aspect.



                                                     - 3 -

The training component was well designed, comprehensive and based on skills gap analysis.


b) Component 2 ­ Supporting services

The technical aspects of this component (soils and plant analysis, agro-meteorology and pest management)
were well designed. However, the farmers' potential demand of these services was overestimated.


c) Component 3 ­ Promotion of farmer organizations (OPs)

This component sought to promote the emergence of efficient, viable and autonomous farmer organizations
"Organisations Professionnelles (OP)" through: (i) changes in the legal and regulatory framework
(application of the 1984 cooperative charter, preparation of a specific statute for OPs and giving OPs the
possibility to be represented in the Chambers of Agriculture); and (ii) a pilot technical
assistance/investment component. The objectives were a) to promote a small number of OPs that could
serve as an example, and b) to train a number of farmer members elected to the OP boards to become
managers. In addition, through the use of dated legal covenants, this component sought to arrive at
appropriate funding of the Chambers of Agriculture and the disengagement of ORMVAs from the
management of the Land Reform Cooperatives.

This component was clearly `under-designed', overly ambitious and with unrealistic target dates, and
therefore not ready for successful implementation. The major constraint for strengthening OPs, namely the
human resources of the ORMVAs, was not adequately analyzed. ORMVA staff working with OPs have
agricultural backgrounds (crop and livestock production) but were not trained nor had experience in
institutional development of OPs as private enterprises. Also, the institutional set-up for executing this
component was problematic. The ORMVAs as public sector entities should not have been chosen as
executing agencies. Rather a private sector independent specialized agency and/or consulting firm should
have been selected for the execution of this component. In addition, as formulated in the SAR, there was
excessive reliance on foreign technical assistance, which was made a precondition for start-up of
investment support to selected OPs. Finally, too much reliance was placed on regional task forces. These
task forces were supposed to be composed of representatives of the profession, the ORMVAs and private
sector agro-industries and assisted by consultants. In the end, with the delay in the recruitment of technical
assistance and no guidance from the national level, these task forces only met sporadically and never played
the role that had been expected of them.


d) Component 4 ­ Monitoring and evaluation

Monitoring and evaluation were not developed in the SAR. No guidelines were given on how to deal with
this crucial aspect, and aside from a list of possible monitoring and evaluation indicators, the institutional
set-up for this system and its operating procedures were left to be developed during project implementation.
No baseline survey nor a beneficiary assessment were foreseen.


e) Component 5 - Studies

Except for mentioning the studies, this component was not developed.

3.4 Revised Components:




                                                     - 4 -

As a result of the Government's severe budget cuts, project total financing dropped from DH313 million to
DH207 million, i.e. a reduction of 34%. More specifically, the amounts for project activities were cut down
by 24% for extension, by 62% for the women program, by 60% for promotion of farmer organizations and
by 31% for adaptive research and supporting services.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The Banks "Quality Assurance Group" conducted a review of the IAASP and issued its report in August
1998. It rated the project as "marginally satisfactory in both quality at entry and quality of supervision, but
with clear improvement of supervision."
In view of the assessment of the various components above, quality at entry is rated as marginally
satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1 Raising agricultural production and farmers' incomes in the irrigated areas with special efforts to
reach women who are mainly responsible for livestock management.

The extent to which the objective of increasing agricultural production has been achieved as a consequence
of the project cannot be quantified in a meaningful way, since there are no hard, reliable aggregate data
available for such an analysis. No control groups or control areas were set up at the beginning of the
project that would allow to distinguish increases in agricultural production of farmers reached by the
project's extension services and those not receiving extension advice. However, there can be no doubt that
the project largely surpassed the economic test established in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), para. 5.02.
There it was pointed out that the increase in growth of total value added in the area under the ORMVA
jurisdiction needed to offset the cost increase arising from the incremental investment and operating costs of
the IAASP is only 0.1 percent.

During 2000, a consulting firm was hired to try to establish baseline data and to analyze the initial impact
of the project. The report was issued in December 2000: "Etablissement d'une Situation de Reference et
Analyse des Premiers Impacts du PSDA." The report points out that it is difficult to assess the project's
impact for the following reasons: a) certain benefits, especially from research, will only materialize in the
future; b) benefits such as institutional strengthening cannot be quantified; c) project impact is the
combined effect of many different actors and factors; and d) climatic conditions, especially rainfall, play a
decisive role in agricultural output. Nevertheless, from the data collected for this study (see Annex 1), it is
apparent that the value of agricultural production (crops and livestock) in the areas of the ORMVAs
expressed in constant 1998 prices increased from DH10,017 million to DH11,547 million between 1994
and 1999. This is a 15% increase, i.e. close to 3% per year. Also, average cropping intensity increased
from 107% (average from 1990-94) to 113% (average from 1995-99) and the yields of certain crops
increased significantly e.g: 20% to 50% for sugar beet in Gharb, Tadla and Moulouya, 26% for sugar cane
in Loukkos and 32% for maïze in Doukkala. Finally, the data show that cropping patterns are evolving,
with cereals and industrial crops declining in importance, while higher value crops such as horticulture, tree
crops and fodder crops are gaining in importance.

The extent to which the objective of raising farmers' incomes as a consequence of the project has been
achieved can also not be quantified, since direct survey data on farmers' incomes to quantify this impact
were not available for the ICR. While each ORMVA is trying to collect such data from a small sample of
farmers as part of their effort to improve their economic understanding of the situation, so far the systems
of M&E put in place are not functioning (see par.4.2.4). Nevertheless, based on the increase in agricultural



                                                      - 5 -

production, higher cropping intensity, shifts in cropping patterns, and especially the adoption of more
profitable technologies, it can be assumed that the project contributed to the objective of raising farmers'
incomes.

The objective of providing women with timely and relevant advice, especially for livestock production, was
achieved to a limited extent. Since extension advice for women farmers was not mainstreamed, it was only
provided by female extension agents who by necessity could only reach a limited number of women.
Nevertheless, the fact that women were explicitly involved and benefited from ORMVAs' activities can be
considered a success, since it has laid the basis for dealing with gender issues in subsequent agricultural
projects funded by other donors.

4.1.2. Improving the organization and operating efficiency of the ORMVAs' agricultural services.

The reorganization of the agricultural services of ORMVAs sought inter alia to: (a) coordinate the three
existing services (crop production, livestock and extension) under one director; (b) merge the development
centers (CMV) and livestock posts into one agricultural development center (CDA) with increased focus on
agricultural extension; (c) transfer staff (extension agents and technical specialists) from headquarters to
the field; and (d) reduce the administrative tasks of extension staff. These organizational improvements
were partially achieved. Only the objectives (a) and (b) above were achieved in four ORMVAs (Gharb,
Doukkala, Tadla and Loukkos) which were reorganized under the LSII1 project.

Concerning the operating efficiency of the agricultural services, there is no doubt that the IAASP brought
about significant improvements, primarily through its massive staff training program, more clearly defined
work objectives and procedures, closer linkages with research and farmers, and the additional means that
were made available to field staff. Consequently, compared to the without project situation, the number of
farmers that is receiving relevant and timely extension advice has increased (see para. 4.2.1.c). However,
on balance, the assessment is that the IAASP had only a modest impact on achieving the qualitative
objectives set out in the SAR. The ORMVAs, while introducing some modifications to the way they
provide agricultural services, did not fundamentally change the way they operate and rather concentrated
on increasing the quantitative output of their activities.

Consequently, the objective of improving the organization and operating efficiency of the agricultural
services of the ORMVAs was partially achieved.

4.1.3. Promoting commodity and service oriented farmer organizations to take on an increasing share of
development responsibilities.

The objective to promote the emergence of efficient, viable and autonomous farmer organizations (OPs)
through: (i) changes to the legal and regulatory framework; and (ii) a pilot technical assistance/investment
component was not achieved as planned at appraisal. No specific statute for farmer associations that
would enable them to develop a financial base has been developed and adopted, and the legal texts
governing Chambers of Agriculture and their relationship to OPs has not changed either. Overall, the
Chambers of Agriculture still are under funded and weak and unable to take on provision of agricultural
services to their members. Also, contrary to the SAR, the ORMVAs still have not disengaged from the
management of most of the Land Reform Cooperatives and continue to fund their directors from their own
budget. Nobody within the project at the national level provided the necessary leadership to improve the
regulatory and legal framework for the development of farmer-owned organizations, and the1999 study on
OPs did not provide specific enough recommendations and therefore was not acted upon.

Nevertheless, the number of OPs in irrigated areas has increased significantly (1,178 in 1995 to 2,165 in
2000, see annex 1) and some of them, especially livestock associations, take an increasing share of
development activities (e.g. artificial insemination). Also, in some ORMVAs (Gharb and Souss-Massa), a
regional committee was set up and OPs were involved in the planning and implementation of the project


                                                      - 6 -

activities. Finally, thanks to the project, managers and staff in ORMVAs are now convinced that working
with OPs is the best way to improve the efficiency of agricultural services.

4.1.4. Involving the university teaching/research staff in field extension and research.

This objective was achieved through the contractual research and the training activities.

4.1.5. Conclusions on evaluation of project objective achievement:

In summary:
· The objective of raising agricultural production and farmers' incomes in the irrigated areas has been
achieved, although it is difficult to attribute the increase to the project. The objective to reach more women
has been achieved to a limited extent.
· The objective of improving the organization and operating efficiency of the ORMVAs' agricultural
services has been partially achieved.
· The objective of promoting commodity and service oriented farmer organizations to take an increasing
share of development responsibilities was only achieved to a limited extent.
· The objective of involving the university teaching/research staff in field extension and research has been
achieved.

In conclusion, the achievement of project objectives is considered as marginally satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Project identification started in 1991 and appraisal took place in February of 1993. The project went to the
Board in December 1993, but became only effective after 16 months in May 1995. From the beginning,
and until after the mid-term review, the project suffered from repeated budget cuts, delays in the release of
approved budget funds, delays in the recruitment of technical assistance, and slow disbursements. For
almost two years (November 1997 ­ July 1999) it was classified as a problem project. However, during the
last two years (including the one year extension of the closing date) project execution accelerated
significantly and project progress improved considerably.

Ideally, the assessment of the outputs per component should be presented for each ORMVA separately, as
the achievements differ considerably from one ORMVA to the next. However, this would be too long and
too detailed in the context of an ICR (5 components and 4 sub-components for 9 ORMVAs). The ratings
presented below correspond to an overall summary evaluation.

4.2.1 Component 1: Transfer of technology : output of this component is rated as marginally
satisfactory.

Adaptive Research : output of this sub-component is rated as satisfactory.




                                                       - 7 -

The infrastructure and field equipment of the ORMVAs' existing research stations "Stations
d'Experimentation et de Mise en Valeur Agricole (SEMVA)" was improved as planned. All ORMVAs
carried out adaptive research activities as planned under the project by either conducting their own R/D
activities in their own research stations or by contracting out with universities and the National Agricultural
Research Institute (INRA). The launching of contractual research, after a two years delay in getting
started, was carried out by all ORMVAs except Moulouya and Souss-Massa. Research topics covered a
wide array of subjects and commodities, including new irrigation techniques (i.e drip irrigation), pest and
disease management practices, optimal fertilizer applications, the introduction and testing of new varieties,
nutrition needs of various kinds of animals, and animal husbandry practices.

An evaluation of the adaptive research activities of the ORMVAs was carried out by local consultants
during 2000: "Evaluation de la Recherche Adaptative dans les ORMVA," FAO Projet UTF/014/MOR, M.
Agbani, A Harzeni, and A. Laamamri, 2001. In their report, the consultants come to the conclusion that the
research topics had been well chosen and defined, that research was conducted and completed successfully
and that research results had been restituted to farmers and technical staff of the ORMVAs. The report
shows that there is a considerable gap between farmers' practice, the yields they obtain and the expenses
they incur, and what can be achieved by applying improved technology. Areas/examples of profitable
technologies are: a) wheat ­ optimal plant density, timely chemical treatment against weeds, and
appropriate fertilizer application can increase yields from 52 t/ha to 60 t/ha, while reducing the costs of
production; b) sugar beet ­ optimal irrigation application (timing and quantity) can reduce water
consumption and increase yields and sugar content. This can increase the net margin per ha by 10,000 DH;
c) olive oil ­ the modernization of the traditional oil extraction facilities (maasras) can increase oil
extraction from 12-15% to 22%; and d) citrus ­ introduction of integrated pest management can reduce the
number of chemical sprayings and reduces the costs of production by 1,200DH/ha. On the livestock side,
breeding improvements through artificial insemination and improvement in animal nutrition have opened
the way for significant increases in milk yields.

The contracting out of adaptive research activities to universities and INRA was successful. It forced the
ORMVAs to define their R&D needs and to define clear terms of reference for specific topics. It allowed
their staff to understand the research and development (R&D) process better and to collaborate with senior
researchers/scientists and thereby gain hands-on experience. The participating researchers had the
opportunity to interact directly with farmers and their problems. Interactions between farmers, extension
agents and researchers have become much more frequent than in the past. This has solidified the
agricultural knowledge system in each region.

Extension: output of this sub-component is rated as marginally satisfactory.

a) All ORMVAs were supposed to carry out participatory diagnosis to define extension recommendations
better for different categories of farmers. These diagnosis were to be done in two phases: an area inventory
to be prepared by each extension agent, and a participatory diagnostic to be carried out by multidisciplinary
teams of public and private extension and research specialists. With the exception of the ORMVA of Souss
Massa, these participatory diagnosis were not carried out, and extension recommendations were largely
developed annually by technical specialists in the field according to the "Agricultural Development
Strategy" drawn up in 1996 by each ORMVA. Only in 1998 was a general study carried out concerning
participatory extension methods, the objective of which was primarily to familiarize extension agents with
these techniques, rather than to define the demand for extension. Consequently, although extension
programs were not defined on the basis of specific participatory diagnosis as planned at appraisal, there
was an improvement in the extension approach since annual programs are established by staff in the field
while it was done at the headquarter level before the project.

b) Improvements in the planning and implementation of extension services were to be brought about


                                                      - 8 -

through clearer definition of needs and priorities, better formulation and quantification of objectives, clear
task descriptions and staff training, performance-linked incentives, greater decentralization and more use of
group and mass communication. Efforts in this direction were made, especially concerning staff training.
However, given their public sector nature, the ORMVAs have not introduced performance based incentives
for staff. Also, staff still spend too much of their time on administrative tasks and their mobility is
inadequate.

c) Different extension approaches (mass media, groups, individual) to meet the needs of the different types
of farmer clients are being used. Farm management advice, however, is still in its infancy. Monitoring data
of the ORMVAs (see Annex 1) show that the number of farmers reached in 2000 was a) 45,000 through
the group approach (farmers in contact groups), b) 110,000 individually and c) 5,500 through on-farm
demonstrations. These numbers are nearly twice as high as they were in 1995. While these data have to be
treated with circumspection because they most likely involve double counting and the categories probably
do not have the same meaning from ORMVA to ORMVA, they nevertheless show that extension activities
are intensive and that about 160,000 farmers (33 percent of all farmers) in the areas covered by the
ORMVAs have been in direct contact with extension agents and have benefited from advice. Since no
comprehensive adoption and diffusion study is available, the extent to which specific recommended
technologies have been adopted is unknown.

d) Little progress was made in relocating technical staff (engineers) at the sub-division level and the
mobilization of multidisciplinary support to the field extension agents is still problematic. Also, the use of
farm management advisors to work with selected farmers is very limited.

e) Collaboration with Chambers of Agriculture and the use of regional radio did not develop as planned at
appraisal. The Chambers remained ineffective and rural radio is only used sporadically.

f) Each ORMVA has a monitoring unit that collects data on the execution and impact of the extension
service. However, it would seem that the data concerning extension outputs (Number of farmers contacted,
etc.), are not analyzed in any depth, and impact data (figures on adoption, impact on incomes) are not
collected systematically. Hence, there is still a need for considerable progress in this area. Since no
comprehensive adoption and diffusion study is available, the extent to which specific recommended
technologies have been adopted is sketchy.

These shortcomings in the achievement of the objectives and outputs of the extension component are partly
due to the significant reduction of the resources (staff, vehicles, operating budget) allocated to this
component compared to appraisal estimates. The number of people assigned to extension, about 150
extension managers and technical specialists and 700 field extension agents, has varied little over the life of
the project. There was even a tendency for a reduction in the number of field extension agents as they are
not being replaced when they retire, and many more field extension agents are getting close to the age of
retirement. Mobility of extension staff remained a limiting factor. Due to cost saving measures by the
Ministry of Finance, the initial budget allocated for purchasing vehicles (DH24.4 million) witnessed an
important cut as it dropped to DH8.5 million.

Program for women: output of this sub-component is rated as marginally satisfactory.

The program for women was executed by a very limited number of staff, altogether some six senior staff
and 40 assistants, i.e. between two and fifteen staff members per ORMVA. This is less than the 56 women
program staff that was foreseen at appraisal. The project trained women farmers in such topics as animal
production and human hygiene, and allowed women to travel outside their villages to interact and learn
from other women groups. Some 20,000 women farmers benefited from these training courses and study
tours (see Annex1). The women program staff also organized women farmers' groups (organisations
professionnelles) around different economic activities (bee keeping, raising of small ruminants) and



                                                     - 9 -

training them accordingly. Some 48 small investment projects for women organizations with 1,400
members were financed. Finally, a diagnostic was carried out in few sites in parallel with the extension
study to deepen the understanding of women's needs. However, the implementation of this sub-component
was limited by a lack of a clear vision of specific objectives, of relevant activities and of suitable
approaches aiming at improving the women situation in the rural areas .

Training Program: output of this sub-component is rated as satisfactory.

Around 4,500 staff-weeks of training were provided for the staff of ORMVAs, mainly by teachers from the
agricultural universities. The training component was successful in reaching its objective of increasing the
technical competence of staff and supporting field staff in making the shift from purveyors of inputs to
providers of appropriate advice on agriculture.

4.2.2 Component 2: Supporting services: output of this component is rated as marginally satisfactory.

a) Soil and plant analysis. In all      the ORMVAs where it was planned, the soil and plant analysis
laboratories have been equipped and are running. User charges have been introduced, although belatedly.
In the ORMVAs of Loukkos, Moulouya, Souss-Massa, Tadla and Doukkala, during 2000, about 20,000
soil samples were analyzed compared to 6,700 in 1995 (see Annex1). Also, in the case of Doukkala,
standard national fertlizer formulas are being replaced by region specific ones that were established on the
basis of analysis of the different kinds of soils existing in this area. These specific formulas are being
proposed to small farmers that most likely would not carry out soil analysis on their fields. Despite these
achievements, demand by farmers for these services is still very weak and the extension service needs to do
a better job of explaining their importance. Also, consideration should be given to transferring these
laboratories to the private sector, possibly OPs.

b) Agro-meteorology. In all the ORMVAs where it was planned, the agro-meteorological stations have been
equipped and are running, but the data provided are still underused in the most of the ORMVAs. In the
ORMVAs of Souss-Massa and Doukkala, agro-meteorological data are used for effective irrigation
scheduling, and also as an input into prediction of pest and disease attacks and greenhouse management. In
the case of Souss-Massa, agro-meteorological data are put on phone banks and can be automatically dialed
by farmers.

c) Pest Management. Several ORMVAs have established a convention with the department of the Ministry
of Agriculture responsible for crop protection (DPVCTRF) to reinforce the warning network for pest
infection and to assist with introducing integrated pest management (IPM) practices. Pest scouting is being
used and whenever a defined threshold is surpassed, bulletins are used to inform farmers about what action
to take. However, due to a lack of vehicles for DPVCTRF (foreseen to be provided by the project), not all
of the inspection zones concerned are covered.

4.2.3 Component 3: Promotion of farmers' organizations (OPs): output of this component is rated as
marginally satisfactory.

The technical assistance that was supposed to provide the underpinning for project investments was delayed
until 1999. In the end, the report it produced: "PSDA, Composante Organisations Professionnelles, Nov.
1999, Messrs. Agbani, El Alaoui, Laforge, Sbai", although it made a thorough and relevant diagnosis, was
not actionable and had little direct impact on what the ORMVAs were doing. Efforts by the Bank during
the mid-term review to restructure the component and get it started failed, as the key recommendation, i.e.,
the recruitment of a specialized implementation agency for this component to provide assistance to farmer
organizations was never implemented. Changes in the legal and regulatory framework that the project was
supposed to bring about did not materialize.

Nevertheless, the ORMVAs were very active in strengthening existing farmer organizations and in



                                                    - 10 -

promoting new ones. The staff of the ORMVAs working with farmer organizations (some 20 higher level
staff "ingenieur" and 110 support staff "technicien") provided training for OPs' leaders, participated in
the annual meetings of the cooperatives, and identified some "innovative" projects, which were subsidized
with project funds. From 1995 to 2000, the total number of farmer organizations increased from 1,178 to
2,165 and the number of members from 204,000 to 402,000. During the same period, the number of farmer
organizations that assure their own management and administration increased from 445 to 1,140 and the
number of farmer organizations that have contractual relationships with an ORMVA increased from 9 to
110. These figures have to be interpreted with great care. They say nothing about the economic strength
and cohesion of these organizations, which vary from small groups of producers to highly structured
national or regional second-tier institutions. But there is no doubt that indirectly the project has had a
significant impact on farmer organizations. The mere existence of this component raised the visibility of the
OPs and prodded the ORMVAs to undertake actions in their favor. All of the ORMVAs have come to the
realization that without strong farmer organizations agricultural development is severely hampered.

4.2.4 Component 4: Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of agricultural development in the irrigated areas:
output of this component is rated as highly unsatisfactory.

At appraisal, it was foreseen that the project would support the establishment of a system for the
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of agricultural development in the irrigated areas. The objective of this
component was to provide a basis for a better understanding of the farming systems as well as for the
ultimate evaluation of project impact.

The design and the implementation of this system (called Observatoire Technico-Economique ­ OTE) was
entrusted to the Directorate of Programming and Economic Affairs (DPAE) in the MADREF. Despite
considerable efforts by DPAE, the OTE is still not operational. The various problems are: (i) a computer
program to input and process data was developed, but is not user friendly; (ii) a questionnaire was
established, but is too long and unwieldy; (iii) a first survey was carried out in 1996/97, but data
processing is still not completed; (iv) a few reports were issued in 2000, but they are not adapted to the
needs of different levels of decision-makers; and (v) some ORMVAs continue to collect data required by
OTE, but they have not yet been input into the system. The main reason for this situation is the fact that
DPAE is overburdened with work. It could not allocate the necessary qualified staff for the time required
by this activity. The option to hire a specialized consulting firm to do this job should have been considered.

With respect to the evaluation of project impact, a consulting firm was hired in 2000 to try to establish
baseline data and to analyze the initial impact of the project. The report was issued in December 2000:
"Etablissement d'une Situation de Reference et Analyse des Premiers Impacts du PSDA." While this report
is full of interesting data it only provides a snapshot of the situation at a given time and is no substitute for
an ongoing M&E system.



4.2.5 Component 5: Studies - : output of this component is rated as satisfactory

The studies on farmer organizations and mechanization were executed toward the end of the project, while
the one on product marketing was cancelled.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

In accordance with the SAR, no economic rate of return has been calculated due to the service and
institutional development nature of the project components. However, as pointed out in paragraph 4.1.1, the
impact of the IAASP on growth in added value exceeded significantly the level necessary to offset the cost
increase arising from its incremental investment and operating expenditures. Furthermore, the overall



                                                     - 11 -

economic rate of return (ERR) of the companion LSII2 project was estimated at 23% and the analysis of
switching values showed that the inclusion of the costs of the IAASP as part of the overall costs of the
LSII2 project would not have significantly altered the ERR.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The IAASP concentrated heavily on human capital formation, with its continuous training of extension
agents and technical specialists, farmers, including women farmers and farmers' sons, and the leaders of
farmer organizations. The project also brought about frequent interactions between farmers, extension staff
and researchers. Furthermore, the project strengthened the planning and execution of technology generation
and transfer activities. Finally, the project helped to instill a strong spirit of collaboration and partnership
between the ORMVAs and farmer organizations, and, last but not least, it demonstrated the feasability of
involving women in the development process. Together, these actions have greatly improved the country's
and the ORMVA's ability to make effective use of its human and financial resources and can be expected
to have a long lasting impact.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

During project implementation, Morocco was stricken by a series of droughts (1994/95, 1996/97, 1998/99
and 1999/2000) that seriously affected the economic situation of the country in general and of agriculture
in particular. This led to a tight fiscal situation for the Government and negatively impacted farm incomes
and investments in new technologies by farmers.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Within the necessary budget cuts to deal with the difficult fiscal situation of the country during 1993-1997,
counterpart funds for the project were not given priority by the Government. It would seem that the
Government of Morocco placed higher priority on new irrigation construction than increasing the efficiency
of existing irrigation, on-farm development, etc. In addition, from 1995-98, the release of annual budget
funds was delayed by several months. This in itself led to a very slow pace of project implementation.
Finally, the budget restrictions led to cancellation or delay of providing key inputs critical to the project.
This was the case with the renewal of the vehicle fleet that led to mobility constraints especially of the
extension service. It also affected the approval and payment of technical assistance and of contractual
research.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The internal process for presenting disbursement claims to the World Bank was cumbersome and slow. As
a result, project expenditures were reimbursed by the Bank with about a one year delay. This meant that
disbursement performance under the project was very disappointing and became a constant irritant in the
relationship between the Bank and the Borrower. Successive supervision missions had to focuse primarily
on financial issues (budgeting, procurement, disbursements) at the expense of dealing with technical
aspects.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The severe budget cuts mentioned above led to successive reductions in estimated project costs and in the



                                                       - 12 -

loan amount. At appraisal, the estimated total project cost was DH494.6 million. During negotiations,
project costs were reduced to DH312.7 million, with a loan amount of US$25.0 million. In view of the slow
disbursements, during 1996, project costs were reduced to DH 231.8 million and the loan amount to US$
20.0 million. As a consequence of the mid-term review, project costs were once again adjusted downwards
to DH207.0 million and a loan amount of US$ 17.0 million. The last revision to project costs was made in
August 1999, when the loan amount was further reduced to US$ 15.2 million. At the time the loan account
was closed (October 31,2001), commitments and payments under the project reached respectively DH195.5
million and DH 186.6 million (94.4% and 90.1% of the revised project amount), and loan disbursements
reached US$ 12.8 million (84.2% of the revised loan amount).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

As long as agricultural services are financed almost entirely from the ORMVAs budgets, i.e. the public
sector, with little direct funding by producers or their organizations, their sustainability is contingent upon
budgetary decisions at the national level. In the short term, most of the activities that were financed under
the project are an integral part of what each ORMVA does under its mandate and will be continued.
However, in the new budget after the project has come to a close, no funds have been included for the
subcontracting of adaptive research between the ORMVAs and the universities/research institute.
Furthermore, the monitoring and evaluation system was under-designed and is still not operational. On this
basis, long-term sustainability of project activities is rated as unlikely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The transition to regular operations has already taken place, with budgetary funds substituting for loan
funds. No interruptions occurred and funding has remained more or less at the same level, with the
exception of the adaptive research component, where no funds for contractual research have been
earmarked. However, there is a need to decide on the longer-term future of agricultural services in the
ORMVAs irrigated areas. Who should pay for and manage extension and adaptive research? What is the
appropriate role of the public versus the private sector in the provision and management of these services?
In any event, for greater efficiency and sustainability it would seem necessary to shift the balance of
responsibility more toward the private sector, i.e. farmers' organizations. In the meantime, in order to
maintain and widen the achievements of the IAASP, notably some of the approaches to extension,
especially for women farmers, and adaptive research, it is important to create networks among interested
professionals of the ORMVAs that can continue to interact and share best practices. Careful consideration
should be given on how to manage and fund these networks.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance in the lending phase is rated as marginally satisfactory

As pointed out, the strategy for bringing about institutional changes was too narrow. It relied nearly
exclusively on foreign technical assistance and not enough on ownership and commitment from national
institutions. Certain components were under-designed (support to farmers organizations) and some aspects,
i.e., monitoring and evaluation were not adequately developed in the SAR. Also, the Bank did not think
through the implications for supervising a project to be executed by nine basically independent agencies.
Not enough thought was given to the staffing and mandate of the project unit. As designed, it was able to
handle the administrative aspects of the project but was in no position to provide technical advice and



                                                    - 13 -

leadership to the agricultural service operations of the ORMVAs. Finally, the risk of unavailability of
adequate counterpart funds was not properly assessed.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's performance in supervision is rated as marginally satisfactory

Except for the mid-term review, which involved a broader skill mix, including mission members external to
the region, most supervision missions only consisted of the mission leader (agronomist) and a financial
analyst. Given the lack of counterpart funds and the prevalence of procurement and disbursement problems,
supervision missions concentrated on "firefighting" and by necessity there was less time available for
dealing with technical issues. The farmers' organization and women in development components, as well as
monitoring and evaluation aspects, should have been supervised by technical specialists, at least every
second or third supervision mission. Recommendations contained in the action plans and legal covenants
should have been followed-up more systematically, and when no actions were taken, the Bank should have
exercised its legal remedies and suspended disbursements.

On the positive side, practically every successive supervision missions pressured for action on monitoring
and evaluation and tried to provide a minimum of technical guidance. Also, the task manager constantly
reminded his counterparts that the ultimate objective of the project was to increase farmers' income, and
that it was imperative to collect economic data to be able to demonstrate the projects economic impact. In a
larger sense, the Bank's unwavering support for the IAASP helped to ensure adequate support for
agricultural services at a time of budget crises, and to overcome initial skepticism on the part of policy
makers as to the relative importance of increasing the efficiency of existing irrigation, on- farm
development, etc. versus new irrigation construction. Also, the Bank's involvement helped certain
initiatives to get off the ground (contractual research), and expand (support to women farmers), and
undoubtedly led to a more professional management of agricultural services. Finally, the way the Bank
supervised the project, i.e. bringing key staff of the nine ORMVAs together (groups of three ORMVAs at
the headquarters of one ORMVA on a rotating basis), was excellent for the sharing of information and best
practices and favored a healthy sense of competition among the ORMVAs.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Given the above, overall Bank performance is rated as marginally satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

All the ORMVAs and MADREF closely participated in the FAO preparation missions and the Bank's
pre-appraisal and appraisal. Borrower performance at this stage was satisfactory from a technical point of
view. However, various stakeholders, especially the Ministry of Finance should have been more closely
associated to ensure a project design and scope that was within the fiscal possibilities of the country. This
would have avoided having to reduce estimated project costs and loan amount during negotiations.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Ministry of Finance was not fully convinced of the impact of some key elements of project design
(foreign technical assistance needs and contractual adaptive research). This contributed to inadequate
counterpart funds and attempts at micro-management on their part, and ultimately to implementation
delays.

7.6 Implementing Agency:




                                                     - 14 -

The Directorate of Education, Research and Development (DERD), and especially the Project Unit with its
limited resources, did a good job of looking after the administrative aspects of the project and of
maintaining a close contact with the Bank and the ORMVAs. However, DERD was understaffed and not in
a position to provide technical guidance and oversight for the various project components. On balance, the
ORMVAs on their part, executed their project activities diligently.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Given the above, overall performance of the Borrower is considered marginally satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The idea of a project to provide catalytic investments in agricultural services (software aspects) to raise the
return on the heavy sunk costs in large scale irrigation, with special attention to strengthening farmer
organizations, reaching more women farmers, and involving the university teaching/research staff in field
extension and research, is still very much relevant today, as this responds to the real and urgent needs of the
sector. The project fulfilled part of these needs. But much more needs to be done in terms of institutional
reforms to continue the shift in responsibilities to, and to increase cost-sharing with farmers and their
organizations. A new relationship between the public and private sector in terms of provision and
funding of agricultural services needs to be defined, and it will be necessary to clarify the future role of
the ORMVAs and farmer organizations in this respect. The World Bank should continue to support the
Government in this sector which plays a central role in the agricultural development of the country. It
should do so by focalizing on developing a vision for the agricultural services of the future with a much
greater role for farmer organizations.

For an agricultural services project, outputs and impact are difficult to measure, given the large number of
geographically dispersed beneficiaries, the many intervening variables and the time lags involved. For these
reasons it is not enough to agree at the outset (appraisal) only on the monitoring indicators, but it is
necessary to reach a detailed understanding on the whole monitoring and evaluation system to be
used, including methodological questions, and to carry out a baseline survey. It has to be clear from the
beginning who collects what data, how frequently, from whom, and how and by whom these data are to be
analyzed and interpreted. Only then is there a chance that the M&E system will actually work. In all
likelihood outsiders (universities, specialized consultants) should be involved from the beginning. The
World Bank should help Borrowers in this task by developing an acceptable methodology and appropriate
case materials.

The IAASP was executed by the Ministry of Agriculture (MADREF) through nine semi-autonomous
regional agricultural development authorities (ORMVAs). Within MADREF it was the Education,
Research and Development Department (DERD) that was designated to coordinate implementation and the
intervention of the other six concerned central departments of the Ministry (livestock, crop protection, etc.).
Such a project cannot be managed like an ordinary project, i.e. with a very small project unit that
concentrates on handling the central procurement of consultant services and acts as a point of liaison with
the Bank. In such a complex set-up, an institutional analysis of the Ministry and of the other
stakeholders is necessary to properly design project organization and management. If it is considered
that a Project Unit is necessary, special attention needs to be given at the outset to its mandate, terms of
reference, and staffing. As it was, the PU was understaffed, inadequately funded, with serious mobility
constraints and no technical competence of its own to guide the ORMVAs. It should have contained at least
national specialists for extension, women farmers, adaptive research and farmer organizations, with a
mandate to visit each ORMVA regularly and to animate a professional network in their respective fields.
An alternative might have been to define from the outset a matrix organization with clearly defined roles



                                                    - 15 -

and responsibilities of all the participants.

To take account of the diversity of the nine executing agencies (ORMVAs) and to calibrate the individual
project components to the needs and implementation capacity of each one, ideally nine separate IAASPs
should have been prepared. Since this would have led to prohibitive administrative costs, the alternative of
providing funding on a matching grant basis should have been considered. Under this scenario, for
every dollar/DH an ORMVA was willing to spend for a certain project component, and based on agreed
upon objectives, Bank funds could have been liberated in a given proportion. This way, each ORMVA
would have been encouraged and free to move at its own pace and put the emphasis on whatever
component it would have deemed important.

In a project, where the Bank finances a considerable amount of recurrent expenditures (even if they can be
considered as investment costs) for activities that are part of the mandate of existing organizations, the
SAR should indicate what the level of these expenditures was before the project started. Successive
supervision missions should check to make sure that Bank funds are indeed incremental. Otherwise the
risk is great that the Government reduces its previous contributions and from the institutions point of view,
there is no net increase in available resources.

Far reaching reforms to the way nine semi-autonomous institutions/ORMVAs operate on a daily basis
(degree and modality of farmer participation in extension, approach to adaptive research and women
farmers) cannot be brought about only by technical assistance and studies. They require an explicit
commitment of national policy makers and the people in charge of the ORMVAs from the outset. A clear
strategy and plan of action, including the creation of a national intervention group and the identification of
local "champions of change" within each ORMVA is necessary for success. For the Bank to be able to
influence such processes, it would have to be able to follow-up closely and frequently, and this could
probably only be done by having someone posted in the Resident Mission who would do this continuously .

Technical assistance and studies should not be designed as prerequisites for launching the implementation
of key project components and tied to dated covenants several months or years down the road. This
removes the pressure to take action, and the inevitable delays in the recruitment of consultants, especially
foreign consultants, leads to further inaction. Either these studies are so important that they should be
finished before the project starts, or if not, they should be conceived as interventions to further improve
ongoing activities. In any event, they cannot substitute for commitment on the part of the government or
executing agencies.

Legal covenants and agreed upon action plans need systematic follow-up. If no action is forthcoming, the
Bank should be willing to exercise its legal remedies and not hesitate to suspend disbursements for a given
component, an executing agency, or for the project as a whole.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Government sent to the Bank their own evaluation of the Project wholly attached in Annex 8, the main
conclusions of which are presented below:

Project design:
· There were shortcomings in project design, especially since the components and activities planned for
each ORMVA          were more or less standardized, and thus did not take into account the different
organizational characteristics of each ORMVA and the variations in the environments in which they
operate.
· The labeling of expenditures in the text of the SAR was different from the ones used in the COSTAB.
This made it difficult to relate physical and financial performance indicators.


                                                     - 16 -

· The monitoring and evaluation component (observatoire technico-economique ­ OTE) was insufficiently
developed in the SAR.

Achievement of Project Objectives:
· The qualitative and rather broad nature of the IAASP's objectives make it impossible to judge them in
quantitative terms. Furthermore, many exogenous and uncontrollable factors have greatly influenced the
execution of the project and thus the achievement of the established objectives.
· Nevertheless, based on circumstantial evidence, it is clear that the project contributed to raising farmers'
incomes. Also, great strides were made in improving the quality and quantity of service delivery by the
ORMVAs. The objective of encouraging the emergence of strong, independent OPs was only partly
achieved, since the ORMVAs' actions in this regard were timid. Finally, the adaptive research carried out
in the context of the IAASP was very successful, in terms of research results obtained and transferred to
farmers, training of staff and interactions between researchers, extension agents and farmers.

Assessment of the Implementation of Components:
· Transfer of technology. (i) Adaptive research. Despite severe funding cutbacks and implementation
delays, this subcomponent had the benefit of directly involving trainers and researchers in the technology
transfer process and developing a planning mindset and understanding of these issues among ORMVA staff
that did not exist before the project. Valuable research results were generated that are in the process of
being transferred to farmers. (ii) Agricultural extension. Despite considerable delays in the carrying out of
specific diagnostic studies to guide extension activities, the IAASP has significantly strengthened the
ORMVAs' agricultural extension system. Extension activities have increased and have become more
participatory, more bottom-up, and reflect better farmers' needs. The results could have been even more
impressive, were it not for a shortage of extension agents, mobility constraints and the multitude of tasks
that are assigned to them. (iii) Women program. The lack of female extension workers seriously hampered
this subcomponent. Nevertheless, the project contributed to efforts aimed at improving family welfare and
has shown the need for developing a national strategy for the advancement of rural women. (iv) Training.
Training is unanimously considered the most positive feature of the IAASP.
· Supporting services. In the areas of soil and plant analysis, agro-meteorology, and pest management,
varying progress was made by the different ORMVAs. However, achievements are fragile and there is a
risk of backsliding unless staff are continuously trained, farmers are associated and adequate funding is
provided
· Professional Organizations. In the absence of a comprehensive strategy for the ORMVAs' intervention
with OPs, progress differs from one ORMVA to the next. Considerable progress was made in increasing
the number of farmer organizations, and in improving the management of existing OPs. Also, the project
led to important changes in the relationship between OPs and the ORMVAs, based on consultation,
contracting and partnership. However, a clearer strategy must be developed to further integrate OPs in the
entire process of defining, financing and implementing agricultural policies in irrigated areas.
· Monitoring and evaluation. The situation concerning this aspect remains unsatisfactory.

Bank Performance:
· During project preparation, the World Bank was in constant contact with the various central and regional
entities involved in the project, and the approaches developed under the different components constituted
the core of the agricultural strategies developed by the ORMVAs.
· During project execution, the World Bank's project supervision plan was sound and was consistently
carried out. The supervision missions allowed for: (i) sharing of information and experience among all the
participants, (ii) providing decisive support for starting up critical activities (studies, adaptive research,
procurement), and (iii) a close monitoring of the financial and disbursement situation.

Lessons Learned:



                                                     - 17 -

· The IAASP was the right project at the right time. It demonstrated: (i) the crucial role that agricultural
services have to play to enable farmers to make best use of the country's investments in irrigation
infrastructure, (ii) the need for a clear agricultural strategy for irrigated areas and closer consultation
among ORMVAs and between ORMVAs and the Ministry of Agriculture, (iii) the benefits of closer
linkages between farmers, extension agents and researchers, (iv) the importance of integrating rural women
in agricultural development activities, and (v) the imperative to develop a partnership between the
ORMVAs and farmers to accelerate agricultural development through the promotion of farmers'
organizations.
· In order to sustain the achievements under the IAASP, it is important that the Government pays special
attention to: (i) the manpower needs for extension (replacement of staff that retires and lifting of the
restrictions on the hiring of female staff), (ii) the adequacy of financial resources allocated to the
functioning of the agricultural services of the ORMVAs, and (iii) continuity of certain activities introduced
under the IAASP, such as contractual adaptive research, and support for innovative OPs and income
generating projects for rural women.
· For similar operations in the future, some of the design characteristics should be as follows: a) each
ORMVA should have a project tailored to its own circumstances, b) the time frame should be longer so
that project impact can be evaluated, c) studies should be carried out in a preliminary two-year phase so
that action plans and financing levels can be based on the results of these studies, and d) efforts should be
made to promote complementarities and synergy of execution with other projects implemented at the same
time within each ORMVA.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                   - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                          1
               Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate

- Increase yields of three main             Not Available                      1. Gharb:
crops/livestock activities per ORMVA; from                                     Soft wheat: 27 to 28qx/ha
1994 to 1999; (*)                                                              Sugar beet: 30.5 to 44.1T/ha
                                                                               Citrus: 18.5 to 23.4T/ha
                                                                               2. Loukkos:
                                                                               Groundnuts: 25.0 to 26.9 qx/ha
                                                                               Sugar beet: 47.8 to 34.2T/ha
                                                                               Sugar cane: 63.6 to 80.1T/ha
                                                                               3. Doukkala:
                                                                               Soft wheat: 44 to 45 qx/ha
                                                                               Sugar beet: 65 to 68 T/ha
                                                                               Maize: 34 to 45 qx/ha
                                                                               4. Tadla:
                                                                               Soft wheat: 46 to 53.5qx/ha
                                                                               Sugar beet: 43.1 to 51.8 T/ha
                                                                               Citrus: 19.8 to 23.5 T/ha
                                                                               5. Souss-Massa:
                                                                               Tomatoes in greenhouse: 120 to 140T/ha
                                                                               Tomatoes in the field: 60 to 64 T/ha
                                                                               Citrus: 25.5 to 22.1T/ha
                                                                               6. Moulouya:
                                                                               Soft wheat: 27 to 31.5 qx/ha
                                                                               Sugar beet: 41.1 to 61.1T/ha
                                                                               Citrus: 15.7 to 20.3 T/ha
                                                                               7. Haouz:
                                                                               Soft wheat: 32.9 to 26.4qx/ha
                                                                               Olives: not available
                                                                               8. Tafilalet:
                                                                               Barley: 25 to 12qx/ha
                                                                               Olives: 23 to 14.3 kg/tree
                                                                               Dates: 25 to 26.3 kg/tree
                                                                               9. Ouarzazate:
                                                                               Barley: 16.7 to 18 qx/ha
                                                                               Alfalfa: 58 to 59T/ha
                                                                               Dates:3.7 to 5.9T/ha
- Increase overall production of three main Not Available                      1. Gharb:
crop/livestock activities per ORMVA; from                                      Soft wheat: 486,783qx to 656,376qx
1994 to 1999; (*)                                                              Sugar beet: 214,689T to 231,260T
                                                                               Citrus: 131,522T to 169,720T
                                                                               2. Loukkos:
                                                                               Groundnuts: 176,000qx to 301,610qx
                                                                               Sugar beet: 376,218T to 122,874T
                                                                               Sugar cane: 284,105T to 380,310T
                                                                               3. Doukkala:
                                                                               Soft wheat: 319,440qx to 387,090qx
                                                                               Sugar beet: 1,134,195T to 1,221,323T
                                                                               Maize: 64,260qx to 261,675qx
                                                                               4. Tadla:
                                                                               Soft wheat: 1,574,800qx to 1,793,750qx
                                                                               Sugar beet: 529,932T to 952,909T
                                                                               Citrus: 123,000T to 168,000T
                                                                               5. Souss-Massa:
                                                                               Tomatoes in greenhouse: 216,240T to
                                                                               410,330T
                                                                               Tomatoes on the field:51,000T to 44,400T
                                                                               Citrus: 627,500T to 620,000T
                                                                               6. Moulouya:
                                                                               Soft wheat: 261,300qx to 272,100qx
                                                                               Sugar beet: 112,174T to 231,041T
                                                                               Citrus: 126,939T to 185,140T
                                                                               7. Haouz:
                                                                               Soft wheat: 807,740qx to 961,905qx




                                                            - 19 -

                                                                       Olives: not available
                                                                       8. Tafilalet:
                                                                       Barley: 221,880qx to 31,524qx
                                                                       Olives: 17,700T to 11,120T
                                                                       Dates: 18,944T to 17,780T
                                                                       9. Ouarzazate:
                                                                       Barley: 201,744qx to 127,120qx
                                                                       Alfalfa: 611,000T to 731,600T
                                                                       Dates:31,000T to 50,100T
- Increase cropping intensity per ORMVA;       Not Available           1.Gharb: not available
average 1990-94 to average1995-99; (*)                                 2.Loukkos: 96.4% to 105%
                                                                       3. Doukkala: 125.5% to 127%
                                                                       4. Tadla: 108.6% to 118%
                                                                       5. Souss-Massa: not available
                                                                       6. Moulouya: 87.7% to 101%
                                                                       7. Haouz: 104.7% to 110%
                                                                       8. Tafilalet: 109% to 112%
                                                                       9. Ouarzazate: 119.3% to 119%
- Number of farmers participating in soil      Not Available           Data not Available; The farmers participating
analysis and in pest management programs;                              in soil analysis are still very few
- Reduction in fertilizers and pesticides use; Not Available           Data not Available; Some ORMVAs have
                                                                       developed regional specific fertilizer
                                                                       recommendations and/or a pest and disease
                                                                       warning system. The adoption by farmers of
                                                                       these new fertilizer formulas and
                                                                       recommendations on disease treatment is in
                                                                       progress and would allow to reduce fertilizers
                                                                       and pesticides uses.

(*)IAASP impacts study-December 2000.




                                                             - 20 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                            1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Adaptive Research                         Not Available                       total during the project
N0 of subcontracted research topics                                              27
N0 of ORMVA executed research topics                                             203
2. Extension                                 Not Available                       1995 ; 2000
N0 of extension engineers                                                        146;183
N0 of extension technicians                                                      734;624
N0 of farmers reached in groups                                                  17,233; 45,786
N0 of farmers reached individually                                               79,129; 110;031
N0 of farmers participating in demonstrations                                    4639; 5475
3. Women program                             Not Available                       2000
N0 of high level staff assigned                                                  6
N0 of support staff assigned                                                     40
N0 of women trained                                                              16,899
N0 of women travelled                                                            3,903
N0 of women OP created                                                           48
N0 of women members of OP                                                        1,416
4. Farmers' Organizations (OP)               Not Available                       1995; 2000
N0 of OP                                                                         1,178; 2,165
of which livestock OP                                                            372; 626
of which Water Users Associations                                                310; 904

5. Training                                  Not vailable                        total during the project
N0 of staff-weeks provided                                                       4,582

1End of project




                                                              - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
              Project Cost By Component                   US$ million   US$ million
Components according to COSTAB (different from SAR)
1. Extension                                                13.70          10.45             76.5
2. Women' program                                            1.50            0.74            49.7
3. Farmers'Organizations                                     4.10            1.42            34.2
4. Agricultural Production                                   8.10            6.08            75.1
5. Livestock                                                 2.80            1.76            62.2
6. Central Directorates                                      4.50            1.27            28.1

Total Baseline Cost                                         34.70          21.72


                         Total Project Costs                34.70          21.72
                   Total Financing Required                 34.70          21.72


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             1.40         0.00         0.00          1.40
                                  (0.00)           (1.20)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (1.20)
2. Goods                           5.70             2.80         0.70         0.00          9.20
                                  (4.60)           (2.20)      (0.60)         (0.00)       (7.40)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00        10.70         0.00         10.70
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (10.10)        (0.00)      (10.10)
4. Incremental Operation           0.00             0.00        13.40         0.00         13.40
Costs
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (6.30)         (0.00)       (6.30)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
    Total                          5.70             4.20        24.80         0.00         34.70
                                  (4.60)           (3.40)      (17.00)        (0.00)      (25.00)




                                                - 22 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               0.80              0.00             0.00              0.80
                                           (0.00)             (0.62)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.62)
   2. Goods                                 0.00               6.79              0.00             0.00              6.79
                                           (0.00)             (3.39)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (3.39)
   3. Services                              0.02               9.34              0.00             0.00              9.36
                                           (0.02)             (6.86)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (6.88)
   4. Incremental Operation                 0.00               4.77              0.00             0.00              4.77
   Costs
                                           (0.00)             (1.71)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.71)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)               ()              (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.16)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.16)
       Total                                0.02              21.70              0.00             0.00             21.72
                                           (0.02)            (12.74)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (12.76)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Components according to
COSTAB
1. Extension                    9.82         3.83                     7.21         3.24                  73.4      84.6
2. Women' program               1.07         0.42                     0.51         0.23                  47.7      54.8
3. Farmers' Organizations       2.98         1.16                     0.98         0.44                  32.9      37.9
4. Agricultural Production      5.82         2.27                     4.20         1.88                  72.2      82.8
5. Livestock                    2.04         0.80                     1.22         0.54                  59.8      67.5
6. Central Directorates         3.26         1.27                     0.88         0.39                  27.0      30.7




                                                           - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                     - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              September 1991            1    Agronomist
              September 1992            5    Agronomist, Agricultural
                                             Economist, Horticulturalist,
                                             Extension Specialist, Sociologist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              February 1993             5    Agronomist, Agricultural
                                             Economist, Horticulturalist,
                                             Extension Specialist,
                                             Financial Analyst
              November 1993             3    Agronomist, Lawyer,
                                             Disbursement Officer

 Supervision
              May 1994                  3    TTL, Economist, Extension             S              HS
                                             Specialist
              April 1995                2    TTL, Economist                        HS             HS
              December 1995             2    TTL, Financial Analyst                U               U
              May 1996                  1    TTL                                   U               U
              June 1996                 1    TTL                                   S               S
              December 1996             1    TTL                                   U               U
              July 1997                 1    TTL                                   S               S
              December 1997             4    TTL, Cooperative Specialist,          S               U
                                             Research &Extension Specialist
                                             Financial Analyst
              May 1998                  2    TTL, Financial Analyst                S               U
              December 1998             3    TTL, Operations Officer,              U               U
                                             Financial Analyst
              June 1999                 1    TTL                                   S               S
              December 1999             2    TTL, Economist                        S               S
              June 2000                 4    TTL, Operations officer,              S               S
                                             Economist, Financial Analyst
              January 2001              3    TTL, Research and Extension           S               S
                                             Specialist, Financial Analyst
              June 2001                 3    TTL, Agricultural Services            S               S
                                             Specialist, Financial Analyst

 ICR




                                              - 25 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                           305.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                       included in the
                                                               amount above
  Supervision                                                          502.1
  ICR                                                                   20.0
  Total                                                                827.6




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU


In the text, Bank and Borrower performances are rated as "marginally satisfactory". Thus, S on the form
above should be interpreted as 'marginally satisfactory'.




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.     Staff Appraisal Report No. 11947-MOR, Irrigated Areas Agricultural Services Project --- World
Bank. November 23, 1993

2.     Loan Agreement.

3.     Project Agreement.

4.     Aide Memoires, Back To Office Reports and Project Status Reports

5.     Morocco - Irrigated Areas Agricultural Services Project. Mid-term Review Report ---World Bank.

6.     Semi-annual Project Progress Reports of the ORMVAs and the Project Unit

7.     Studies and Consultant Reports

       (a) Diagnostic Participatif de la Vulgarisation Agricole et de l'Animation Feminine dans les Zones
ORMVA; DERD/FAO; Messrs. Bloemberg,                      Bourarach, El Attir, Lakjara, Moussaoui, Zahid;
Mars 1999
       (b) Composante "Organisations Professionnelles;" Messrs. Agbani, El Alaoui, Laforge, Sbai; Nov.
1999
       (c) Etablissement d'une Situation de Reference et Analyse des Premiers Impacts du PSDA,
Rapport Final ; DERD/Agro-Concept ; Décembre 2000
       (d) Etude de la mécanisation agricole dans les périmètres des ORMVA. ADI- Avril 2001
       (e) Evaluation de la Recherche Adaptative dans les ORMVA ; FAO ; Messrs. Agbani, Harzeni,
Laamamri; Juin 2001




                                                   - 29 -

   Additional Annex 8. Borrower Project Assessment



   IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
                                              (IAASP)

                                 COMPLETION REPORT




1- Assessment of the Design of Project Objectives and Components as Defined in
the Initial Appraisal Report

1-1-       Assessment of Objectives

The IAASP objectives were as follows:

- Raise agricultural production and farmers' incomes;
- Streamline the agricultural services provided by the Regional Authorities for Agricultural
Development (ORMVAs) and improve their organization;
- Encourage the development of farmers' organizations;
- Promote contributions by research and training institutions to development actions carried out by
the ORMVAs.

The IAASP is a project with innovative objectives focusing mainly on changing human behavior
(farmers and ORMVA staff) and improving a number of indicators (production, profitability, farmers'
incomes, etc.) subject to the interaction of exogenous factors that are difficult to control.

These objectives are in line with the strategy of the Ministry of Agriculture that seeks to make
significant state investments in the area of hydro-agricultural equipment profitable. They reflect the
desire to add to and complete the reforms carried out in the context of LSIII2 project and thus
ensure the integration of actions carried out by the ORMVAs.

The IAASP's primary objective of improving farmers' incomes in itself constitutes the best measure
of the viability of all the operations undertaken by the ORMVAs, particularly the water service,
which is closely tied to improvements in the farmers' payment of fees for irrigation water.

However, the IAASP's formulation of the objectives posed problems when an effort was made to
evaluate them because the objectives are qualitative and thus difficult to measure.

1-2-       Assessment of Components



                                                   - 30 -

The components, as described in the initial appraisal report, were judiciously defined and designed to
achieve the project's objectives. Their physical and financial dimensions adequately reflect the desire
to remedy the deficiencies identified at project preparation by implementing appropriate approaches,
procedures and means.

The liberalization of crop rotation has made it imperative to make significant changes in the
intervention priorities of ORMVAs agricultural services. This assumes more consultation with
"customers" and consequently more agricultural extension activities and promotion of farmers'
organizations.

These two aspects, moreover, totaled, respectively, 42% and 16% of the initial project amount.
However, despite the efforts of the teams in charge of preparation and the initial appraisal, the
following gaps and shortcomings were found:

· Action programs have been nearly standard for all the ORMVAs and thus do not take into
account the organizational characteristics and assets and constraints in each zone involved.
· The naming of the components in the initial appraisal report does not correspond to that used in
the cost tables (costab); this has led to confusion in the execution reports when drawing connections
between physical and financial operations. For example, the crop production and livestock aspects
are considered components in the costab, whereas in the evaluation report their content appears in
the technology transfer and support actions components.
· The technical and economic observatory component has been integrated in the project without
any description of its objectives, content, execution modalities and cost distribution.
· Regarding the financial program, for the same type of expenses, some units differ from one
component to the next.
· The multiplicity of participants for certain components (OPs, for example) delayed their execution
to some extent, given the absence of a firm commitment from each participant from the outset to
carry out the tasks for which they were responsible.

2- Revisions to Project Objectives and Components

From initial appraisal to completion, the IAASP has been subject to several cutbacks basically due to
problems in organizing the anticipated funds.

Thus, the project, initially assessed at DH 494,665,000, was first cut back following discussions with
the Ministry of Finance on the eve of the loan negotiations with the World Bank. The reductions
affected mainly buildings (housing), work materials (vehicles and laboratory and agricultural
equipment), and some operating expenses (fuel, travel).

At the conclusion of the negotiations, the project amount was DH 312,746,800; however, the World
Bank expressed concern regarding the coherence of the project, which was affected by the cutbacks.

This situation could have been avoided if the Ministry of Finance had been involved in determining
the dimensions of the project in all phases of its preparation.



                                                     - 31 -

During execution of the IAASP, the evolution of the project and loan amounts was as follows:

                                      Date               Project amount (DH)           Loan amount ($)
Initial amount                     Nov. 1993                 312,746,800                  25,000,000
1st revision                       Aug. 1996                 231,781,000                  20,000,000
2nd revision                       Aug. 1998                 207,015,000                  17,005,000
3rd revision                       Aug. 1999                 207,015,000                  15,158,427



The three cutbacks during project execution were occasioned by:

· The inadequacy of the budgetary allocations set aside for the project in the context of the draft
budgets (see Appendix 2); and

· The restrictions imposed at various decision-making levels regarding the utilization of a portion of
the funds provided by the project. These restrictions were indicated primarily in the guidelines
regarding preparation of draft budgets. They involved the purchase of vehicles, office and computer
equipment, and foreign travel.

It must be pointed out that when cutbacks were made to the project amount and the World Bank
loan, neither the project's objectives nor the cost tables were updated. Moreover, the project ended
up being considered a substitute for the customary budgets of the ORMVAs, especially since, instead
of representing a supplement to these budgets, the IAASP then totaled 80 to 90% of the budget
intended for agricultural development.

The cutbacks by component, as indicated in the costab, for the most part affected women's
development (62%), farmers' organizations (60%), and livestock (43%) (see table in Appendix 3).

The 71% reduction in the technical and economic observatory component does not reflect the reality,
as most of the ORMVAs have recorded these expenses under the crop production and livestock
components. Another portion of these expenses has been recorded at the central offices level, leading
to a 14% increase in the budget set aside for these offices.

For women's development, the 62% reduction is explained by the fact that the project was linked to
the realization of activities to reinforce the numbers of female extension workers by hiring 3
engineers and 30 technical staff. This reinforcement did not happen and thus the activity of the
ORMVAs was limited.

Regarding farmers' organizations, the 60% reduction was the result of delays in turning to "Support
for Innovative OPs." This support should have been planned by the regional steering committees,
assisted by consultants. The consultants were only hired in 1998.

For the livestock component, in addition to the reduction in work materials that affected all the other
components, the adaptive research program was almost completely eliminated.


                                                   - 32 -

In conclusion, the cutbacks made to the project components are not a function of their initial physical
organization or their share of the budget; rather, they resulted from a loss of overall project
coherence owing to the failure to strictly apply the planned programs and measures.




3- Assessment of the Achievement of the Various Objectives and Components of
the Revised Project

3-1-       Assessment of Objectives

The qualitative and rather broad nature of the IAASP's objectives make it impossible to judge them
in quantitative terms. Furthermore, many exogenous and uncontrollable factors have greatly
influenced the execution of the project and thus the achievement of the established objectives.

It should be borne in mind that the nature of the actions provided for in the project framework led the
World Bank to conclude that the project's impact could not be measured quantitatively and that a
classical cost-benefit analysis was not feasible.

The degree to which the objectives were achieved varies according to the nature of their respective
components and the conditions for their implementation (time period, financing, technical feasibility,
etc.).

*Objective 1: Raising agricultural production and farmers' incomes:

On the basis of the results of the analytical study of the initial impact of the IAASP conducted in
1999, it was noted that project components were directly and indirectly involved in raising farmers'
incomes. Yields from the principal irrigated crops improved in comparison with the pre-project
period, but this improvement is the result of a series of actions carried out by different agents
involved in agricultural production.

*Objective 2: Streamlining the management of the ORMVAs' agricultural services and improving
their organization:

Great strides were made in the organization of work in the agricultural services as a result of project
support for staff training, the introduction of new approaches and methods for identifying farmers'
needs, planning, and assigning responsibility to agents responsible for carrying out activities.

These advances were also the fruit of ongoing consultation and sharing of experience among the
various participants. This process was of the most positive aspects of the IAASP.

Improvements in the quality of farmers' training and the development of partnerships were achieved
thanks to the clear vision introduced by the IAASP in defining the objectives of the ORMVAs within
the context of their agricultural development strategies.


                                                   - 33 -

*Objective 3: Encouraging the development of farmers' organizations:

This objective was only partially achieved, for reasons that will be cited when assessing the
implementation of components.

The timid and limited nature of the ORMVAs' actions to foster OPs has not facilitated the emergence
of dynamic and motivated OPs capable of assuming greater responsibilities in the orientation,
financing and execution of agricultural development activities.

*Objective 4: Promoting contributions by research and training institutions to development actions
carried out by ORMVAs.

Trainers and researchers from major national institutions contributed to the implementation of nearly
all of the project's components. They took part mainly in the upgrading and ongoing training of
ORMVAs' staff, thus facilitating the execution of all project components and the deployment of
operational teams capable of ensuring the sustainability of the project's actions.

Many of the research findings were transferred to the farmers through the adaptive research
programs implemented with the participation of trainers and researchers.

The studies and diagnoses carried out in the context of the IAASP provided an opportunity for
ORMVAs and training and research institutions to collaborate in identifying the real problems that
hinder agricultural development and introducing new experience in all discussions on the ways
ORMVAs should interact with their "customers."




3-2-       Assessment of the Implementation of Components:

3-2-1- Technology Transfer


a- Adaptive Research

During project execution, the initial adaptive research program established in 1994 was cut back by
nearly 4/5 due to the elimination of some topics by the World Bank (they were deemed inconsistent
with the project's objectives) and the delay in launching activities because of budgetary restrictions
and reservations expressed in 1996 by the Ministry of Finance.

Despite these difficulties, this subcomponent had the benefit of directly involving trainers and
researchers in the technology transfer process and developing a planning mindset among ORMVA
staff based on statements of purpose and on real benefits and anticipated figures for each topic.




                                                  - 34 -

In most cases, farmers were also involved in the design and implementation of research trials.

The results obtained during the course of the project have been transferred to potential users
(farmers, manufacturers, etc.) and will be shared among the ORMVAs through the information
network to be set up by DERD.

In addition to the agricultural and economic impact of this research (contracted or not), the IAASP
made it possible to strengthen the resources of the ORMVAs' experimental stations. This has
reinforced their value as an important link in the research-development chain

The objective for the future is to pursue this action in order to ensure the continued availability of
new technical information for extension programs while also seeking to involve farmers in their
financing.

b- Agricultural Extension

The chronology established in the project for executing this subcomponent was seriously affected by
the delay in carrying out the diagnostic study due to payment difficulties relating to the agreement
reached for this purpose with the FAO.

Thus, with the exception of the Souss Massa ORMVA, which carried out its own diagnostic study in
1995, the first two years of the project were marked by an extension program based on the
experience acquired by the ORMVAs under the research-extension project and on the preliminary
diagnoses included in the IAASP preparation reports.

Subsequently, training of ORMVA staff led to notable improvements in the planning and execution
of extension activities.

The belated preparation of the diagnostic study in 1998 made it impossible to take advantage of its
results in executing the extension activities according to project expectations. Nevertheless, all the
participants agreed that the IAASP has significantly strengthened the ORMVAs' agricultural
extension system, as follows:

- Emergence of the participatory approach as a major tool for designing action programs that, by
involving other partners, will be based on multi-year programs with objectives and priorities
reflecting the ORMVAs' agricultural development strategies and the expressed needs of farmers;
- A substantial increase in extension activities undertaken by the ORMVAs;
- Adoption of planning from the ground up (from the field to headquarters) thus inverting the
planning method used prior to the IAASP;
- Choice of topics reflecting the priority and immediate needs of farmers with their participation;
- Establishment of a more favorable context for more efficient intervention by the ORMVAs
through additional equipment, improved human resource capabilities, development of support
services, etc.

    The results of the IAASP could have been more impressive without certain constraints associated



                                                    - 35 -

    with:

- Inadequate human resources: despite the clear improvement in qualitative terms, the ORMVAs
are beginning to experience a shortage of staff due to restrictions on hiring, especially since the
ORMVAs have not redeployed staff from headquarters to the field as recommended by the IAASP.
- Inadequate transport facilities: the number of units allocated to extension workers remains below
what is needed to ensure local training.
- The multitude of tasks assigned to training staff.

c- Women's Development

A comprehensive evaluation of this subcomponent is difficult to carry out as performance has been
affected by the particular conditions within each ORMVA. These conditions are:

- the number of female community development workers available
- the extent of women's involvement in agricultural work
- the work materials made available to female community development workers
- the existence of other projects carried out at the same time as the IAASP


The lack of female community development workers seriously hampered this subcomponent because
the project's recommendation to hire 3 engineers and 30 technical staff was not carried out. Thus, all
ORMVA interventions on behalf of rural women during IAASP implementation were very modest.

Nonetheless, the project contributed to efforts aimed at improving family welfare in agricultural
operations. This was achieved through training and consciousness-raising activities for rural women
and the financing of several income-producing projects. An innovation contributed by the project was
the organization by several ORMVAs of trips outside the area for groups of rural women.

The IAASP also fostered understanding and recognition of the roles and contributions of rural
women, developed their organizational capabilities and improved the skills of female extension
workers.

In light of the experience gained from the IAASP, promoting the subsector necessarily calls for
developing a strategy for the advancement of rural women, increasing the numbers of female
community development workers (with a resulting improvement in the work materials made available
to them), and financing income-producing projects.

d- Training

Training is unanimously considered the most positive feature of the IAASP framework. A part of all
components, training was provided for the benefit of all who participate in agricultural development
(management, technical staff, farmers, rural women, members of farmers' organizations).

Thus, most of the improvements and results achieved during project execution can to a great extent


                                                   - 36 -

be attributed to training:

- improvement in the working methods of ORMVA staff;
- improvement in extension workers' ability to train farmers;
- improvement in the ability of farmers to express their needs and implement recommended
techniques;
- development of negotiating power and a spirit of partnership within farmers' organizations;
- improved management in farmers' organizations.

This training has also had the benefit of keeping public and private training institutions abreast of the
major concerns of the ORMVAs.

However, the impact of training was barely evaluated due to the absence of a precise evaluation
methodology. The ORMVAs had made do with the "on-the-spot" evaluations by the trainees
themselves. In this regard, support from the central offices did not meet the expectations of the
ORMVAs.

Moreover, due to restrictions imposed in the state budget, training and foreign travel were very
limited in the context of the IAASP.

3-2-2- Professional Organization

In the absence of a comprehensive strategy for the ORMVAs' intervention with farmers'
organizations, the rate at which this component was implemented differs from one ORMVA to the
next.

The dominant networks and their degree of organization greatly influenced the nature of the activities
undertaken.

The expectation was that regional steering committees would be installed and the consultants would
assist them in establishing action plans based on regional diagnoses. Unfortunately, the consultants
were not hired until the end of the project and the steering committees for most of the ORMVAs
have remained inactive.

This situation did not prevent the ORMVAs from making significant progress under this component,
namely:

- increasing the number of farmers' organizations with the creation of numerous producers'
associations, cooperatives and water users associations;
- improving the management of existing farmers' organizations through intensive training of their
members and methodological support to their administrative boards;
- developing a spirit of partnership and negotiating abilities among the members of farmers'
organizations thanks to consciousness-raising efforts and the sharing of experiences provided by trips
within Morocco and overseas.




                                                  - 37 -

Support in the form of subsidies to innovative farmers' organizations did not reach the level
anticipated for the project. The beneficiary farmers' organizations should actually have been selected
by the regional steering committees, which were not operational. The intervention of the World Bank
and the central offices was decisive in assisting the ORMVAs to begin granting these subsidies
starting in 1998.

Finally, the project led to important changes in the relationship between farmers' organizations and
the ORMVAs, based on consultation, contracting and partnership. However, a clearer strategy must
be developed to further integrate farmers' organizations in the entire process of defining, financing
and implementing agricultural development policies in irrigated areas.

3-2-3- Support Activities

a- Laboratory Analyses

The principal objective of such analyses is to promote the more rational use of inputs with a view to
greater economic efficiency and fewer harmful effects on the environment.

The equipment purchased under the IAASP strengthened the operating capabilities of the analytical
laboratories, enabling the ORMVAs to provide better advice on fertilizing and resulting in a net
increase in the number of specific analyses (soil, water, plants).         Even though some of the
laboratories continue to operate below capacity, the actions undertaken in this sphere had the merit
of raising awareness and drawing the attention of farmers to the economic, agricultural and
environmental benefits of such analyses.

Some ORMVAs now have regional fertilizer standards which are reflected in new fertilizer formulas
produced by industrial units.

However, because some farmers did not defray 50% of the cost of the analyses and staff were not
adequately trained to interpret the results of analyses and to use the materials purchased under the
project, the progress made in this regard may be jeopardized over the long term.

b- Agro meteorological Stations

Water is a limiting factor in all of Morocco's agricultural regions. Accordingly, rationalization and
increased efficiency in the use of water are the goals of all managers and users of irrigation systems.

It is from this perspective that the IAASP financed the installation and/or rehabilitation of agro
meteorological stations at the ORMVA level.

The data collected on these stations made it possible to:

- establish an irrigation control system in several ORMVAs, particularly Souss Massa, where
farmers base usage on the global radiation posted by an experimental station;
- contribute to the establishment of phytosanitary warning networks;


                                                   - 38 -

- support agricultural extension messages, particularly those relating to weather conditions required
to promote crop production.

c- Phytosanitary Warning Systems

One objective of the IAASP was to establish phytosanitary warning systems to ensure rational efforts
to combat the pests that were damaging the principal crops in each ORMVA.

The systems were established within the framework of partnership agreements between the
ORMVAs and DPVCTRF. They facilitated a net reduction in the number of phytosanitary crop
treatments and the use of products with limited ecological repercussions, taking surrounding fauna
into account.

Thus, treatment notices are issued whenever necessary by the ORMVAs with assistance from
observation sites and the weather data collected.

In some cases, a lack of adequate transportation facilities at DPVCTRF regional offices significantly
limited the implementation of planned activities. In effect, vehicle purchases planned for this purpose
under the project did not occur due to restrictions imposed in the draft budgets.

3-2-4- Monitoring and Evaluation

a- Technical and Economic Observatory (OTE)

Provision was made in the project for the OTE but no specifics were provided in the initial appraisal
report regarding its content or the methods for its establishment.

This was the principal reason for the delay in launching the OTE, which required several sessions for
discussion and consultation between the central offices and the ORMVAs before the necessary tools
and manuals were adopted and training for ORMVA managers was developed.

A preliminary survey was conducted in 1997/1998. However, while the ORMVAs submitted the
survey results for synthesizing, DPAE did not produce a summary until 2000, and even recourse to a
research firm to lend impetus to this component did not yield conclusive findings.

It was therefore obvious, in view of the difficulties encountered, that in order to remedy this situation
it is necessary to decentralize the processing of the data collected and develop high-performance data
processing software. Meanwhile, now that the IAASP has been completed, the situation within the
ORMVAs is uncertain. Some of the authorities continue to gather data without any processing while
others have completely stopped gathering data.

b- Monitoring and Evaluation of Project Components:

The task of monitoring and evaluating the project's components presented many problems for the
structures responsible for coordinating, carrying out and supervising the project.


                                                    - 39 -

Indeed, the list of indicators established by the World Bank during the loan negotiations proved to be
difficult to apply in practice.

Although a number of attempts were made during IAASP implementation to ensure appropriate
monitoring and evaluation, the reports submitted by the ORMVAs yielded meager information with
which to inform decision-makers of the real impact of IAASP actions on agricultural operations. The
use of consultants for an analytical study of the preliminary impact of the IAASP did not succeed in
resolving this problem, although some improvements generated by the IAASP were identified.

3-2-5- Studies

Most of the studies called for by the IAASP were carried out later than anticipated. Nonetheless, the
studies were very helpful in elucidating the situations within the ORMVAs with respect to the issues
covered. In addition to the six studies common to all the ORMVAs (participatory diagnosis of
agricultural extension and women's development activities, OPs, establishment of a reference
situation and analysis of the initial impact of the IAASP, evaluation of adaptive research and
mechanization), some ORMVAs undertook their own studies, either in the context of agreements
with specialized institutions or as part of their own activities. These include diagnostic studies of
agricultural extension activities and of deficiencies in the skills of staff providing training.

The approach adopted when conducting these studies made it possible to set up operational teams in
each ORMVA with sufficient training to ensure the continuity of the approaches recommended for
implementing agricultural development activities.

Only the study on the marketing of agricultural products could not be carried out, due to a series of
delays by DPAE in establishing the terms of reference and the specifications.

4-Assessment of Bank Performance during Project Preparation and
Execution:

4-1- During Project Preparation:

From the identification of the IAASP in March 1991 to its negotiation in November 1993, the World
Bank was in constant contact with the various central and regional entities involved in the project.

Thus, the missions carried out by the FAO's Investment Center (participating under the FAO/World
Bank cooperation program) and by the World Bank focused on consultations with all potential
participants in the design and implementation of the project. To this end, working sessions were held
at ORMVA headquarters, agricultural operations, professional organizations, agro-industrial units,
training and research institutions, central offices and other ministerial bodies and departments.

The purpose of this support was to establish coherent and rational programs, taking into account
government guidelines on the development of irrigated agriculture, and incorporating the experience


                                                     - 40 -

gained by the various consultants who participated in successive missions over a three-year period. In
this respect, although performed rapidly, the diagnoses carried out by the consultants when the
IAASP was in preparation are still a useful reference for designing the agricultural development
activities implemented by the ORMVAs. The IAASP, and particularly the approaches developed
under it, also constituted the core of the agricultural development strategies developed by the
ORMVAs in 1996.

The documents consolidating the intervention of the World Bank are the initial appraisal report, the
implementation volumes and the cost tables.

An analysis of these documents and their application during project execution prompt the following
observations:

- The consultants made great efforts to synthesize in order to incorporate the broad and diverse
suggestions made by the ORMVAs and the central offices.
- The anomalies noted in Chapter 1 concerning the evaluation of the design of the components may
be attributed to the fact that coordination was relatively poor at the time each component was
organized.

In this regard, it should be borne in mind that all the ORMVAs adopted nearly identical programs,
creating the impression that the consultants acted out of a concern for simplification.

The loan negotiations took place in Washington from November 8-12, 1993.

In the course of these negotiations, the World Bank--which had expressed its concern regarding the
coherence of the project following the cutbacks the Moroccan Government had decided upon after
the initial appraisal--spared no efforts to respond favorably to the suggestions of the Moroccan
delegation. In addition, the Bank agreed that any decision to be made in the course of project
execution would be the result of prior consultation with Morocco.

However, the World Bank has maintained a restrictive provision in the loan agreement that requires
the use of international bidding for all purchases of vehicles or computer, audio-visual and laboratory
equipment, regardless of the amount of the purchase.

This provision is not consistent with the size of the project and with the nature of the often small
expenditures provided for therein.

4-2- During Project Execution:

The World Bank's project supervision plan was sound and was consistently carried out in accordance
with mutually agreed upon dates and personnel.

This supervision is one of the strong points of the project because the consultation missions
(generally held every six months) always provided an opportunity for providing information and
sharing experience both among the ORMVAs and among the ORMVAs, the central offices and the



                                                   - 41 -

World Bank.

Moreover, the project went through a very unstable phase in 1995 and 1996 due to the limited funds
that were set aside for it in the draft budgets. It was able to continue only as a result of the
redirections and revisions decided upon during the consultation missions.

Thus, the World Bank provided decisive support for starting up the studies, adaptive research and
farmers' organizations components, as well as for the purchase of basic work materials.

The World Bank also made a significant contribution to improving the working methods of the
ORMVAs' agricultural services by insisting that actions be planned on the basis of the real needs of
farmers and on the impact of each action on the ultimate profitability of agricultural operations.

The World Bank carefully monitored financial operations and disbursements throughout project
execution, despite the difficulties inherent in the numerous changes made to the initial physical and
financial programs, the nature of expenditures dominated by small amounts, anomalies found in the
costab, and the failure to update the costab when each of the three cutbacks were made in the project
amount.

This monitoring was decisive in determining the adjustments to be made, particularly with respect to
revising the loan amount and standardizing disbursement operations.

Three World Bank task managers were replaced in the course of IAASP implementation. Despite
some slight hesitation that accompanied the first change, this proved beneficial because the project
benefited from the new experience introduced as execution proceeded.

5-Measures to Ensure the Sustainability of Activities Conducted
during the Project

The completion of the IAASP coincides with MADREF's adoption of the agricultural and rural
development strategy that takes drought into account as a structural given and bases the expectations
of public authorities on the development of        agriculture in irrigated areas so as to effectively
contribute to meeting the country's food needs. This constitutes an insurance policy ensuring the
continuity of the activities undertaken under the IAASP, given that these activities are ongoing.

The desire to consolidate the experience gained during the IAASP is reflected in the physical and
financial programs implemented by the ORMVAs in FY 2001, an analysis of which prompts the
following observations:

- Financing levels for agricultural development actions have not been notably reduced.
- With the exception of contractual adaptive research, the ORMVAs have renewed all components
of the IAASP.
- The approaches and working methods introduced by the IAASP have been retained.

Moreover, information networks will be set up for the principal project components (agricultural


                                                   - 42 -

extension, adaptive research, women's development, training, phytosanitary protection and the
OTE).

The objective of these networks will be to:

- Consolidate the experience gained during the IAASP;
- Strengthen consultation among the ORMVAs and between the ORMVAs and the central offices;
- Share experience and ensure economies of scale; and
- Analyze achievements and suggest improvements to be made.

Nonetheless, some uncertainties should be mentioned so that particular attention can be devoted to
them in any discussions concerning agricultural development at the ORMVA level:

- Due to retirements, restrictions on hiring new staff would severely affect the training levels and
rate of training for farmers.
- The financial resources set aside for agricultural development are likely to prove inadequate at the
ORMVA level if the expansion of irrigated areas is not accompanied by commensurate increases in
such resources.
- The continuity of certain activities--such as contractual adaptive research, support for innovative
OPs, the technical and economic observatory and income-producing projects for rural women--will
remain contingent upon the willingness to set aside the funds needed to carry them out.
- The success of all the efforts undertaken to energize the women's development component will
continue to hinge on lifting the restrictions on the hiring of young female community development
workers and the allocation of sufficient material resources (particularly vehicles) to carry out the
action programs.

6- Lessons Learned from the Implementation of the IAASP

6-1- Principal Accomplishments of the IAASP

- The demonstration of the essential role of training for farmers as the principal tool for developing
agricultural potential and improving hydro-agricultural equipment.
- The strengthening of consultation among ORMVAs and between the ORMVAs and the central
offices. This is reflected in the intensive sharing of experience and enhanced adaptation of agricultural
development programs to the directions and priorities established at the national level.
- The intervention of the ORMVAs is characterized by a clearer vision of agricultural development
objectives, better planning of actions in space and time and greater assumption of responsibility by
trainers.
- The liberalization of crop rotation just before the project was launched imposed a series of
changes in the identification of priorities for intervention by the ORMVAs' agricultural services. In
this regard, the IAASP helped the ORMVAs ensure the transition between a period of top-down
programs (from headquarters to the field) to a new period when actions are the result of consultation
with the farmers.
- The IAASP constituted the core of the agricultural development strategies developed by the
ORMVAs in early 1996.


                                                     - 43 -

- An opportunity for consultation developed between the ORMVAs and research and training
institutions to identify the real problems hindering agricultural development in irrigated areas. This
has resulted in the transfer to farmers of substantial knowledge gleaned from national research and
has improved the technical level of ORMVA staff, who have benefited from an extensive training
program.
- The beginnings of a new dynamic in the area of integrating rural women in agricultural
development activities.
- The development of a partnership with farmers through the promotion of farmers' organizations.
- The project components contributed directly and indirectly to the growth of farmers' incomes, an
overall project indicator.

6-2- Weaknesses of the IAASP

- The idea of a funded project almost evaporated because the IAASP was subject to reductions in
budgetary allocations and to various restrictions imposed on state budgets.
- Instead of representing a supplement to the customary programs of the ORMVAs, the project
ended up replacing chapter VIII of their budget, which used to support agricultural development
actions.
- The adoption of nearly standard programs for all the ORMVAs has had a negative effect on speed
and efficiency in carrying out these programs.
- The belated performance of the studies has made it impossible to take their results into account
when redirecting the planning of some components as provided for in the initial project arrangements.
- The evaluation of the impact of the actions undertaken under the IAASP has suffered from the
lack of an efficient monitoring and evaluation system.

6-3- Lessons for the Future

- It is essential to maintain the coherence of the project's components and the timetable for carrying
out the actions planned at all times and under all conditions. This necessarily entails the
comprehensive application of physical and financial programs as well as accompanying measures
negotiated with donors.
- It would be more judicious to select projects tailored to each ORMVA. This approach will make
it possible to incorporate the notions of territoriality and areas of excellence and to adapt the speed
with which components are carried out based on the progress achieved by each ORMVA.
- The time frame for implementing a IAASP-type project should be longer so that its impact can be
evaluated. Changes involving the human factor (staff and farmers) and the profitability of agricultural
operations cannot be rapidly attributed to single actions undertaken in the context of the project.
- Studies and diagnoses should be carried out in a preliminary two-year phase so that action plans
and financing levels can be based on the results of these studies.
- Efforts should be made to promote complementarity and synergy of execution with other projects
implemented at the same time within each ORMVA.




                                                     - 44 -

APPENDICES




    - 45 -

   APPENDIX 1: PRINCIPAL DATES REGARDING THE IAASP




- Identification: 1991

- Preparation and pre-appraisal: 1992

- Appraisal: 1993

- Negotiation: November 8-12, 1993

- Submission to the World Bank Board of Governors: December 1993

- Start-up: April 1994

- Loan signature: February 6, 1995

- Loan effectiveness: May 4, 1995

- Project completion: December 31, 2000

- Loan closure: June 30, 2001




                                 - 46 -

       APPENDIX 2: BUDGETARY CREDITS ALLOCATION


                                          DH
      Period      Projected    Actual    %

1994            19,752,200  14,060,827   71

1995            65,946,700  20,699,935   31

1st half 1996   46,441,050  15,957,284   34

96/97           85,676,250  44,443,592   52

97/98           67,082,900  46,835,156   70

98/99           46,390,000  43,585,698   94

99/2000         56,507,700  37,934,380   67

2nd half 2000   21,440,000  17,658,376   82%




                                - 47 -

             APPENDIX 3: Cutbacks in amount of IAASP



                                                     (In DH 1,000)
COMPONENTS             INITIAL AMOUNT    FINAL AMOUNT   Variation

Extension              131,605          99,551          - 24 %

Women's development    13,367           6,409           - 62 %

Farmers' organizations 49,159           19,895          - 60 %

Crop production        72,827           53,392          - 27 %

Livestock              25,525           14,650          - 43 %

Observatory            11,737           3,356           - 71 %

Studies and central    8,526            9,762           + 14 %

Directoratess

TOTAL                  312,746          207,015         - 34 %




                                 - 48 -

- 49 -

