                                     Documentof
                                  The World Bank




                                                    ReportNo.: 32685


              PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT




                                     MOROCCO




      SECONDLARGE SCALE IRRIGATIONIMPROVEMENT PROJECT
                                 (LOAN3587-MOR)


                                        AND


         IRRIGATED AREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
                                 (LOAN 3688-MOR)




                                   June20,2005




Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation Group
OperationsEvaluation Department

CURRENCY       EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =Morocco Dhiram (OH)


1993             US$1   .oo        -       DH9 .O (appraisal)
2002             US$1   .oo        -       DH 10.1(completion)

ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
ASIL             Agricultural Sector Investment Loan
FLIIP            FirstLarge-scaleIrrigation Improvement Project
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
IAASP            Irrigated Area Agriculture Support Project
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
KfW              Kreditanstaltfur Wiederaufbau
L S I            Large-scale irrigation
MOA              Ministry of Agriculture and Agricultural Development
OED              Operations Evaluation Department(of the World Bank)
OP               Farmers' organizations (OrganisationsProfessionnelles)
ORMVA            Regional Authority for Agricultural Development
                 (Office Regional de Mise en Valeur Agricole)
PPAR             Project PerformanceAssessment Report
SLIIP            SecondLarge-scaleIrrigation Improvement Project
WUA              Water Users' Association
WUF              Water Users' Federation




FISCALYEAR
Government:               July 1 - June 30




Acting Director-General, Operations Evaluation           :  Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Acting Director,OperationsEvaluationDepartment           :  Mr.R.Kyle Peters
Manager, Sector, Thematic and GlobalEvaluation           :  Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                             :  Mr.GeorgeT. Keith Pitman

                                                               1


I   OED Mission: Enhancing developmenteffectivenessthrough excellence and independencein evaluation.                        1
  About this Report
        The Operations Evaluation Departmentassesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
  purposes: first, to ensure the integrityof the Banks self-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank'swork is
  producingthe expected results,and second, to help develop improveddirections,policies,and proceduresthrough
  the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience.As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
  the Bank's lending operations.Inselectingoperations for assessment, preferenceis given to those that are
  innovative, large, or complex;those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which
  Executive Directors or Bank management have requestedassessments;and those that are likely to generate
  important lessons. The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessment support largerevaluation
  studies.
       A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
  Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
  PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
  the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
  validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
  OED studies.
        Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
  PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
  sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
  Board of Executive Directors.After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


 About the OED Rating System
       The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
 The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
 sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
 the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
 http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
       Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
 current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
 goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
 Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
 account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
 opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
 Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
       Sustainabilify: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
 Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
       Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
 to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
 better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
 better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
 institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
 project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
 achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
 Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
      Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                    ...
                                                                    111



Contents

Principal Ratings and Key Staff Responsible                                ..................................................................    v
                                                                                                                                                 ..
Preface  ..............................................................................................................................         v11

Summary     ...........................................................................................................................         ix

1 Background
 .                     ..................................................................................................................        1

2 The Projects
 .                     ..................................................................................................................        3

        Objectives................................................................................................................. 3
        ImplementingArrangements ....................................................................................                            3
        Implementation........................................................................................................                   5

3 Evaluation
 .                  .....................................................................................................................        6

        Expected Benefits .....................................................................................................                  6

        Counterfactual .........................................................................................................                 7
        Monitoring and Evaluation......................................................................................                          7
        Outcome...................................................................................................

        Efficacy .............................................................................               ................................... 9
                   Second Large-scale Irrigation ImprovementProject ...................................                                          9
                   IrrigatedAreas Agricultural Services Project ............................................                                    15
        Efficiency ................................................................................................................             21
        Institutional Development Impact..........................................................................                              22
        Sustainability..........................................................................................................                23

        Bank Performance .................................................................................................                      23
        Borrower Performance ..........................................................................................                         24
4.  Findings and Lessons              .................................................................................................         25

        Findings .................................................................................................................              25
                  Lessons.......................................................................................................                26
Annex A: Basic Data Sheet                ..............................................................................................         29




This reportwas preparedby George T.KeithPitman. who assessedthe projectsinJune 2004. The report
was editedby William Hurlbut. and Soon-WonPak providedadministrativesupport.


                                                    V



 PrincipalRatingsand Key Staff Responsible

 SECOND LARGE       SCALEIRRIGATIONPROJECT(LOAN
                                            IMPROVEMENT                              3587 MOR)
                                                                                            -

                                 ICR*                      ICR Review*               PPAR

 Outcome                         Satisfactory              Moderately                Moderately
                                                           Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory
 Sustainability                  Likely                    Non-evaluable             Likely
 Institutional Development       Modest                    Modest                    Modest
 Impact
 Bank Performance               Satisfactory              Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory
 Borrower Performance           Satisfactory              Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory
 * The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
 the Bank. The ICR Review is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify the findings of
 the ICR.

 Project                       Task Manager                Division Chief/             Country
                                                           Sector Manager              Director
 Appraisal (1993)             Jean Pierre Villaret         Odin Knudsen                Mahmood Ayub
 Completion (2001)            Hassan Lamrani               Salah Darghouth             Christian Delvoie
                                                           Doris Koehn



IRRIGATED SERVICES PROJECT(LOAN
               AREASAGRICULTURAL                                             3688-MOR)

                                ICR*                      ICR Review*               PPAR
0utcome                         Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory            Moderately
                                                                                    Satisfactory
Sustainability                  Likely                    Unlikely                  Likely
Institutional Development       Modest                    Modest                    Modest
Impact
Bank Performance                Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance           Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
the Bank. The ICR Review is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify the findings of
the ICR.

Project                       Task Manager                Division Chief/             Country
                                                          Sector Manager              Director
Appraisal (1993)              J. Cole                     Odin Knudsen                Mahmood Ayub
Completion (2002)             Hassan Lamrani              Petros Aklilu               Christian Delvoie


                                             vii


Preface

        This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) prepared bythe
Operations Evaluation Department(OED) for Morocco SecondLarge Scale Irrigation
ImprovementProject (SLIIP) and the Irrigated Areas Agricultural Services Project.
(IAAS).The SLIIP project was approved inMarch 1993for a loanofUS$215 million.
Kreditanstalt fiir Wiederaufbau providedindependent parallelfinancing of US$ 14.6
million as did the Caisse franqais de developpement for US$ 8.4 million. At closing on
schedule inDecember 2000, total project costs were US$199.8 million compared with the
appraisal estimate o f US$367.3 million, andUS$107.2million o fthe loanhadbeen
cancelled. The IAAS project was approved inNovember 1993 for a loan of US$25 million.
At completionone year behindschedule inJune 2001, total costs were US$21.7 million
compared with the appraisal estimate of US$34.7 million, and US$9.9 million hadbeen
cancelled.

       This report is basedon the ImplementationCompletionReports (ICRs) prepared
by the MiddleEast and NorthAfrica Region(Report No. 23264 dated December 2001
and Report No. 22454 dated June 2001), the Memorandumand Recommendation of the
President, StaffAppraisal Reports, loan documents, project files, and discussions with
Bank staff. An OED missionvisited Morocco inJune-July 2004 and met stakeholders to
discuss the effectiveness of the Bank's assistance with development and financing
partners, project implementing agencies, private sector agencies, and beneficiaries. The
cooperation and assistance of central government and regional officials and staff,
nongovernmental stakeholders, and other interestedparties are gratefully acknowledged.

       These projects were selected for performance assessmentbecause of
disagreements with the MENA region about ratings and also to support an OED
evaluationo fthe Bank's investmentsinagricultural water management scheduled for
June 2005. Findingswill inform the 2005-06 Country Assistance Strategy under
preparation.

       Following standard OED procedures, the draft of this PPAR was sent to the
borrower for comments before finalization, but none were received.


                                               ix


  Summary

          The Morocco SecondLarge-scale Irrigation ImprovementProjectandthe
 IrrigatedAreas Agricultural Support Project were approved in 1993. Bothprojects aimed
 to develop the technical and institutional capacity of the nine Regional Authorities for
 Agricultural Development (ORMVAs: Offices Regionaux de Mise en Valeur Agricole) to
 contribute to increasing agricultural productivity inthe large-scale irrigation subsector
 that accounts for 485,000 hectares- almost half- of Morocco's irrigation area.

         The major objectives ofthe ImprovementProject were to raise the efficiency of
 water distribution and use through rehabilitation o f infrastructure, improved operation,
 and on-farm investment; to preserve public investmentsthrough appropriate replacement
 and maintenance; and to increase recovery o f operation and maintenance (O&M) costs
 from beneficiaries through better management by the ORMVAs, thus reducing the need
 for the government's budgetary support. The Support Project's principal objectives were
 to raise agricultural production and farmers' income inthe irrigatedareas with special
 efforts to reach women, improve the organizational and operating efficiency o f the
 ORMVAs' agricultural research activities and extension services, and promote farmer
 organizations to take an increasing share of development responsibilities.

         The lack ofprogress on institutionalreforms andthe government's ownbudget
 problems resultedin steady contractionof the loans and budgets for both projects. This
 created significant managerial problems for the ORMVAs and underminedefficient long-
 term planningto achieve project objectives.

         Because the projects' objectives were not reduced, none was fully achieved and
 shortcomings were numerous. Policy and managerial reforms were only partially
implementedbecause of unresolved difficulties inthe legal and regulatory environment
of ORMVAs and other government stakeholders, andtheir lukewarm acceptance of the
need for reform. One notable achievement was a markedimprovement inthe ORMVAs'
management information systems, which now facilitate attribution o f all costs. While the
bulk ofthe Improvement Project's investmentwas usedto enhance the efficiency of
water distribution through rehabilitation and improved O&M, the absence o f adequate
monitoringand evaluation precludes assessment o f impact. On-farm water-use efficiency
improved only locally at a much smaller scale and with fewer innovations than planned.
Overall maintenance expendituresper hectare declined by almost a thirdbetween 1995
and 2000 because falling revenue from water billings are usedto cross-subsidize the
ORMVA's agricultural extension activities. Farmers' willingness to pay declined because
the quality ofwater service fell and ability to pay was underminedby low value irrigated
crops encouraged by agricultural subsidies.Eventhough government has had to increase
its budgetary support for large-scale irrigation- contrary to project objectives - the norms
for O&M are not met.

        Agricultural production and farmer incomes increased, but this i s not clearly
attributable to the Support Project. Outreach to women led to the formation o f several
cooperatives and producer organizations but was dropped for budgetary reasons on
project closure. Agricultural services were partially reorganized and the volume of

                                                X



services increased, but it i s not clear to what extent farmers adopted new technologies
due to lack o f monitoring and evaluation. While the number o f farmers' organization rose
significantly, their effectiveness is unknown. Training and contracting agricultural
research to universities were the only notably successful components.

        OEDrates the outcome o fthe Improvement Project as moderately unsatisfactory
and the outcome o f the Support Project as moderately satisfactory. Institutional
development i s rated as modest for both projects because there was minimal handover o f
agricultural and water services to farmers' organizations, cost recovery deteriorated, and
the ORMVAs' dependence on government budgetsupport increased. Overall Bank and
borrower performance i s rated as unsatisfactory. Project objectives were unrealistic
because continued agricultural subsidies inparallel with the project provided no incentive
for farmers to reduce agricultural water consumption and increase water use
efficiency.During implementation attention to monitoring and evaluation was poor and
negligible progress on managerial and institutional reform was condoned.

    Experience with this project confirms a number o f OED lessons:

    0   Water conservation has to be approached holistically and incentives to increase
       water use efficiency needto be harmonized at the macro- and micro-level. In
       Morocco, failure to remove agricultural subsidies and raise agricultural water
       charges encouraged farmers to take the l o w risk path o f usinghighvalue (but low
       cost) water for l o w value crops. And low water prices and returns discouraged
       farmers' investment in on-farm water conservation improvements.
    0  Secure water rights and predictable water supplies provide incentives for farmers
       to invest inhigh-tech irrigation and bring about significant water savings. Profits
       from highvalue irrigated crops will enable payment o f the higher water charges
       needed to efficiently operate and maintain the publicly-ownedupstream water
       delivery system.
       Service providers should have full autonomy to set and retain water users' fees to
       guarantee water delivery through adequate operation and maintenance. Financial
       management and accounting o f different services - inthis case water and
       agricultural extension - should be clearly separated to avoid hidden cross-
       subsidies and allow clear demarcation o f costs.
   0   Cost-recovery from users o f irrigation and agricultural services will be difficult if
       beneficiaries are not involved indesigning service packages and cost-recovery
       mechanisms, and project sponsors do not consider the incentive framework for
       farmers to participate. Equally important, water users will not pay ifthey receive
       no obvious and tangible benefits and do not have secure water rights.
   0   Adequate monitoring and evaluation and specialist inputs are essential to
       determining project achievements and the impact o f the Bank's interventions.




                                                                       Ajay Chhibber
                                                                  Acting Director-General
                                                                   Operations Evaluation

                                                        1


  1.       Background

  1,       Morocco i s a lower middle-income country with a GDP per capita o f
  US$1,250 and a population of 30.5 milliongrowing at 1.8 percent annually. Since
  1991the rate of growth of GDP fell by more than half, averaging only 1.9 percent
  duringthe 1990s, and per capita incomes stagnated causing the country to lagbehind
  others inthe MENA Region.

 2.        Agriculture contributes about 12-17percent of GDP depending on rainfall,
  employs about half of the work force and 60 percent of the female labor force, and i s
 a major component of the economy. Only about 14percent (1.2 millionhectares) o f
 the 8.4 millionhectares of arable land i s irrigated which makes agricultural
 production highly vulnerable to drought. Even so, public investmentinirrigationhas
 beensubstantial, typically accounting for almost half of all agricultural sector
 expendituresor six to eightpercent of national investment, untilwell into the 1990s.
 During this period irrigated land contributed 45 percent o f agricultural value added
 and produced 75 percent of agricultural exports.

 3.        Significant agricultural growth, 0.8 percent per year, over the period 1986-91,
 faltered inthe 1990swhen growth declined to an average o f -0.3 percent. Principal
 causes of poor sector performance were more frequent and recurrent drought, an
 incentive structure favoring import substitution of lower value cereals, and slow
 growth and diversification inexport markets.' However, inthe early 2000s more
 reliable rainfall allowed agriculture to recover and the 2003 harvest was one o fthe
 strongest on record, leading to government projections of a seven percent growth in
 the sector.

 4.       Morocco's irrigation sector is split among public sector capital-intensive
 large-scale irrigation (LSI) schemes covering 485,000 hectares that are operated by
 nineRegionalAuthorities for Agricultural Development(ORMVAs: Office Regional
 de Mise en Valeur Agricole), traditional small andmedium-scale irrigationcovering
400,000 hectares owned and operated by local communities, and about 100,000
hectares privately development. The projects under assessment are part of the L S I
subsector. Most private sector and about 80 percent of the ORMVA-operated L S I
areas support use of modern irrigation, while the remaining L S I area supports


 1. The Economist Intelligence Unit (2005) reports that "The doubling o f the frequency o f severe
droughts to one year intwo inthe 1990s prompted a national debate over agriculture. Untilrecently the
government continued to believe that its plans to increasethe amount of water available for irrigation,
introduce more efficient irrigation techniques and develop new farming methods would allow
production of 6m tonnes of cereals each year, secure the rural economy and cut food imports. Yet low
cereal yields are also related to other structural problems, such as the limited use o f selectedseeds (in
the 2002/03 season usage actually fell by 20 percent to 488,000 tonnes), fertiliser and mechanical
equipment, as well as the fragmentation o f holdings-85     percent of farms are under 10 hectare and 49
percent under 3 ha. A measureof the inefficiency of cereal farming i s that the government's
guaranteedprice for cereals is roughly twice the world price and that the authorities raised wheat
import tariffs to 135 percent in order to protect cereal farmers. According to World Bank figures, the
value-added per farmer in Morocco fell from some US$1,700 in 1989to US$1,650 in 1999; over the
same period the value-added per farmer in Tunisia has risen from US$2,200 to US$3,000."

                                                  2


  improved traditional irrigation inthe southern oasis. Inthe early 1990s about 36
 percent o f the L S I areas were plantedwith cereals, 20 percent with industrial crops
 (sugar beet, sugarcane, cotton, and oilseeds), 24 percent with vegetables and forage
 crops, 14 percent with citrus and olive trees, and 6 percent with food legumes.
 Typically, farms inL S I are small and privately owned and more than four-fifths of
 the farmers inL S I areas cultivate less than 5 hectares.Crop yields were below
 potentialbecause o f outdated farming techniques, climatic hazards, and unfavorable
 incentives to invest and produce, including issues o f landtenure and sub-economic
 land holdings.

 5.       The Bank has lent Morocco over US$6.1 billion for 105 loans and credits
 since 1965 and 30 o f these, totaling US$l.8 billion, have been to the agricultural
 sector. Untilthe mid-1980s the majority of agricultural investmentswere directed at
 buildingnewirrigationinfrastructure, supporting agricultural credit, improving
 rainfed agriculture and boosting crop productivity through better extension and
 marketing. Inresponse to a worsening macro-economic situation, the government
 began a Medium-TermAgricultural Sector Adjustment Program (1986) that was
 supported by two agricultural adjustment loans (US$325 million) and an agricultural
 sector investmentloan (US$50 million).

 6.       The primary objective o f ASIL I(1992-94) was to finance part of the
 Moroccan government's total investmentprogram inagriculture, estimated at
US$640 million, and to continue to advance key sector policy reforms, notably inthe
 livestock and irrigation subsectors. Almost a third of the loan was earmarked for
grants to farmers to promote improved farming techniques. OED's ex-post
assessment o f ASIL Irated its outcome as unsatisfactory because it had little impact
on consolidating trade liberalizationor improving the capacity and efficiency o f the
Ministry ofAgriculture.2Evenso, veterinary services were successfully privatized
and independent veterinarians now contract with the state for provision o f
prophylactic services. A second ASIL (1994-97) was implementedinparallel with the
projects being assessed.

7.       The First Large-scale IrrigationImprovement Project (FLIIP), covering
150,000 hectares and approved in 1987, aimed at making the L S I sector more
efficient, cost effective, and sustainable. Key issues it addressedinaddition to
rehabilitation and performance improvement were: withdrawal o f the public sector
and the ORMVAs from commercial a~tivities,~introduction o f water user
associations (WUAs), improving cost recovery, fostering growth of professional
associations and farmer cooperatives to stimulate crop production and marketing, and
improving the ORMVA' s capability for operation and maintenance (O&M).

8.       The FLIIP demonstrated that the institutionalweaknesses ofthe ORMVAs
were deeper and more widespread than anticipated, farmers' participationwas less


2. OED. 1999.PerformanceAudit Report.Kingdomo f Morocco: Agricultural Sector AdjustmentLoan
(Loan3403-MOR). Report No. 19529.June 21, 1999.
3. Formerly,public sector agencies were involvedinmechanizedcultivation, input supply and
veterinary services, and state-ownedfirms heldprocessingmonopolies for sugar and cotton.

                                              3


  than expected, and that project interventions had to be more carefully tailored to the
  individual and differing needs of each ORMVA. More importantly, FLIIP had had
  little impact on the use of heavy budget subsidies to compensate insufficient recovery
  o f water charges and excessive involvement o f ORMVAs innon-remunerative
  commercial activities. It became clear that irrigationand agricultural service costs
  neededto be clearly identifiedand separated, and that reforms to agricultural
  extension would be more effective iffarmers' managerial capacity was also
  improved. To allow greater attention to these issues the follow-on second large-scale
 irrigation improvement project separatedthe agricultural services and capacity-
 buildingcomponents into a free-standing project to be implementedinparallel. The
  Second Large-scale IrrigationImprovementProject was approved inMarch 1993 and
 the Irrigated Area Agricultural Services Project eight months later. The IAASP
 overlapped the Bank's Agricultural Research and ExtensionProject (1990-97) that
 focused on improvingnational research and extension institutions.



 2.       The Projects

 OBJECTIVES

 9.       The goal ofthe SLIIP was to enhancethe sustainability of large-scale
 irrigation through completion o f irrigation systemrehabilitationand restructuring o f
 the ORMVAs begun underFLIIP. Itsprimary objective was to make large-scale
 irrigation more efficient, cost-effective, and sustainable inall nine ORMVAs
 covering an aggregate area of about 200,000 hectare^.^ Objectives are related to
 components and costs inTable 1. Agricultural development aspects were supported
through the IrrigatedAreas Agricultural Support Project (IAASP) that focused on
raising agricultural productionand farmers' income inthe irrigatedareas with special
efforts to reach women, improvingthe organizationand operating efficiency of the
ORMVAs and farmers' organizations, and upgrading extension and research (Table
 1). A second ASIL (1994-98 for US$121million) was implementedinparallel with
the two assessedprojects, Inaddition to trade liberalizationand support for reform in
the center, ASIL I1complemented IAASPthrough provision of incentives to reform
the livestock subsector, veterinary and extension services, andto expand WUAs in
small-scale irrigationprojects. Several of its policy reforms also supported
achievement o f SLIIP objectives, specifically on environment and agricultural
infrastructure planning.

IMPLEMENTING      ARRANGEMENTS

10.       Bothprojects were implementedby the Ministry o f Agriculture (MOA)
through the semi-autonomous ORMVAs and coordination was allocated to different
departments within the ministry. The Directorate o f Rural Equipmentthrough its sub-
department -the Service for LSIImprovement -was charged with project

4. The ORMVAs were: Doukkala, Gharb, Haoz, Moulaya, Ouarzazate, Souss-Masa, Tadla, and
Tafilalet

                                                               4


  Table 1:Project Objectives,Components,and Costs
                Objectives                                        Components                                 costs
  Second Lame-Scalelrrisation ImmovementProject
                                           InfrastructureRehabilitation. The ORMVAs to                   175.2   168.6
  0 Preserve public investment             reconstruct 52,000 hectares in 6 irrigation distribution
    through appropriate system             systems, rehabilitate diversion weirs and canals
    maintenance                            serving 21,000 hectares in 20 traditional flood irrigation
  0 Enhance the efficiency of water        schemes in the Sahel regions. Improve subsurface
    distribution through rehabilitation    drainage in 19,000 ha. Replace equipment in 58
    of irrigation facilities and improved  pumping stations and rehabilitate 1,060 km of feeder
    operation                              roads

                                           Institution Building and Policy Reforms. Provide              60.5    22.4
  0 Reduce budgetary costs of O&M          equipment, vehicles, buildings, TA and training to
    activities by increasing cost          improve management of irrigation schemes and enable
    recovery from beneficiaries and        the Directorate of Rural Equipmentto coordinate
    strengthen ORMVA management            project implementation and monitor ORMVA
    capabilities                           performance. Implement policy reforms to: restructure
  0 Ensure better environmental            water tariffs, increase water charges, and define
    protection by implementing             public-private water delivery contracts. Implement a
    monitoring plans for all large scale   long-term strategy and plan for systematic
    irrigation areas                       rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure, and restructure
                                           of the institutional framework for large-scale irrigation.

                                           On-farm Water Use Efficiency Improvements. Pilot
                                           demonstrations of improved irrigation techniques,             44.3     8.7
    Enhance efficiency Of water use
    by irrigators through improved         upgrading of water metering systems and rehabilitation

    techniques and appropriate on-         of on-farm irrigation systems on about 20,000 hectares

    farm investment                        on a 70:30 farmerlgovernment cost sharing basis.
                                           Promote formation of 400 water user associations as a
                                           vehicle for on-farm demonstrations and investments,
                                           and to participate in O&M of public infrastructure.
                                                                 Price and Physical contingencies        87.3
                                         Total Project Cost                                             367.3   199.7

_____      ______
 lrriaatedAreas Asricultural Services Project
 0 Raise aaricultural Droductionand
                                          Transfer of technology to and from farmers in the
         -   Y
   farmers' income with special
   efforts to reach women, who are        large-scale irrigation areas of the ORMVAs, including

    mainly responsible for livestock      the strengthening of adaptive research, agricultural
                                          extension, women's programs
                                                                  .  -
    management                                                                                           26.1    19.0

 0 Improve the organization and           Supporting services, including soils and plant analysis,




 0 Promote commodity and service-         Promotion of farmer organizations, with provision for          4.1      1.4
   oriented farmer organizations to       changes in the legal and regulatory framework,
   take an increasing share of            technical assistance, training and some initial
   development responsibilities           investments

 0 Involve the universityteaching and     Undertake studies of farm mechanization, farmer                4.5      1.3
   research staff in field extension      associations and product marketing
   and research.
                                                                 Price and Physical contingencies
                                                                                  Total Project Cost     34.7     21.7

                                             5


 coordinationo f the SLIIP, monitoring of ORMVA performance and preparing policy
 reforms. The Education, Research and Development Department coordinated the six
 central departments that assisted inthe implementation of IAASP. Interministerial
 coordinationfor both projects was carried out by the National Project Coordination
 Committee set upunder FLIIP. This committee met once a year under the
 chairmanship o fthe secretary-general o fthe MOA.A special national-levelProject
 Monitoring Committee was charged with systematic review o f the ORMVAs'
 financial performance and making recommendations to the national coordination
 committee. National-level monitoring of the environmental impact o f L S I was the
 responsibilityof the interministerial Committee on EnvironmentalProtection.

 11.     Each ORMVA was independently responsible for the planning and budgeting
 o fproject components implemented within their irrigation command areas (Table 1).
 For SLIIP this included infrastructure rehabilitation, improvement o f ORMVA
 management and on-farm water use efficiency, and monitoring environmental impact.
 All activities ofthe IAASP would be implementedby specialist unitswithinthe
 ORMVA, linked as appropriate to technical advice from the relevant MOA
 departments.

 12.     To ensure reform o f the ORMVAs' agricultural advisory services, the MOA
 piloted reorganization of four o f them (Doukkala, Gharb, Loukkos, and Tadla) in
 which a newDirector of Agriculture would manage a single department created from
 merging the crop production, livestock, and extension services. The regional
 development centers and livestock posts were consolidated into one agricultural
 development center and most technical staff were transferred from headquarters to
 sub-divisional level. It was expected that this reorganization o f agricultural services
 would be mainstreamed inall ORMVAs by completion of the project.

IMPLEMENTATION

 13.    Four years o f severe drought affected Morocco over the period 1994-200 1,
seriously depleting water supplies and reducing agriculturalproductivity.
Simultaneously, the difficult macroeconomic situation put serious constraints on the
availability of counterpart financing. And inthe irrigation subsector, the government
found itself financially over-committedbecause o f its substantial investment inthe
National Irrigation Program(to expand irrigatedarea by one million hectares), SLIIP,
and IAASP. Institutionally, the reform agenda for the subsector experienced
considerable problems due to weak ownership and reluctance to change the status
quo. Inthe first three years o f the SLIIP only a third of the expected progress on
rehabilitationwas achieved, while there was almost no progress on institution
building, policy reform, training, and beneficiary participation. Inpart this reflected
uncertainty during a period marked by major political change. Followingthe approval
of a new constitution by popular vote in 1996 and elections to a bicameral parliament
inSeptember 1997,a newgovernment (formerly the opposition) came to power in
early 1998.Thereafter, there was greater realism about actions neededto restructure
the projects.

                                                   6


  14.      As a result ofthe lack ofprogress on institutional reform and government's
  declining budget allocation to the ORMVAs, the scope of bothprojects and loans was
  reduced -but only after the Bank proposed suspending SLIIP disbursement inlate
  1997. For similar reasons IAASP was classified as a problem project over the period
  1997-99. While the SLIIP was not formally revised, the project components were
  drastically downsized by 46 per~ent.~ greatest impact was on the budget for on-
                                             The
 farm water use efficiency improvements that was cut by 64 percent. Although the
 budget for IAASP was cut by over a thirdthrough four reductions of the loan, project
 objectives were not changed eventhoughthe remainingbudget was unevenly
 distributed.The women's programwas cut by 62 percent, promotionof farmer
 organizations by 60 percent, adaptive research and supporting services by 31percent
 and extension by 24 percent. The downsizing o f the projects created significant
 managerial problems for the ORMVAs as the declining government budget allocation
 precluded efficient long-term planningto achieve project objectives.



 3.       Evaluation

 EXPECTED     BENEFITS

 15.      The SLIIP was expected to directly raise incomes by at least 20 percent for
 32,400 farm families, half of whom owned less than 2 hectares. Agricultural
 intensificationwas expected to generate 5,000 person yeardyear o f on-farm
employment and the same level of temporary off-farm employment during
implementation.Beingbroader in scope, the IAASP was expected to directly benefit
all farm families (125,000) within the ORMVAs plus an additional 75,000 families in
adjacent rainfed areas. It was predicted also that adaptive research under IAASP
would benefit farmers in other small-scale and traditional irrigation schemes covering
some 800,000 hectares.

16.      Rehabilitationof the irrigationinfrastructure was expected to support
increased agricultural productivity and lower costs over an aggregate area o f 125,000
hectares. Specifically, it was expected that production o f wheat would increase by 8
percent, sugar beet by 11percent, and citrus by 20 percent. Increased forage
productionwas expected to translate into an incremental 11millionliters o f milk and
970 tons o f beef. Replacement o f pumpswas expected to lower surface delivery
irrigation costs by 12percent and sprinkler irrigation costs by 11percent. Improved
roads would leadto savings of 25 to 46 percent.

17.      Improved service delivery o f water at higher efficiencies, allied with increased
water charges and collection rates, was expected to increase irrigation cost-recovery


5. US$35 million of the SLIIP loan was cancelled in June 1996 and a hrther US$17 million inMay
1997. A further US$19 million was canceled in July 1998, US$16 million in February 2001 and
US$5.1 million was cancelled after closing. By completion, the Bank's loan had beenreduced from
US$215 to US$108 million. Similarly, parallel financing by KfW and AFD was reduced from UD$54
million to US$31 million.

                                                7


 by 40 percent. When offset against a projected 20 percent cost increase for O&M, this
 would allow the ORMVAs to increasingly contribute to financing asset depreciation -
 a major sector objective.

 COUNTERFACTUAL

  18.    Without the project it was projected that crop and livestock yields would not
 increase primarily due to water supply constraints and only moderately effective
 agricultural services constrained by insufficient funding. Continued poor maintenance
 o f canals was projected to reduce water availability by about one millioncubic meters
 a year leading to a loss o f irrigated area. Inturnthis would accelerate farmer
 migration to congested urban areas, increase waterlogging and salinization o f soils,
 and facilitate the spread o f waterborne diseases.

 MONITORINGEVALUATION
                 AND

 19.     Failure to implement effective monitoring and evaluation (M&E), essential to
 determine ifproject objectives were met, was a major failing o f both projects.
 General performance indicators were specified at appraisal and the IAASP even
 included a U S $ I.5 million monitoring and evaluation component. Attention to M&E
 was late and both projects failed to operationalize O&M systems that moved beyond
 inputs.Consequently, apart from generic management, budget and financial
 indicators that have been collected by the ORMVAs as part o f their routine
 management, there are no reliable data on project outputs or impacts. Inconsequence,
 impacts o f the projects on water use efficiency, agricultural productivity and
institutional development can only be inferred (insome cases) from more general
statistical information. Because o f the inadequate M&E systems and the presence o f
parallel investments affecting ORMVA water management and agricultural
productivity, it is also difficult to firmly attribute observed improvements inkey
indicators solely to the intervention o f these two Bank projects.


OUTCOME

20.     The outcomeof the IrrigatedArea Agricultural ServicesProject is rated
moderately satisfactory. The outcome of the Second Large-scaleIrrigation
Improvement Project is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.These ratings are
based on the relative importance o f their objectives and taking into account their
relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. The findings are summarized inTable 2 and
elaborated below. The poorer outcome for the SLIIP i s because quite good
performance on physical objectives was nullified by inattention to institutional
objectives and, at project closure, the level o f budget support was higher and cost-
recovery lower than at the start o f the project.

21,     Overall relevance of both projectswas high at appraisal and remains
high. The government's objectives for the irrigation subsector are to increase
foodgrain security through efficient production o f crops, to raise agricultural incomes
and employment through increased on-farm productivity, and to improve marketing.
More efficient water use i s essential giventhat irrigated agriculture consumes 85

                                                            8


           percent of the nation's water and water i s the most constrained agricultural input.
           Morocco i s defined as a "water-stressed'' country and future industrial growth and
           economic development ingeneral will generate much increased demand for other
           uses. The projects were highly relevant to the Bank's 1995 Water Sector Review (that
           was the basis for a seminar on water held inMorocco inlate 1995), and the adoption
           o f the 1996 Water Code. Bothprojects' promotion o f beneficiary participation
           resonates with the government's 2020 Rural Development Strategy that calls for
           greater involvement o f the people inplanning and executing rural development
           programs.

 Table 2: Ratings for Achievement of Project Objectives

                   Objectives                      Relative  Relevance    Efficacy     Efficiency   OUTCOME
                                                  Importance

 SecondLarge-scale Irrigation Imurovement Project

 1. Preserve public investment through
 appropriate system maintenance                       1         High       Modest       Modest      Moderately
                                                                                                   Unsatisfactory
 2. Enhance the efficiency of water distribution
 through rehabilitation of irrigation facilities      2         High      Substantial   Modest      Satisfactory
 and improved operation

 3 , Enhance efficiency of water use by
 irrigators through improved techniques and          3          High       Modest       Modest      Moderately
 appropriate on-farm investment                                                                    Unsatisfactory

 4. Reduce budgetary costs of O&M activities
by increasing cost recovery from beneficiaries       4         High       Negligible   Negligible  Unsatisfactory
 and strengthening ORMVA management
capabilities

5. Ensurebetter environmental protection by
implementing monitoring plans for all large          5        Modest      Negligible   Negligible  Unsatisfactory
scale irrigation areas
                                 Overall ratings               High        Modest       Modest      Moderately
                                                                                                   Unsatisfactory

Irrigated Areas A.wicultura1 Services Project

1. Raise agricultural production and farmers'
income with special efforts to reach women,          1      High         Modest       Substantial  Moderately
who are mainly responsible for livestock                                                           Satisfactory
management

2. Improve the organization and operating
efficiency of agricultural services within the
ORMVAs                                               2      High         Modest       Modest       Moderately
                                                                                                   Unsatisfactory
3. Promote commodity and service- oriented           3      High         Modest       Substantial  Moderately
farmer organizations to take an increasing                                                         Satisfactory
share of development responsibilities
4. Involve the university teaching and research      4      Substantial  Substantial  Substantial  Satisfactory
staff in field extension and research

                                 Overall ratings            High         Modest       Substantial  Moderately
                                                                                                   Satisfactory

                                                        9


 22.      The projects were relevant to the 1997 and 2001 CASs that, inter alia,
 emphasized reform o f public enterprises, increased cost-recovery and rationalization
 of their finances through reduction of subsidized services -objectives endorsed by
 OED's 1998 Country Assistance Review and its 2001 Country Assistance Evaluation.
 The projects' emphasis on removing government from agricultural activities that
 could be carried out by the private sector, farmers' and professional organizations
 was and i s highly relevant to reducing subsidiesto agriculture. Building more
 efficient service-provider organizations and improving cost-recovery from farmers
 (for the ORMVAs' irrigation and animal husbandry services) were and are essential
 for the financial sustainability of the irrigationsubsector.

 EFFICACY

 Second Large-scale Irrigation Improvement Project
 23,      Overall efficacy is rated modest taking into account the relative importance of
 the objectives and their level of achievement.

 ObjectiveI:Thepreservation ofpublicinvestmentthroughappropriatesystem
 maintenance was onlypartially achieved-and thesystem continuesto
 deteriorate

 24.     Although the
 maintenance skills o f all                 Figure 1: Expenditures on O&M for large-scale

 ORMVA staff were                           irrigation continue to decline

 considerably enhanced by the
 project, full utilization o f these
 skills was hinderedby
 consistently declining budget
 allocations for O&M of large-
 scale irrigationfacilities, Figure
 1. At appraisal, it was estimated
that the average annual O&M                        0 4                                                     I

expenditures (excluding                            1995    1996/97  1997/98 1998/99    1999/00  2000     2001


amortization) for all ORMVAs over the period 1994-99 should be 608 DH/ha. A re-
estimate in2004 was 602 DH/hae6Thus, expenditures met about 90 percent o f needs
at the start o f the project but less than a third after 2000. The situation i s even worse if
replacement investmenti s addedto the O&M costs. Thus, maintenance cannot keep
pace with needs and irrigation infrastructure continues to deteriorate.

25.      The primary reason for the shortfall inO&M budgets is that water-user fees
are generally too low, and the income from them goes into the general funding of all
ORMVA activities. Recovery of billings i s also low - a problem exacerbated by
users' reaction to water shortages or irregular supplies resulting from deteriorating
infrastructure and the series of droughts inthe late 1990s.While overall O&M


6. World Bank. 2004. Kingdom o f Morocco: Institutional Reform and the Large Scale Irrigation Sector -Findings
and Recommendations o f the Working Group. April 4, 2004.

                                                      10


  expenditure i s inadequate, there are marked variations inperformance among the
  ORMVAs. In 1999/2000Tadla expenditures exceeded the O&M norms and
  Moulouya achieved 90 percent. But Gharb, Doukkala, and Souss-Massa met less than
  half.

  Objective2:Enhancedefficiencyo f water distributionthroughrehabilitationof
  irrigationfacilitiesandimproved operation was achievedin targetedareas.

  26.      The ORMVAs preferentially invested incivil works, spending 96 percent o f
  the initial budgetedamount and, because o fthe overall reductioninthe budget for the
  project, this was at the expense o f investments to improve water use efficiency and
  institution building.Water distribution systems and associated electro-mechanical
  equipment were reconstructed and rehabilitated over a net area o f 37,000 hectares, or
  70 percent o f appraisal targets infour ORMVAs. Because system deterioration was
  greater than anticipated, unit costs were 37 percent higher than planned.' Even so, the
 impact o f the project's full or partial rehabilitation on water conveyance efficiency
 cannot be accurately determined because water metering equipment was not included
 inthe loan. Fieldinspectionanddiscussion withproject beneficiaries by OEDwithin
 the rehabilitated zones, and the beneficiary surveys undertaken at project completion
 in2001, indicatedthat there hadbeenlocalized water distribution efficiency gains -
 butno systematic accounting o fthem is availablea8The most discernable efficiency
 improvements were inthe Dra'a valley inOuarzazate where the dam was improved
 and six existing weirs rehabilitated - overall water use efficiency rose from 50 to
 about 65 percent. Elsewhere, much o f the rehabilitation was within larger systems.
 While water use efficiency at Loukkos is good, radical redesignis needed to reduce
 operating costs.

 27.       Indirect measures o f overall operational efficiency for three large-scale
 irrigation systems (Gharb, Tadla and Doukkala) show that the level o f water losses
 prior to sale increased modestly throughout the project (Figure 2.)

 28.       Rehabilitation only addressed the most serious rehabilitation needs on less
 than a third o f the total area o f the targeted ORMVAs. Meanwhile the effects o f
 continued deterioration inthe non-project areas outpaced improvements brought
 about by the project." The marked reduction o f water losses after closure o f SLIIP in




7. Most o fthe rehabilitation effort was directed at four ORMVAs: 5,013 ha (6%) o f 85,000 hectares in
Gharb; 9,098 hectares (15%) o f 61,000 hectares in Doukkala, 15,218 hectares (23%) o f 67,300 in
Moulouya; and 7,400 hectares (8%) o f 97,000 hectares in Tadla. Planned costs were US$3,362/ha;
actual costs were US$4,593/ha.
8. ICRAnnex8.1 pp41-51.
9. The 16,000 hectares irrigation system at Loukkos received US$4,000/hectare budget transfers over
the period 1980-99 to cover highenergy costs.

10. Repairs to main canals and structures improved water conveyance to about 29 percent o f the total
irrigated area inthese ORMVAs while rehabilitation below the main canals benefited 12 percent o f the
area o f the ORMVAs.

                                                                     11


 2001can be attributed to new investmentthat continued upgrading, rehabilitation,
 and sector reform (totaling about US$500 million)."

 29.      Therewere efficiency gains inenergy use throughimprovements to 74
 pumpingstations, and this generally exceededappraisal expectations. The overall
 impact was positive as 76 percent o f the project area (128,000 hectares) benefited.
 Table 3 shows the results from four ORMVAs that have comparable data. Results
 from Gharb (using different data) also show improvement. Overall, average pumping
 costs dropped from 0.33 DH/cubic meter to 0.19 DH/cubic meter over the period
 1995-2000.

 Figure 2: Water distribution efficiency declined during the project


                   1 0 0 %
                                            + P e r f o r m a n c e     d u r i n g B a n k
                    9 0 $  ....................................................................
                                                   P r o j e c t




                    6 0 % ......................................................................




 Source: Dataprovidedby the ORMVAs, 2004.

 Table 3: More efficient energy use was achieved.

                                  Pumping use efficiency by ORMVA (kwhll000m3/totalhead)
 YeariArea         Souss Amont               Souss Massa                    Moulouya             Doukkala   Tadla
Area, ha                             42,100                                   20,900              32,500    1,000
 1993-94                   6.9                        4.6                         5.2               2.0      4.1
2003                       5.0                        3.7                        4.4                3.6      4.4
Gain in                   +27%                     +I   9%                     +I  5%             - 20%      -7%
efficiency

Source: Dataprovidedby the individual ORMVAs, 2004.


Objective3:Enhanced water use efficiencybyirrigatorsthroughimproved
techniquesand appropriateon-farminvestment waspartialJyachieved.

30.     The primary reasonwas that the budget for on-farm investmentwas only 16
percent ofthe amount planned. Because o fthis shortfall, pilot demonstrations of
improved surface and drip irrigationpilot projects, their replicationby farmers (fostered

  ~           ~         ~~           ~




11. These investmentsincludean EUwater sector loan2001-04o f Euro 120million; an EIB loan o f
U S $45 millionand a grant o f US$40 million; and an African Development Bank loan o f US$250
million(2004-06).

                                                   12


 by a 30 percent government subsidy) and assistance to water user associationsto
 promote higher-technology irrigationwere all cancelled.Additionally, becauseunit
 costs were underestimated, less thanathird (2,962) of the plannednumber of 9,500
 farmhydrantswere installed.l2Evenso, this substantially improvedpressurizedwater
 supplies for sprinkler systems over alarger area (37,000 hectares)than originally
 planned(35,000 hectares). Farmersare enthusiastic aboutthe benefits ofthe new
 hydrantsthat maintain water pressure and continuity, reduce water losses, and enable
 accurate metering of usage. With an assuredwater supply farmers are able to practice
 demand-drivenwater rotations more effectively. However, whenwater suppliesare
 limited, water allocations are determinedadministratively bythe ORMVAs.

 3 1.     Although the Bank-financed drip irrigationwas cancelled, other development
 agencies successfully supported pilot projects inparallel and the adoption rate in
 public irrigation systems i s expanding - albeit slowly.l3Since July 2002, the Ministry
 o f Agriculture has promoted a five-year program to increase the area under drip
 irrigation inpublic irrigation schemes to 100,000 hectares-by December 2003 about
 8,000 hectares had been equipped. While most leaders o f water user associations
 interviewed see the advantages hightechnology irrigation brings, they identified the
major constraints as (a) lack o f farmers' financial resources to match government
 subsidies due to small landholdings and access to credit, (b) difficulty o f adoption
becauseo f the high levels o f illiteracy among older farmers, (c) the fact that farmers'
sons want to move out o f farming or to more profitable areas (cities or work inItaly
or Spain), and (d) the mixture o f landtenure arrangements that may preclude a
collective approach.14

 Objective 4: Monitoringplans for alllarge-scale irrigation areas to ensure better
environmentalprotection were onlypartially implemented withmajor
shortcomings.

32.       ORMVA staff are aware of the importance o f better environmental protection
andeach ORMVA established Environmental MonitoringAction Plans. Reduced
conveyance losses and higher water use efficiency should have markedly reducedthe
environmental impact o f large-scale irrigation. However, because continued system
deterioration marginally outpaced project rehabilitation (paras 24,25) and on-farm
water use efficiency improvements were drastically cut (para 29), the project's
physical improvements probably had only modestly positive impacts on the
environment. Eventhough monitoring o f environmental parameters i s now routine,
there i s negligible evaluation of the findings. Thus impacts are not known. Part of the


12.At appraisal, individual farm hydrantswere estimatedto cost DH6,000; actual costs were DH
20,000.
13. Inparallelwith SLIIP, USAID independently increasedthe area under drip irrigation at Tadla from
about 600 hectares in 1995 to almost 3,000 hectaresby 2001. And inthe Sous-Massaarea, the area
under micro-irrigationrose ffom 14,000 hectaresin 1995196to almost 36,000 hectares by 2002103
primarily as a resultofprivate investment respondingto improvedagribusinessexport opportunities.
14. Interviews with water user associations and federations June 2 1-29, 2004: Gharb WUA
Lechmalcha;Tadla WUA Nassr; Haoz W A SSultania, Skhait and SaidElHamd; and Souss
MassdAmont:WUF Mezguitaand WUA Massirat ElOuahda.

                                                      13


 problemmay be inadequate coordination with the Environmental Monitoring Units
 created by 1999 inthe Ministry of Agriculture under the terms of ASIL 11. As the ICR
 o f that operation noted: "An environmental screening unit was established by
 Ministerial Note but no resources were given to it for screening of projects, so the
 impact o f the measures is minima1."15

  Objective5: Thebudgetaly cost o f O&Mactivities wasnot reduced

 33.       A key project objective was to reduce the treasury's contributionto operation
 and maintenance costs of large-scale irrigation. The needfor a central subsidy arose
 because only two o f the nine ORMVAs (Doukkala and Tadla) were able to fully
 cover O&M costs, the difference being made up by transfers from the central budget
 o f the Ministry of Agriculture. SLIIP proposed to fillthe gap infour ways: increasing
 cost-recovery from beneficiaries, reducing the ORMVAs management costs, further
 increases inthe basic water charges, and facilitating govemment's restructuring o f the
 water pricing system to reflect the scarcity o f water brought about by inter-sectoral
 competition. None of these interventions was wholly successful (as discussedbelow)
 and, as a result, the net subsidies to O&M for all large-scale irrigation has steadily
 increased since 1996 intotal and per unit area irrigated, Table             4.16



Table 4: Subsidies for large-scaleirrigation have increased

                            SAR                 Project being Implemented                   Post-project
                            Base

ORMVA Cashflows             1991      1996/97  1997/98     1998/99   1999/00  2000/01    2001/02     2002/03

Total O&M costs
(excluding depreciation)     363        548      605         683        609     685         544       629

Income from tariffs and      369        550      589         655        603     480         408       461
fees

Receiptsicosts              98%        100%     97%         96%        99%     71%         75%        73%

Total Government              -6       -2.1     15.5        27.7        6.1    205.3       136.1      158.0
Subsidy

Total Area L S I          408,300                          500,000                                  672,000
Irrigated, ha

SubsidyDH/ha                 -13                            +55                                       +235

Source: Ministry of Agriculture, Rural Development, Water and Forestry, 2005


34.       In2003 only one ORMVA, Tadla, producedrevenues inexcess of
expenditures on O&M - even then the balance was declining rapidly due to the
effects o f drought (Annex B). Gharb's surplus became negative after 2001 and while
Moulouya (through good management) had managed to achieve a modest surplus in

15. ICR. Kingdom of Morocco. Second Agricultural Sector Investment Loan (Loan 3765-MOR). June
15, 1999. Reference: paragraph 40.
16. The mainly traditional irrigation systems east o f the Atlas (Ouarzazate and Taflilatet) are fully
subsidized by government and any water charges are set, managed and internally utilized by tribally-
based water user associations according to ancient and traditional water rights.

                                                 14


 2002, it needed a subsidy in2003. Conversely, Doukkala slipped from surplus to a
 deficit from 2001. Haouz is borderline successful, small surpluses over the period
 1997-99 becoming marginaldeficits in2000-03.

 35.      Incomefrom water fees increasedduringthe projectdespite a fall in
 collections. Overall income from water fees rose by a quarter between 1996-97 and
 1999-2000 and achieved 63 percent o f the SAR target o f DH565 million. Although
 the amount billed inthe final year was only slightly (4 percent) under expectations,
 the main problem was declining collection rates (Table 5). After the project both the
 collection rate and income further declined, only recovering slightly by 2003. While
 the average collection rate is low, there i s a marked difference among the ORMVAS.
 As before, Moulouya, Tadla and Haouz were the bestperformers, achieving averages
 o f 70 percent or better over the period 1996-2002,the others being around 50 percent.
 And when recovery o farrears is included incurrent receipts, overall cost recovery in
 2003 compared with that year's billings was greater then 90 percent. Whatever the
 level o f recovery, however, anything inexcess o f expenditures goes straight to the
 central fund o f the O R M V A to cross-subsidize other activities -particularly
 extension services -and cannot be usedto address deferred maintenance.

 Table 5: Cost recoveryis a chronicproblem

                          1994          1996-97        1998-99          2001            2003
Revenue DH                348            287            358              233            368
(millions)

Recovery rate of          84%            73%            70%             67%             69%
currentbillings

Source: Data submittedby each ORMVA, 2004


36.       Recovery o f billings i s adversely affected by a number o f factors and perverse
incentives. Farmers are unwilling to pay for reduced water supplies caused by
drought or interruptions to service due to defective conveyance. Inmany cases
ORMVAs allow some farmers free water to compensate for water losses." ORMVA
staff are also not empowered to penalize delinquent accounts and quickly collect
outstanding debt (farmers typically take about 8 years to pay o f f outstanding water
bills.) And from the ORMVAs' perspective, the most substantial disincentive i s that
water fee income inexcess o f current expenditure i s used to offset guaranteed
government subsidies to the whole ORMVA. Why should the ORMVA pushtoo hard
with the onerous and expensive task o f chasing and extracting payment from each
individual farmer when the government will subsidize any shortfall?

3 7.      ORMVA managementcapabilitieswere substantiallyimprovedthrough
the projectby relevant training and equipment. The most tangible improvement was
the introduction o f a common management information system that has allowed the
ORMVAs to undertake detailed cost-accounting. Inconsequence, the costs o f


17. Many farmers interviewed statedthat ORMVA staff typically allow them an extra 20% over the
water billed to compensate for conveyancewater losses.

                                                15


 operation and maintenance are well-definedand areas for efficiency improvements
 are known - essential actions, however, are often curtailedby inadequate ORMVA
 budgets. Management also improved following the formation of water user
 associations: the collective view of farmers' groups i s now generally taken into
 account when planning operation and maintenance tasks.


 Irrigated Areas Agricultural Services Project

 38.     The overall efficacy of IAASP is rated as substantial.

  ObjectiveI:Agriculturalproductionandfarmers incomesincreasedbutspecial
                                                              '
 effortsto reach women witheredthroughlack ofsupport

 39.     At appraisal there were no quantifiable projectionsofthe impact ofthe project
 on agricultural production and incomes because project inputs supported adaptive
 research, extension, and promotion of farmers' organizations. Therefore, there are no
 targets against which to measure achievements. Projectjustification was basedupon
 the analysis o f the benefits of agricultural research and extension elsewhere that gave
 ex-post economic rates o f returnranging from 14 to more than 500 percent. It was
 thus expected that the project would cover incremental costs becauseproject activities
 would increase overall value addedby agriculture inthe ORMVAs by more than 0.1
 percent." A variety o f data covering the period 1990-2003 was collated for OED by
 individual ORMVAs and provides strong evidence that agricultural production
 increased during the life of the project, notwithstandingthe droughts which occurred
 during project implementation and the
difficulty o f attribution." For
example, continuous time series data                   Figure 3: Wheat Production and yields have

providedby four ORMVA                                                      increased
                                                 Production                                               Yield
(Doukkala, Gharb, Moulouya, and                   (000 tons)                                            (tonslha)
Tadla) clearly demonstrate that yield               600                                       u             8

and productionof wheat increased                    500

during the project period (Figure 3).               400
                                                    300
40.     It is unclear, however, how                 200
much of the observed increase is                    100
attributable to the project.                           0                                                   ( 3
Government subsidies allied with low                      1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002

water charges seriously distort cereals
production, induce irrigation of low value crops and reduce farmers' risks.

41.     Both SLIIP and IAASP activities synergized agriculturalproduction chains
(Figure 4). InGharb, for example, the yield o f irrigatedmaize grown for forage
increased from 29 to 39 tondhectare over the period 1994-2002 and production


18. World Bank. 1988. The Economic Impact o f Agricultural Extension: A Review. Birkenhauser, D.,
R.EEvellson and G.Feder.
19. These data have beenhave been added to the Bank's archival files on these two operations.

                                                    16


  increased 98 percent to 138,700 tons.
  There remains significant untapped                          Figure 4: Milk production increased faster

 yieldpotentialas the higher forage                                      than fodder supplies

 yields (50-70 todhectare) in                      I
  Doukkala and Tadla indicate. The                         5.0 1                                               500

 falure to significantly increase yields              v)
                                                      s                                                            v)

 at Gharb i s wasteful of scarce water                     4.0                                                 400 2
                                                      U                                                           e
                                                                                                                  A
                                                      0
                                                      C
 that has a high opportunity cost. Even                                                                            S
                                                           3.0                                                 300
 so, the total area under irrigated                   -.-=E                                                       .-E
 forage inall three ORMVAs                            B0
                                                      d
                                                           2.0                                                 200g
 increased by almost 40 percent to                    LL
 over 44,000 hectares by 2001. As a                        1.o14-
                                                                                                               100
 result o f this and better animal                                 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002

 husbandry, breeding, and improved
 dairy practice and marketing through cooperatives and other farmers' organizations,
 total milk productionincreased.

 42.       Special efforts to promote women's development were successful but became
 less important after project closure. O f the two sub-objectives, only that dealing with
 extension support was implementedbut on a lesser scale than planned because
 additional qualified staff were not recruited.20The proposal to study and evaluate
 women's role inagriculture was dropped when the project was downsized.

 43.       Tafilalet, where 80 percent of women are engaged inagricultural work,
 provides a good example o f the component's effectiveness. Extensionactivities
 reached an estimated 5,500 women a year and eventually 28 womens' groups were
 successfully formed under the umbrellao f the D'Man cooperative to undertake sheep
 breeding, wool, milk, and meat production. In2002 this provided an income of about
 350 DH/month for each of the 972 women members.About 1,000 home vegetable
 gardens were set up that yield both cashbenefits and improvements to the family diet
 and health. During this program initial steps were taken to redress low levels of
female literacy (5 percent) -whichhave beenmainstreamed under a national literacy
program-and about 3,000 young girls are being trained inhandicrafts. By 2004 the
D'Man women's cooperative has expanded to include 36 groups and 1,553
beneficiaries. Ouarzazatehad 18 female assistants working on women's extension in
2001and 411womenjoined to create 11professional organizations including sheep
rearing, apiculture, and vegetable gardening. And 2,300 women a year enrolled in
literacy programs.

44.       Ownership of the WID program i s weak at the center. Since the project closed
all 13 women assistants' positions in Ouarzazate have beendeletedfrom the budget
(on instructions from the Ministry of Finance to reduce payroll costs) and the five
remaining assistants are employed as day laborers. InHaouz, of the six WID staff,
three left and were not replaced for the same reason. InSouss-Massathere are only



20. Recruitment o f 3 graduates and 30 technicians to complement the existing staff of 23. Another 40
assistants were to be recruited locally.

                                                  17


 two WID staff for the whole region and lack o ftransport curtails their mobility. In
 Tadla the eleven former WID workers now work for NGOs.

  Objective2: Theorganizationaland operationalefficiencyo fagricultural
 services within the ORMVAs wasimprovedin line with thereducedbudget.

 45.      Because diagnostic studies to identify priority tasks tailored to the widely
 variable agro-climatic regime of each ORMVA were not available, the ORMVAs'
 extension activities were not significantly expanded until 1998." Untilthen, and
 while buildingcapacity via extensive training, ORMVA staff only gradually replaced
 routine activities with IAASP tasks. However, once initiated, staff enthusiastically
 implementeda rejuvenated extension effort. The ICR's assessment ofthis objective
 as beingmarginally satisfactory and its observations on quality are fully endorsed by
 OED's field observations and interviews.

 46.      Substantial volumes o f agricultural and extension information were provided
 by most ORMVAs to OED and this gave a very clear picture of gross inputs and
 agricultural outputs by year - some of which have beenusedinthe graphs o f this
report. All these data were aggregated to the ORMVA level and there was no
differentiationby either IAASP or SLIIP inputs, or of agricultural outputs by
irrigationtype or rainfed areas within the ORMVAs. Similarly, there i s no reporting
on the effectiveness o f extension efforts, uptake by farmers and lessons learned.
Giventhat extension consumes the major part ofthe ORMVAs' budget-averaging
53 percent -muchmore attention i s needed tojustify these expenditures.

47.      Despite the shortcomings inM&E, it i s possible to infer substantial benefits
from improved extension services. Many staff and farmers met by OED stated that
the project brought about a shift inthe culture of the ORMVAs from a centralist top-
down organization to one that has become aware of farmers' service needs. A number
o f farmers' leaders participatedinoverseas visits and became aware that they could
catalyze change.'* Insome respects the 60 percent cut inthe vehicle budget proved a
blessing indisguise because it made extension personnel more dependent on farmers
for mobility and field coordination. Transferring the results of adaptive research to
farmers was notably successful in some areas -inTadla for example, cereals were
fine-tunedto local conditions, reducing inputs and increasing yields -but not in
others (Gharb.)

Objective3: Commodityandsewice-orientedfarmer organizationswere
promoted but theyhaveyet to takean increasingshare ofdevelopment
responsibilities

48.      The number o f professional organizations, including water user associations,
created to represent farmers' specialist activities, grew appreciably over the life o f the


21. The exception is Souss-Massa which had undertaken a participatory evaluation in 1995.The delay
was incurred by government's unwillingness to use foreign consultants recruited via FAO.
22. For example, the Presidento fthe Haouz's Sultania WUA went with other WUA presidentson
study tours to Tunisia and Franceto learn about modern irrigation techniques.

                                                       18


 project, a notable achievement (Table 6). Water user associations now cover 71
 percent o f Morocco's irrigatedarea, up from 20 percent before the project. Not all
 these organizations, however, are active. Although Moulouya has 77 WUAs, only 16
 are operational. Similarly, inDoukkalaonly 24 of 39 WUAs are active and only 219
 of 295 cooperatives.

 49.      Discussionwith farmers indicated that farmers' organizations are active and
 thriving inthe traditionally managed areas ofthe ORMVAs; indeed, many such
 organizations are the latest incarnationof tribally-based agricultural and water
 resource sharing and management systems that go back several thousand years. The
 vigor o f local organizations i s highly correlated with the level o f autonomy given to
 farmers and i s most apparent inthe three traditional schemes (Haoz, Ouarzazate, and
 Tafilalet) where old water rights still apply and public investment costs are not
 recovered. Thus, for example, cooperatives are still growing inTafilalet which was
 the one ORMVA withthe most enthusiastic women's agricultural producer
 organizations. Ownershipi s also highinthe traditional areas of other ORMVAs,
 particularly Souss-Massa and Haouz.


 Table 6: Growth of Farmers' OrganizationsWas Impressive

      Cooperatives and other
    Professional Organizations         I             Water User Associations (WUAs)

      1994                2004         I             1994                     2004
     Number              Number            Number          Area, ha    Number      Area, ha

       92*               1,534**             157            98,429       486       347,838

 Source: OED interviews and data from ORMVAs
 ***     Data from Tafilalet only, numbers probably in excess o f 500
         Data from 7 of the ORMVAs, Loukkos and Moulouyamissing

 50.     Outside the traditional areas, the independence o f farmers' organizations
 dependsvery muchon their financial resources. Non-profit making organizations,
particularly the WUAs, remain strongly dependent on the ORMVAs for technical
 support and advice because they depend on state infrastructure investments.
Conversely milk cooperatives are almost wholly independent, particularly inthe
Tadla, where there are 110 engaged inhusbandry and breedingto increase
production, currently about halfmillion literdday. Similarly, citrus, vegetables, olive,
honey, and henna cooperatives -where the means of production are all privately
owned - are highly successful.

51.      Since 1995 most WUAs were formed via the extension effort, although some
were voluntary -and all farmers have tojoin to obtain water service. InGharb for
example, rice growers formed 22 of the 54 WUAs because they saw opportunities for
water saving and reducing water costs. Inmost non-traditional areas water allocation
by the ORMVAs hadbeensometimes contentious and billing for water has been
difficult particularly for the large number o f smaller farms -these are major tasks for
all WUAs and, inmost cases, the underlyingrational for their creation. Generally,
involuntary formation overcame the major problem o f retrofitting the WUAs to

                                                      19


  existing system configurations while trying to ensure some ethnic, hydraulic, and
  crop homogeneity to ease the management                          Where these problems were not
  solved, W U A s tend to be ineffective. Inmany areas, land i s collectively owned and
  this makes billing for water muchmore difficult untilland leveling and consolidation
  take place. Although WUAs can be quite large, their responsibilities, except in
  traditional systems, are quite limited (Box 1).

  52.      W U A s typically cover areas o f 300-1,500 hectares (average 716 hectares) and
  have 300-600 members. Intraditional systems the ORMVAs tend to manage only the
  headworks and major diversion structures down to the secondary-level below which
  WUAs undertake and fund all the O&M tasks seeking advice as needed from the
  ORMVAs. Inthese areas, WUAs have formed federations to give them greater
 political leverage and a higher-level dispute resolution mechanism.

  53.      Within the existing large-scale irrigation systems, the ORMVAs continue to
 own, operate, maintain, and pay for all infrastructure down to the tertiary-level
 turnouts. Distributionwithin farm units, generally via earthen canals, i s the farmer's
 responsibility. The ORMVAs see the WUAs as their interface with the farmers.
 WUAs elect their committee and chairman, and the ORMVA delegates one o f its staff
 to sit on the WUA management board. As many o f the WUA's committee members
 inmost systems also serve on input, output andmarketing cooperatives, they facilitate
 an integrated approach to agricultural improvement.

 54.      There are mixed views about the role of the ORMVAs inthe management o f
 the WUAs and other water-related farmers' associations. InTadla, the members o fthe
 DripIrrigationAssociation are enthusiastic primarily because the ORMVA is the
 conduit that provides a 40 percent government subsidy for the hightechnology drip
 irrigation system and givesthem defacto water rights (Box 2). Inthe same area, the
 President o f the Nasr WUA laudedthe ORMVA's help inrescheduling their
 agricultural credit following six-seven years o f drought. But the same farmer felt that
 the new concrete canalettes were far less robust than the ones that had been replaced,
 that there were no improvements attributable to the project, and that more attention
 should have been given to extension and outreach services.

 55.      InGharb the Erraha WUA wanted to do more O&M but only ifthere were
 adequate financial incentives -to date their better water management had led to 20
percent water savings but their water costs stayed the same. They were willing to
undertake billing o f their own members but did not do so because the ORMVA would
not cede to them the authority or give them a discount for doing so. InHaouz
Amont's Skrhait WUA, the president said that the controversy surrounding water
allocation and regulation was so great that they relied upon the ORMVA's impartial
decision-making. And the universal view o f most ORMVA irrigation professionals


23. InTadla, for example, where feasible it was found better to form separate W A Sfor Berbersand
Arabs to avoid conflict. And inHaouz, Ouazazte and Tafilalet almost all the secondary or tertiary
distributaries o ftraditional systems are tribally-managed. Similar crop types are an issue because water
billings are on an area basis within the W A Sand are subject to negotiation- volumetric sales
throughout the system would ease this constraint.

                                                   20


was that the farmers were unable to cope with the complexity o f water demand
forecasts and thus water allocation issues above the tertiary level distributaries.


Box 1: WUA's Responsibilities Differ in Modern and Traditional Irrigation
Systems

Garb (Modern): Erraha WUA.Formed May                 Ouazazate(Traditional): Mezpuita WUF.
1999.Has 722 hectares and represents 240             Has 21 WUAsformed 1994-2001. Covers
members. Grows rice,forage and cereals.              2,785 hectares and represents 1,179farmers.
What does the WUA do?                                What does the WUF do?

President of the WUA acts as the interlocutor        Participate inthe preparation o f irrigation and
with ORMVA staff and signs for the water             allocation.
consumption o fthe whole group.                      Review and discuss with the ORMVA its
Water allocation i s decided by the ORMVA after      proposed operations and maintenance and agree
taking account o f the cropping patterns within its  priorities.
command area provided by the W A S .The
ORMVA therefore acts as the honest broker to         WUAs participate and provide labor for all O&M
msure equitable distribution for the W A S .         below the primary channel (insome areas the
                                                     secondary). Ifthey don't have enough labor they
The ORMVA records the volume, time and               raise money from the membership pro rata
discharge o f water to the WUA area, and this is     according to water rights and hire labor from the
distributed by ORMVA staff pro rata by area          market.
irrespective o f crops, providing water to cereals
Erst.                                                Water allocation. The union o f water users'
                                                     association meets with the ORMVA to agree on
The ORMVA maintains a register o f each             the overall allocation o f water within the area, and
rarmer's consumption for billing purposes, giving   water i s shared within the area according to
I copy to the  W A . After the WUA committee        traditional water rights. The WUAs do not pay the
igrees the record, the bill i s countersigned by    ORMVA for water or contribute to any capital
Joth and sent to ORMVA headquarters.                investment.
The Ministryo f Finance agent within the            Water management i s by the owners according to
IRMVA bills the farmer and the revenue              their water rights.The ORMVA supplies the
iepartment then collects the account from the       water to the primary or secondary canals and
armer. The water fees collected go into the         thereafter the local WUAs manage, distribute, bill
;enera1 ORMVA account and are not earmarked         and charge the members on a pro rata basis. The
or operation and maintenance.                       W A Sretain and use the income to undertake
The ORMVA undertakes and finances all               operation, management and maintenance o fthe

)perationand maintenance to the tertiary level;     irrigation system below the primary level.

armers maintain their own irrigation channels
)elowthe tertiary level and within their own
arms. They are willing to undertake maintenance
bove the tertiary level, but the MoF i s not
greeable to paying them via a 20% discount on
vater charges.
lispute resolution. Normally by the WUA             Dispute resolution. Inthe first instance, this is
ommittee with the Chairman having the casting       done within the WUAs by the Chairman, and
ote. Ifnot solved there, referred to the ORMVA.     where there i s no solution, the WUF forms ajury
f a farmer i s unable to pay he can make an         from the WUAs to judge the issue. Ifthey cannot
rrangement with the ORMVA to pay it o f f in        agree, it goes to the ORMVA or governor.
istallments. Inthe meantime he continues to         Extreme cases may even go to the Ministry o f
xeive water.                                        Agriculture.
ource: OED interview June 2 1, 2004                 Source: OED interview June 28,2004.

                                                        21


   Box 2: Tadla Drip Irrigation Associations (DIP) - a successful farmer-led
   initiative

   USAID piloted drip irrigation inthis area and subsequently the initiative was expandedunder
   the SLIIP. The President of the DIP farms 300 hectares and planted 120 hectares to citrus
   orchards in 1999. After seeing the efficacy of drip irrigation on a visit to Spain, he had
   converted the whole area to drip irrigation at US$2,000/hectare, induced by a 40 percent
   government subsidy. The whole 120 hectares is served by a one hectare reservoir that
   (including pumping station and filtration system) cost $280,000. Current citrus yields are 40
   tondhectare and he expects to increase this to 60 using fertigation by 2007. The DIP has 30
   members farming 5,000 hectares. Anyone can join if they willing to do all the work
   themselves- but the DIP will provide advice. The advantages of membership are substantial.
   Apart from the subsidy, the ORMVA will guarantee them water if they invest; members are
   not confined to the normal rotation and can get water on demand; and water use efficiency
   gains reducewater usage by about 40 percent(from 12,000 m3/hectareto 7,000 m3/hectare.)
I  Source: OED Interview with Mr. Sfiani. June 23, 2004.                                        I

   Objective 4: University teachingandresearch staffcontributed much to
   research andimpartingresults to field extension

   56.       Independentevaluation ofthe components contributing to this objective found
   that the research topics were relevant, the work quality high and dissemination o f
   results to ORMVAs and farmers was satisfactory. Contracted-out research benefited
   boththe ORMVAS and universities: the ORMVAs learned to translate regionally
   variable agricultural development problems into well-formulated research proposals
   while the universities became involvedinthe practical applicationofresearch at the
   field


   EFFICIENCY

   57.       The overall efficiency of the two projects together is rated as substantial
   on economic efficiency criteria. At appraisal the economic rate o f returnof SLIIP
   was estimated to be 23 percent. The re-estimation at completion was 28 percent, the
   slight increase being attributed to the significantly higher (almost 2.5 times greater)
  net returns attributable to partial rehabilitation. The ERR was not estimated for
  IAASP either at appraisal or closure. Even so, the agriculturalbenefit stream of SLIIP
  was enhanced by improvements made by IAASP to improving irrigationand drainage
  through WUAs, improvedmanagement of extension services and other inputs, and
  better marketing. Thus, true costs o f the SLIIP benefits stream should include
  IAASP's costs. Adding IAASP's costs to those o f SLIIP increases SLIIP costs by a




~~~       ~~




24. Agbani, M.,A. HarzeniandA. Laamamri.2000. Evaluationde la ResearcheAdaptative dans les
ORMVAs. FA0 Project UTFiOI4IMOR.

                                                    22


  modest 11percent and reduces the overall ERRby about two percentage points to 26
  per~ent.'~


  INSTITUTIONAL       DEVELOPMENT        IMPACT

  Overallinstitutionaldevelopmentimpact ofSLIIPis rated asmodest.

  58.      Although farmers have beenorganized into a large number o f associations and
  cooperatives, some of the most vital, the WUAs, are operating far below their
 potential contribution to O&M. This i s most clearly demonstrated by the wide-
 rangingresponsibilities effectively discharged by the WUAs and WUFs inthe
 traditionally irrigatedareas. WUAs intraditional areas not only manage their own
  systems, they have ancient water rights and allocation procedures that enables them
 also to charge much higher water service fees than the O R M V A S .Conversely, inthe
                                                                                  ~ ~
 modern systems the majority of WUAs remain almost wholly reliant on the
 ORMVAs for most aspects of O&M, including allocation o f water, billing and
 collection o f water charges.

 59.       Contracts for water deliveries to WUAs were supposed to be appliedto all
 ORMVAs but were piloted inonly three (Haouz, Moulouya, and Loukkos) with
 indeterminate results partly because of the droughts. The major issue i s that
 government i s unwillingto grant water rights, and i s ambivalent about scope of
 beneficiary participation. It accepts WUAs as institutional interlocutors but will not
 make binding agreements with them or transfer any irrigation management functions
 to them.

 60.      Thus WUAs are not inapositionto demand better water service becausenone
 i s offered. And this acts as a strong disincentive for farmers to invest in equipment to
 improve on-farm water management, disincentive enhanced by an agricultural policy
 that favors heavy subsidieswhich encourage irrigation o f low value and low profit
 crops. And low profitability effectively precludes raising water service fees thus
 continuing the cycle of insufficient maintenance and lower service delivery
 standards. Not only does this low level equilibriumtrap stop modernizationof on-
farm water management, it also causes scarce water to be usedunproductively
considering its opportunity cost.

61.       The wide-scale adoption of management information systems was a notable
success o f the project. It has enabled a very clear understanding of what contributes to

25. The SARs and ICRS only contain summary analyses of ERRSand the detailed analysis i s not
available inthe project files. Accordingly OED's evaluation is based on the summarized sensitivity
tests included in the SLIIP's SAR.

26. In Sous Massa and Sous Amont both modern and traditional irrigation paid 0.22 DH/m3 in2002
(prior to pumping costs) because O&M was undertakenby the ORMVA. Conversely, inthe traditional
Issen perimeter the water charges for gravity supplies were 0.58 to 0.62 DH/m3. In Doukkala gravity
supplies are 0.18 to 0.25 DH/m3and inpumped systems 0.34 to 0.41 DH/m3.The value added by
irrigation inDoukkala was 3.5 to 5 DH/m3for vegetables, 2.6 for cereals, 2.4 for sugar beet and 1.5 for
fodder crops. Water costs are therefore about 10% of value added given that most vegetables would
have pumped supplies, the other crops being gravity.

                                              23


  the cost o f running the ORMVAs and has effectively introduced quasi-commercial
  cost accounting. Several ORMVAs now subcontract maintenance to other state-
  owned, mixed, or private companies. At the government and the ORMVA levels,
  however, there i s unwillingness to move away from business-as-usualand move
  toward actual commercialization, unbundling, and privatizationof many of the
  service delivery functions. There are several reasons for this. Current laws would
  needsubstantial revision. The public sector, fearing job losses, is resistant. The
  Ministry o f Finance fears that it would have no control over private sector
  management and cost-recovery onpublic assets. And there i s politicalpressure not to
 charge realistic prices for irrigation water. Evenlesser reforms have not been pursued.
 Management Improvement Programs were agreedwith Tadla and Doukkos in 1993
 butthis has not beenreplicated inthe other ORMVAs.

 IrrigatedAreas AgriculturalServices Project

 62.      Institutionaldevelopmentis rated as modest.Organizational changeto
 improve service delivery and lower costs was only partially achieved infour of the
 seven ORMVAs. Crop production, livestock, and extension were brought under one
 director (instead o f three) and several formerly independent field activities were
 merged indistrict development centers. The most serious failing was the failure to
 introduce performance monitoring and evaluation to discern what works and why and
 determine the cost-benefit ratio for various inputpackagesat the farm level.


 SUSTAIN ABILITY

 63.     Sustainabilityof both projectsis likely in the medium-term.This will be
 true as long as the government continues to subsidize the recurrent costs, and external
 development partners provide the bulk o f the rehabilitation and investment costs.
 Sustainability would be improved ifthe irrigation operations of the ORMVAs are
made financially autonomous and water tariffs are increased to cover full O&M costs.


BANKPERFORMANCE

64.      OverallBankperformanceon bothprojectsis ratedas unsatisfactory.
The design of SLIIP was very mucha case o f "business as usual" with too much
emphasis on civil works and not enough on institutional reformthat was identifiedas
a major issue for the sector (para 7).A standard approach applied to all ORMVAs did
not consider that each had very differentmanagement approaches, and that social,
geographic and agroclimatic challenges were not the same. At the yellow cover stage
several reviewers argued for more focused objectives to avoid too muchdilution of
effort, and a smaller project directed at one or two ORMVAs. These views were
ignored. Concerns that the high level o f tariff protection for agriculture would provide
perverse incentives for conserving water were not seen as relevant to these projects.
The size of the projects was also at variance withthe macroeconomic realities,
leading to problems later.

65.     Although there was much rhetoric about the transforming power o f farmers'
participationto make irrigation and extension service delivery more accountable,

                                             24


 these stakeholders were not included at appraisal. The substantial body o f work on
 water tariffs requiredto make the ORMVAs irrigation operations financially viable
  and the need for improved extension was not matched by the same level of attention
 to institutional analysis to determine how beneficiary ownership could be built. The
 use of water rights to create farmers' demand for better service delivery was
 overlooked, as was redressingthe incentive structure of participating government and
 ORMVA institutions or looking at alternative ways to achieve objectives. Similarly
 the attention givento enablingM&E was woefully inadequate. Separatingthe
 agricultural and irrigation components put the two projects incompetition for the
 same financial resources withinthe ORMVAs, and led to a significant loss of
 potential synergy betweenO&M needs and revenue generation from beneficiaries.

 66.     Supervision of both projects was complicated by significant budget cuts,
 delays inprocuring specialist consultants, and disbursementdifficulties, all of which
 jeopardized achievement o f most institutional objectives. While it would have made
 sense for Bank management to have redefinedthe projects' objectives and/or
 downsize or eliminate components, this was not done. As a result of these problems,
 supervision teams had an uphilltask delivering on objectives, a task not helpedby
 several changes o f task manager on IAASP and separate supervision missions until
 1998.On the positive side, proactive supervision ensured good quality civil works
 and greater realism o f the agricultural research and extension programs. The World
 Bank Institute facilitated introductionofparticipatory irrigation management (PIM)
 through a national workshop and PIM gathered some momentum as the project came
 to closure.


 BORROWERPERFORMANCE

 67.    Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory. Despite the importance o f
the sector andthe needfor reform, government ownership o fthe institutionalreform
aspects o f the projects was weak. Government was unwilling to see that large
agricultural subsidies provided few incentives to conserve water thus creating
conflicting objectives inthe sector. Counterpart funding was problematic throughout
the project, a situation exacerbated by the failure to include the Ministry of Finance in
project appraisal and subsequent revisions o f the projects' financing.

68.     While the projects appear to have contributed substantially to increases in
agricultural production and knowledge about the costs o f ORMVA operations, the
efficiency improvements to the ORMVAs' service delivery functions cannot be
determinedbecause ofpoor monitoringand evaluation. Consequently, attention to
cost recovery languished. ORMVAS are only modestly more accountable to service
users. There was little progress on water conservation and environmental
management. Budget support for the ORMVAs' irrigation activities increased rather
than decreased. The large number o f farmers' agricultural organizations created
function far below their potential (except intraditional systems) because o f the
government's unwillingness to allow co-management or privatization, particularly for
the O&M o f irrigation systems. Inshort, the situationat the end o f SLIIP was only
marginally improved-but at considerable cost -compared with that at the end of
FLIIP (para 8).

                                               25


 4.       FindingsandLessons

 FINDINGS

 69.      The deterioration ofMorocco's large-scale irrigation infrastructure was
 slowed by the SLIIP and the relevance of agricultural extension services and research
 was enhanced by the IAASP. The impact of the SLIIP was significantly diluted
 because the funding was spreadtoo thinly over all nine ORMVAs. O f even more
 concern, attentionto institutional reformwas sidelinedby the demands o f the
 technical aspects o f the projects most of which were under-funded. Ifthe project had
 focused on only one or two ORMVAs, bringingthem to much higher standards of
 operational efficiency, and had given detailed attention to the institutional and social
 aspects of beneficiary participatiodmanagementand cost recovery linkedto
 improvements inextension, then a replicable model for the sustainable management
 o f the remaining ORMVAs may have emerged.Apart from the engineering, little
 more i s known after the projects about how to share costs or how to motivate
 beneficiaries to pay their dues. And apart from a few select areas, water use efficiency
 was not improved.

 70.      Although a large number of farmers' organizations was formed, in general
they have neither relieved the ORMVAs oftheir service delivery role nor Iedto
increased payment for these services. Inparticular, the marked contrast between
WUAs inthe traditionally managedareas and those within the modernirrigation
perimeters clearly indicates that farmers' leaders are willing to take responsibility for
water distribution, management and cost recovery - if given water rights and
empowered to do so through enabling laws and regulations. Currently, neither the
government nor the ORMVAs (inmodernperimeters) appear willing to cede any real
authority to the WUAs.

71.       The projects' separation of the agricultural and irrigationactivities was
counter-productive because both were in competition for the limited financial
resources within each ORMVA. This was particularly important since both
agricultural benefits and improved irrigation service delivery will be the factors to
encourage farmers to willingly pay more for water. Indeed, the neglect o f on-farm
water management improvements nullified the positive effect o f more reliable water
supplies.Most farmers, except inthe pressurized systems, saw no improvements in
on-farm water use efficiency and no direct financial benefits. This inturn highlights
the importance o fbeneficiaryparticipation inthe design and balance of future
projects to determine what packages of inputs farmers would be willing to pay for.
Butwhile integrated planning andmanagement of inputspackages is essential, the
costs o f the different service activities and associated benefits needto be clearly
separated, monitored and evaluated.

72.      The government's desire to reduce subsidies to large-scale irrigation by
forcing irrigation cost-recovery to cross-subsidize general ORMVA activities i s
counter-productive. It denies the universally acknowledged link betweenfarmers'
willingness to pay for improvedwater services that are dependent on adequate

                                             26


 maintenance that inturn arejeopardized by continued inadequate funding. Similarly,
 spending on agricultural extension services within the ORMVAs i s potentially wasted
 ifwater deliveryor improvedon-farmirrigationsystemscannot beguaranteed.
 Unwillingness to make the irrigation operation and maintenance and cost recovery
 functions financially autonomous clearly displays the government's ambivalence to
 systemic reform of the sector.

 73.     It is imperative that the government should pursuenewpolicies that phase out
 costly irrigation water for crops inwhich Morocco does not have a comparative
 advantage. This would permit water to flow to other higher-valued uses including
 export crops and urban water supplies.Crop production remains distorted because
 price structures provide incentives for irrigatedcrops that are either water intensive
 such as rice and sugarbeet, and evenfor cereals to which water adds only a small
value. Ifmore attention were givento diversification by relaxing food grain and sugar
 subsidies, thenthe value generated by irrigationwould be significantly higher, thus
enablinghigher water tariffs -providing the government was willing to levy them. In
turn, higher-value productionwould accelerate investmentinhighefficiency
irrigation systems: the very slow growth o f the area under intensive high-tech
irrigation i s surprisinglysmall for a country that i s critically water-short. And more
profitable irrigationwould enable the higher water user fees neededto improve
operation and maintenance o f the LSIs.

74.      The government clearly recognizes that things have to change. To this end a
Bank-government institutional reform-working group was set up within the Ministry
o f Agriculture inlate 2001. This group has highlightedthe issues underlying the lack
o f maintenance, declining irrigation service delivery and users' unwillingnessto pay
for poor service, It recommends that ORMVAs' activities be unbundledto separate
irrigationand agricultural extension functions to make them ready for
commercializedmanagement and eventual privatization. The necessary cost
informationi s already available and so i s the knowledge about the level o f water
tariffs that are neededto make the O&M financially viable. These proposals remain
under consideration bythe government. Inthe absence ofdecisions to reform, the
government has embarked on a new round o f foreign loans to finance deferred
maintenance and continues with plans to expand the irrigated area.


Lessons

75.      Experience with this project confirms a number of OED lessons:

    0   Water conservation has to be approached holistically and incentives to
        increase water use efficiency need to be harmonizedat the macro- and micro-
        level. InMorocco, failure to remove agricultural subsidies and raise
        agriculturalwater charges encouraged farmers to take the low risk path o f
        usinghighvalue (but low cost) water for low value crops. And low water
        prices and returns discouraged farmers' investment inon-farm water
        conservation improvements.
    0   Secure water rights and predictable water supplies provide incentives for
        farmers to invest inhigh-tech irrigation and bring about significant water

                                      27


   savings. Profits from highvalue irrigated crops will enable payment o f the
  higher water charges needed to efficiently operate and maintain the publicly-
  owned upstream water delivery system.
0 Service providers should have full autonomy to set and retain water users'
  fees to guarantee water delivery through adequate operation and maintenance.
  Financial management and accounting o f different services - inthis case
  water and agricultural extension - should be clearly separated to avoid hidden
  cross-subsidies and allow clear demarcation o f costs.
0 Cost-recovery from users o f irrigation and agricultural services will be
  difficult ifbeneficiaries are not involved indesigning service packages and
  cost-recovery mechanisms, and project sponsors do not consider the incentive
  framework for farmers to participate. Equally important, water users will not
  pay ifthey receive no obvious and tangible benefits and do not have secure
  water rights.
0 Adequate monitoring and evaluation and specialist inputs are essential to
  determining project achievements and the impact o f the Bank's interventions.
0 The phasing o f irrigation and agricultural improvement projects requires very
  careful attention to maximize their effectiveness particularly when they
  involve institutional reform. The experience o f these and other OED project
  evaluations is that line agencies responsible for operation o f infrastructure and
  extension services will put their own interests before institutional reform -
  thus expecting that reformwill follow infrastructure investment is risky.
  Conversely, conditioning investment on highlevel borrower buy-in and
  reform does work, a good example being the Amman water supply project.

  Project effectiveness i s enhanced when the scope o f rural development
 projects i s restricted so that measurable results can be achieved. First, care has
 to be taken, in geographically and socially diverse countries, that resources are
 not spread too thinly to achieve project objectives. Second, focus objectives
 and subprojects so that the investment brings about substantive and replicable
 improvements. Third, fine-tune project interventions so that local
 circumstances and needs are fully taken into account.


                                                      29                                          Annex A


Annex A: Basic Data Sheet

MOROCCO SECONDLARGE SCALEIRRIGATIONIMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN        3587-~0)


                                               Appraisal          Actual or            Actual as % of
                                                estimate       current estimate      appraisal estimate
Total project costs                              367.3               199.8                  54
Loan amount                                      215.0               108.0                  50
Cofinancing                                       23.0               23.0                   100
Cancellation                                       __                107.2


CumulativeEstimated and Actual Disbursements
                            FY93    FY94  FY95 FY96    FY97     FY98     FY99     FYOO   FYOI    FYO2-04
Appraisal estimate
(US$M)                       0        0   11.0 37.0    67.0     101.0    139.0    179.0  205.0    215.0

Actual (US$M)                0       5.0  7.6  30.9    47.2     80.2     94.8     106.5  113.2     113.2
Actual as % of
amraisal                                  69    83      70       79       68       59      55       52

Date of final disbursement:     6/10/1998




                                                      Original                         Actual
PXS                                                                                  05/24/1989
Appraisal                                                                            12/10/1992
Board approval                                                                       03/30/1993
Effectiveness                                        09/22/1993                      09/22/1993
Closing date                                         12/31/2000                      12/31/2009




               Stage of Project Cycle                             ActuaVLatest Estimate
                                                     No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
   Identification/Preparation                               172.4                          280.7
  AppraisaI/Negotiation                                        112                         259.9
   Supervision                                              246.6                         811.3
   ICR                                                        22.5                         85.5
  Total                                                     553.5                         1437.4

                                                        30                           Annex A


Mission Data
                            No. of    Specializations represented    Implementation Development
          MonthNear         Persons                                    Progress      Objective

 IdentificationIPreparation
              0511989            2   Irrigation Engineers                 S              S

              0411991            2   Economists                           S              S
                                  I  Agriculturalist                      S              S

                                  I  Sociologist                          S              S
                                  I  Environment Specialist               S              S
                                 2   FinancialAnalysts                    S              S
                                  1  Institution Specialist               S              S



AppraisalINegotiation
                1011992          2   Irrigation Engineer
                                  1  Economist
                                 I   Financial Analysts
                                 1   Sociologist
                                 I   Environment Specialist


Supervision
                0811993           I  Irrigation Engineer                  S              S

                1211993           1  Civil Engineer                       S              S

                0211994           I  Institution Specialist               HS            HS

                0611994           I  Economist                            S              S

                1011994           1  WUA Specialist                       S              S

                0511995           I  Trade Specialist                     S              S

                0211996
                0611996
                0811996
                0111997
                0611997
                1211997
                0511998
                0111999
                0411999
                1211999
                0612000


ICR
              0612001           2    Irrigation Engineer                  S              S

                                 1   Economist                            S              S

                                 I   WUA specialist                       S              S

                                 4   Agronomist                           S              S

                                                         31                                                             Annex A


  Other Project Data
  Borrower/Executing Agency:
 FOLLOW-ON     OPERATIONS
  Operation                                        Credit no.                             Amount              Board date
                                                                                        (US$ million)


   None.




 MOROCCO IRRIGATEDAREAS AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT (LOAN
 3688 -MO)


                                             Appraisal                               Actual or            Actual as % of
                                             estimate                       current estimate            appraisal estimate
 Total project costs                          34.7                                      21.7                      63
 Loan amount                                  25.0                                      25.0                     100
 Cofinancing                                     __
                                                 __                                       _ _
 Cancellation                                                                            9.9                      ____

 CumulativeEstimatedand Actual Disbursements
______                    FY94.___ FY95  FY96  FY97
                                                 . l l ~ " . . . . _ . . _ . l l l l ~ .
                                                                     FY98                FY99      FYOO
                                                                                                     I " - . ~
                                                                                                             FYOI      FYO2-04
                                                                                                                          l.__l"
Appraisal estimate"-"-"
 (US$M)                    1.5      3.3  7.9     13.9                  19.7               22.9     24.4        25        25

Actual (US$M)              0        0    1.8      3.5                   4.1               6.8      8.0        11.9      12.8
Actual as % of
appraisal                                23       25                     21                 30      33         48        51

Date of final disbursement:  11/16/2001                                                                                 -I-




                                                       Original                                           Acfual
PCD                                                                                                     06/20/1991
Appraisal                                                                                               01/22/1993
Board approval                                                                                          12/21/1993
Effectiveness                                                                                           05/04/1995
MTR                                                 12/31/1996                                          11/27/1997
Closing date                                       06/30/2000                                           06/30/2001


StaffInputs(staff weeks)
                                                                                ActuaVLatest Estimate
                                                 No. Staff weeks                                           US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                        na                                                          305.5
AppraisallNegotiation                             na                                              included in the amount above
Supervision                                       na                                                          502.1
ICR                                               na                                                           20.0
Total                                             na                                                          827.6

                                                       32                                    Annex A


Mission Data
                             No. of             Specializations              Implementation Development
                Monthnear   Person                                             Progress      Objective


 IdentificationlPreparation
         September 1991         1   Agronomist
         September 1992         5   Agronomist, AgricuIturaI Economist,
                                     Horticulturalist, Extension Specialist,
                                     Sociologist


 AppraisallNegotiation
         February 1993         5    Agronomist, AgricuIturaI
                                    Economist, Horticulturalist,
                                    Extension Specialist, Financial
                                    Analyst
         November 1993         3    Agronomist, Lawyer, Disbursement
                                    Officer

 Supervision
         May 1994               3   TTL, Economist, Extension                     S            HS
                                    Specialist
        April 1995             2    TTL, Economist                                HS           HS
         December 1995          2   TTL, Financial Analyst                        U             U
         May 1996               I   TTL                                           U             U
        June 1996               1   TTL                                           S             S
         December 1996          1   TTL                                           U             U
        July 1997              I    TTL                                           S             S
        December 1997          4    TTL, Cooperative Specialist,                  S             U
                                    Research &Extension Specialist
                                    Financial Analyst
        May 1998               2    TTL, Financial Analyst                        S            U
        December 1998          3    TTL, Operations Officer, Financial            U            U
                                    Analyst
        June 1999              I    TTL                                           S            S
        December 1999          2    TTL, Economist                                S            S
        June 2000              4    TTL, Operations officer, Economist,           S            S
                                    Financial Analyst
        January 2001           3    TTL, Research and Extension                   S            S
                                    Specialist, Financial Analyst
       June 2001              3     TTL, Agricultural Services Specialist,        S            S
                                    FinancialAnalyst
ICR

                               33                               Annex A


Other Project Data
Borrower/ExecutingAgency:
FOLLOW-ONOPERATIONS
Operation                    Credit no.    Amount        Board date
                                         (US$ million)


None


