Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3688 MOR
                              Loan Agreement
              (Irrigated Areas Agricultural Services Project)
                                  between
                            KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated February 6, 1995
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3688 MOR
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated February 6, 1995, between KINGDOM OF MOROCCO (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
    WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
    (B)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by the ORMVAs (as
defined in Section 1.02 (j) of this Agreement) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to ORMVAs a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this
Agreement; and
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and ORMVAs;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph
(l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any
    further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the
    provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of
    Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
    (a)   "Doukkala ORMVA" means the Doukkala Regional Authority for
Agricultural Development (Office Regional de Mise en Valeur Agricole des
Doukkala), a public enterprise established and operating pursuant to Decree
(Decret) No. 827-66 dated October 22, 1966, issued by the Borrower, as the
same may be amended from time to time.
    (b)   "Gharb ORMVA" means the Gharb Regional Authority for Agricultural
Development (Office Regional de Mise en Valeur Agricole du Gharb), a public
enterprise established and operating pursuant to Decree (Decret) No. 830-66
dated October 22, 1966, issued by the Borrower, as the same may be amended
from time to time.
    (c)   "Haouz ORMVA" means the Haouz Regional Authority for Agricultural
Development (Office Regional de Mise en Valeur Agricole du Haouz), a public
enterprise established and operating pursuant to Decree (Decret) No. 831-66
dated October 22, 1966, issued by the Borrower, as the same may be amended
from time to time.
    (d)   "Loukkos ORMVA" means the Loukkos Regional Authority for
Agricultural Development (Office Regional de Mise en Valeur Agricole du
Loukkos), a public enterprise established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower's Law (Dahir) No. 1-74-238 dated April 23, 1975, as the same may
be amended from time to time.
    (e)   "Moulouya ORMVA" means the Moulouya Regional Authority for
Agricultural Development (Office Regional de Mise en Valeur Agricole de la
Moulouya), a public enterprise established and operating pursuant to Decree
(Decret) No. 832-66 dated October 22, 1966, issued by the Borrower, as the
same may be amended from time to time.
    (f)   "Ouarzazate ORMVA" means the Ouarzazate Regional Authority for
Agricultural Development (Office Regional de Mise en Valeur Agricole de
Ouarzazate), a public enterprise established and operating pursuant to
Decree (Decret) No. 829-66 dated October 22, 1966, issued by the Borrower,
as the same may be amended from time to time.
    (g)   "Souss-Massa ORMVA" means the Souss-Massa Regional Authority for
Agricultural Development (Office Regional de Mise en Valeur Agricole du
Souss-Massa), a public enterprise established and
operating pursuant to Decree (Decret) No. 2-70-157 dated October 8, 1970,
issued by the Borrower, as the same may be amended from time to time.
    (h)   "Tadla ORMVA" means the Tadla Regional Authority for Agricultural
Development (Office Regional de Mise en Valeur Agricole du Tadla), a public
enterprise established and operating pursuant to Decree (Decret) No. 828-66
dated October 22, 1966, issued by the Borrower, as the same may be amended
from time to time.
    (i)   "Tafilalet ORMVA" means the Tafilalet Regional Authority for
Agricultural Development (Office Regional de Mise en Valeur Agricole du
Tafilalet), a public enterprise established and operating pursuant to Decree
Page  3
(Decret) No. 833-66 dated October 22, 1966, issued by the Borrower, as the
same may be amended from time to time.
    (j)   "ORMVAs" means, collectively, the public enterprises referred to
in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h) and (i) of this Section
1.02, and "ORMVA" means any one of the ORMVAs.
    (k)   "its respective Part of the Project" means, in respect of:
          (i)   the Doukkala ORMVA, Part A (1) of the Project;
         (ii)   the Gharb ORVMA, Part A (2) of the Project;
        (iii)   the Haouz ORMVA, Part A (3) of the Project;
         (iv)   the Loukkos ORMVA, Part A (4) of the Project;
          (v)   the Moulouya ORMVA, Part A (5) of the Project;
         (vi)   the Ouarzazate ORMVA, Part A (6) of the Project;
        (vii)   the Souss-Massa ORMVA, Part A (7) of the Project;
       (viii)   the Tadla ORMVA, Part A (8) of the Project; and
         (ix)   the Tafilalet ORMVA, Part A (9) of the Project.
    (l)   "its respective Perimeter" means, in respect of each ORMVA, an
irrigated perimeter and surrounding productive agricultural land.
    (m)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and
ORMVAs of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement.
    (n)   "Basic Legislation" means the Decrees and Law referred to in
paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h) and (i) of this Section
1.02, as the same may be amended from time to time.
    (o)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement.
    (p)   "Category" means a withdrawal category set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
    (q)   "Fiscal Year" means the twelve month period commencing on January
1 and ending on December 31.
    (r)   "Project Annex" means the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
    (s)   "Farmers' Organizations" means the chambers of agriculture,
producer associations and agricultural cooperatives.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of
twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
    (b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
Page  4
maintain in dirhams a special deposit account in its General Treasury, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later date
as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at
the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
respect of such Semester.
    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
                date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
                2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                in which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
                percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the
                Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
                borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest
                rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph
                (a) of this Section.
        (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
          amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time,
          at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
          one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates
          specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
          pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during
          the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
          during such Interest Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
          the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing
          on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Page  5
Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this
end, shall carry out Part B of the Project, and cause Part A of the Project
to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative and financial practices and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for such Parts of the Project.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall carry out Part B of the Project, and cause Part A of the
Project to be carried out, in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part B of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
                of this Section including those for the Special Account for
                each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
                not later than six months after the end of each such year,
                the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
                and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                requested; and
        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
                shall from time to time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received
                the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last
                withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the
                Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                such expenditures;
        (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records;
                and
         (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
Page  6
                annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
                preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
                withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   Any ORMVA shall have failed to perform any of its respective
obligations under the Project Agreement.
    (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the
Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that any ORMVA will be able to perform its respective
obligations under the Project Agreement.
    (c)   The Basic Legislation shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of any ORMVA to perform any of its respective obligations under the
Project Agreement.
    (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any ORMVA or for
the suspension of its operations.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
    (b)   Any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of this Agreement
shall occur.
    Section 5.03. If the Bank shall suspend in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02
of the General Conditions as a result of the failure of any ORMVA to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement, the Bank shall take into
account the part of the Loan allocated to such ORMVA in determining the
portion of the Loan affected by said suspension.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
    (a)   The Project unit shall have been established within the Ministry
of Agriculture and Agricultural Development and staffed in accordance with
the provisions of Section 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (b)   Each ORMVA shall have furnished to the Bank, through the Direction
de l'Enseignement, de la Recherche et du Developpement of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Agricultural Development a program of adaptive research,
acceptable to the Bank, which it proposes to carry out under Section 1 of
the Project Annex, in accordance with the provisions of Section 1 of the
Schedule to the Project Agreement during Fiscal Years 1994, 1995 and 1996.
    (c)   The Haouz ORMVA, the Moulouya ORMVA, the Ouarzazate ORMVA, the
Souss-Massa ORMVA and the Tafilalet ORMVA shall each have employed the
consultants referred to in Section 6 (a) of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of said Section.
Page  7
    Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within
the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included
in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the
Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the ORMVAs, and
is legally binding upon the ORMVAs in accordance with its terms.
    Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministere des Finances
          Rabat
          Royaume du Maroc
          Cable address:                        Telex:
                MINFIN                            36715 M
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                        Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                         248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.                   82987 (FTCC)
                                                   64145 (WUI) or
                                                  197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                       KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                       By /s/ Mohamed Benaissa
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  8
                       By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                             Middle East and North Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated             % of
                                (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                        Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                    1,100,000          86%
(2) Equipment and                           )         100% of foreign
    vehicles for:                           )         expenditures,
                                            )         100% of local
    (a) Part A of                  6,400,000)         expenditures
        the Project                         )         (ex-factory
                                            )         cost) and 65%
    (b) Part B of                           )         of local
        the Project                  140,000)         expenditures for
                                            )         other items
                                            )         procured locally
(3) Consultants'                            )
    services and                            )
    training for:                           )
                                            )
    (a) Part A of                  8,400,000)         100%
        the Project                         )
                                            )
    (b) Part B of                    900,000)
        the Project                         )
                                Amount of the
                               Loan Allocated              % of
                               (Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(4) Incremental                   5,600,000           80% during Fiscal
    operating costs                                   Years 1994 and
    under Part A of                                   1995; 50% during
    the Project                                       Fiscal Years 1996
                                                      and 1997; and
                                                      25% during each
                                                      Fiscal Year
                                                      thereafter
(5) Unallocated                   2,460,000
                                 __________
    TOTAL                        25,000,000
                                 ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures (i) in the
currency of the Borrower or (ii) for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
Page  9
    (c)   the term "Incremental Recurrent Expenditures" means materials,
fuel and spare parts for vehicles, field trial inputs, demonstration
activities and travel allowances.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $2,500,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after March 1, 1993.
4.  The Bank, after consultation with the Borrower, may require that
withdrawals from the Loan Account be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure for such expenditures and under such terms and conditions as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to strengthen the institutional
capabilities and operational efficiency of the ORMVAs and of agricultural
producers' organizations, and to increase agricultural productivity and
incomes of farmers in irrigated and adjacent rain-fed areas serviced by the
ORMVAS.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time
to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:  ORMVAs
(1)       Doukkala ORMVA
    (a)   The carrying out by the Doukkala ORMVA of the activities included
in the Project Annex.
    (b)   The development and carrying out of a program to improve the
organization and management of the Doukkala ORMVA, and strengthen its
operations, including the provision of training to the staff of said ORMVA.
(2)       Gharb ORMVA
    (a)   The carrying out by the Gharb ORMVA, of the activities included
in the Project Annex.
    (b)   The development and carrying out of a program to improve the
organization and management of the Gharb ORMVA, and strengthen its
operations, including the provision of training to the staff of said ORMVA.
(3)       Haouz ORMVA
    (a)   The development and carrying out of a program to improve the
organization and management of the Haouz ORMVA, and strengthen its
operations, including the provision of training to the staff of said ORMVA.
    (b)   The carrying out by the Haouz ORMVA, upon completion of the
program referred to in Part A (3) (a) of this Schedule, of the activities
included in the Project Annex.
(4)       Loukkos ORMVA
    (a)   The carrying out by the Loukkos ORMVA, of the activities included
in the Project Annex.
    (b)   The development and carrying out of a program to improve the
organization and management of the Loukkos ORMVA, and strengthen its
operations, including the provision of training to the staff of said ORMVA.
(5)       Moulouya ORMVA
    (a)   The development and carrying out of a program to improve the
organization and management of the Moulouya ORMVA, and strengthen the
Page  10
operations, including the provision of training to the staff of said ORMVA.
    (b)   The carrying out by the Moulouya ORMVA, upon completion of the
program referred to in Part A (5) (a) of this Schedule, of the activities
included in the Project Annex.
(6)       Ouarzazate ORMVA
    (a)   The development and carrying out of a program to improve the
organization and management of the Ouarzazate ORMVA, and strengthen its
operations, including the provision of training to the staff of said ORMVA.
    (b)   The carrying out by the Ouarzazate ORMVA, upon completion of the
program referred to in Part A (6) (a) of this Schedule, of the activities
included in the Project Annex.
(7)       Souss-Massa ORMVA
    (a)   The development and carrying out of a program to improve the
organization and management of the Souss-Massa ORMVA, and strengthen its
operations, including the provision of training to the staff of said ORMVA.
    (b)   The carrying out by the Souss-Massa ORMVA, upon completion of the
program referred to in Part A (7) (a) of this Schedule, of the activities
included in the Project Annex.
(8)       Tadla ORMVA
    (a)   The carrying out by the Tadla ORMVA, of the activities included
in the Project Annex.
    (b)   The development and carrying out of a program to improve the
organization and management of the Tadla ORMVA, and strengthen its
operations, including the provision of training to the staff of said ORMVA.
(9)       Tafilalet ORMVA
    (a)   The development and carrying out of a program to improve the
organization and management of the Tafilalet ORMVA, and strengthen its
operations, including the provision of training to the staff of said ORMVA.
    (b)   The carrying out by the Tafilalet ORMVA, upon completion of the
program referred to in Part A (9) (a) of this Schedule, of the activities
included in the Project Annex.
Part B:   Borrower
(1)    The establishment and operation of a unit within the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture and Agricultural Development to be responsible for
overall coordination of the Project, and provision of logistical support
required therefor.
(2)    (a)   Definition of appropriate financing mechanisms for the
chambers of agriculture, and the development of a legal framework for
farmers' associations designed to strengthen the organization, management
and operations of said organizations; and (b) the carrying out of studies
to identify, evaluate and recommend programs to be carried out by the ORMVAs
under Section 5 of the Annex to this Schedule so as to: (i) improve the
efficient production and marketing of agricultural goods and (ii) increase
the effective participation of said organizations in the carrying out of
adaptive research activities and in the provision of agricultural extension
services to farmers.
(3)    The carrying out of studies to introduce appropriate user fees for
agricultural research, extension and training services provided by the
ORMVAs under the Project.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
                            ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Page  11
1.  Adaptive Research.
    The development and carrying out of a program of adaptive research to
test the adaptability to the environmental conditions of the ORMVA's
respective Perimeter of technology designed to improve the production of
selected crops and of livestock and to improve on-farm water management; and
the construction and/or upgrading of research stations and provision of
training and equipment required for the carrying out of said research
program.
2.  Agricultural Extension.
    The carrying out of a program to strengthen the capabilities of the
ORMVA in the planning, provision, monitoring and evaluation of agricultural
extension services within its respective Perimeter, consisting of:
    (a)   the carrying out, in consultation with farmers in the ORMVA's
respective Perimeter, of diagnostic studies to identify, evaluate and
recommend measures to address specific problems confronted by said farmers
in connection with crop and livestock production and on-farm water
management;
    (b)   the development, on the basis of the recommendations of the
studies carried out under Section 2 (a) of this Annex, and the carrying out
of annual programs of agricultural extension services to be provided by the
ORMVA within its Perimeter through, inter alia, mass media, extension
activities and farm management advice for selected farming enterprises; and
the provision of training and equipment required therefor;
    (c)   the development and application of policies and procedures to
monitor and evaluate the carrying out of the agricultural extension services
programs included in Section 2 (b) of this Annex; and
    (d)   the construction and furnishing of office facilities and the
provision of computer hardware and software, audio visual equipment and
other equipment and vehicles required to enable the ORMVA to carry out the
activities included in Sections 2 (a) through 2 (c) of this Annex.
3.  Program for Women.
    (a)   The carrying out of studies of the role of women farmers in the
ORMVA's respective Perimeter, in order to identify, evaluate and recommend
extension services and pilot projects tailored to support the needs of said
farmers.
    (b)   The development, on the basis of the studies carried out under
Section 3 (a) of this Annex, and carrying out of a program of extension
services and pilot demonstration projects tailored to support the needs of
women farmers in the ORMVA's respective Perimeter; and the provision of
office facilities, equipment and training required therefor.
4.  Supporting Services.
    (a)   Soils Analysis. The carrying out of analyses of nutrient levels
in, and fertilizer needs of, soils of the ORMVA's respective Perimeter and
provision of training to the ORMVAs; and the provision of facilities and
equipment for selected ORMVAs required therefor.
    (b)   Agro-meteorology. The provision of meteorological equipment to
obtain data from the ORMVA's respective Perimeter, required for proper
irrigation scheduling and pest and greenhouse management; and the provision
of training in the use of said equipment.
    (c)   Pest Management. The development and operation of a warning
network in respect of pest infections, designed to facilitate proper
integrated pest management in the ORMVA's respective Perimeter; and the
provision of training and vehicles required therefor.
    (d)   Small Farm Equipment. The carrying out of a program to test and
demonstrate equipment and tools designed to improve the productivity of
small farms in the ORMVA's respective Perimeter.
Page  12
5.  Farmers' Organizations.
    (a)   The development, on the basis of the recommendations of the study
carried out by the Borrower under Part B (2) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and carrying out of a program to strengthen the organization,
management and operations of Farmers' Organizations in the ORMVA's
respective Perimeter, so as to improve the efficient production and
marketing of agricultural goods and increase the effective participation of
said organizations in the carrying out of adaptive research activities and
in the provision of agricultural extension services to farmers in the
ORMVA's respective Perimeter; and the provision of training, equipment and
facilities required therefor.
    (b)   The development and carrying out of a program to prepare the ORMVA
for divestiture of its activities relating to the management of land reform
cooperatives.
6.  Monitoring and Evaluation.
    Development and carrying out of a monitoring and evaluation system
designed to enable the ORMVA to monitor and evaluate, in accordance with
appropriate indicators, the development of the Project and agriculture
within its respective Perimeter, including the provision of vehicles and
equipment required therefor.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                    Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
August 1, 1999                           465,000
February 1, 2000                         485,000
August 1, 2000                           505,000
February 1, 2001                         520,000
August 1, 2001                           540,000
February 1, 2002                         560,000
August 1, 2002                           580,000
February 1, 2003                         605,000
August 1, 2003                           625,000
February 1, 2004                         650,000
August 1, 2004                           675,000
February 1, 2005                         700,000
August 1, 2005                           725,000
February 1, 2006                         750,000
August 1, 2006                           780,000
February 1, 2007                         810,000
August 1, 2007                           840,000
February 1, 2008                         870,000
August 1, 2008                           900,000
February 1, 2009                         935,000
August 1, 2009                           970,000
February 1, 2010                       1,005,000
August 1, 2010                         1,045,000
February 1, 2011                       1,080,000
August 1, 2011                         1,120,000
February 1, 2012                       1,165,000
August 1, 2012                         1,205,000
February 1, 2013                       1,250,000
August 1, 2013                         1,300,000
February 1, 2014                       1,340,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as
    of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections
    3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
Page  13
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
    Time of Prepayment                               Premium
                                           The interest rate (expressed as a
                                           percentage per annum) applicable to
                                           the Loan on the day of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                               0.15
    before maturity
More than three years but                               0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                                 0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                              0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity
More than 16 years but not                              0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity
More than 18 years before                               1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the
Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price.  Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part
A, the Borrower (or the ORMVA, as the case may be) shall use the relevant
standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued
by the Bank, the Borrower (or the ORMVA, as the case may be) shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Bank.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in the Kingdom of Morocco may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1
Page  14
through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
Local Competitive Bidding.
1.  Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or less per
contract, and goods (other than vehicles and laboratory, computer and audio-
visual equipment) estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or less per
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
Local Shopping.
2.  Goods (other than vehicles and laboratory, computer and audio-visual
equipment) estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or less per contract,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $500,000 or more, and with respect to each contract for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply
to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.     Employment of Consultants
1.  Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded to
consultants:
    (a)   whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; and
    (b)   who shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).For complex, 
time-based assignments, the Borrower (or the ORMVA, as the case
may be) shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard
form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower (or
the ORMVA, as the case may be) shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
Page  15
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this
exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts or to the employment of individuals, to single source
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Bank or to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
    The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
1.  Project Coordination.
    In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, the Borrower
shall establish under Part B (1) of the Project, and thereafter at all times
maintain, a unit within its Ministry of Agriculture and Agricultural
Development, with terms of reference, staffing and facilities satisfactory
to the Bank, to be responsible for the overall coordination of the Project.
2.  Part A of the Project.
    (a)   For the purpose of carrying out Part A of the Project, the
Borrower shall:
          (i)   make available to the ORMVAs on a grant basis the proceeds
                of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1),
                (2) (a), (3) (a) and (4);
         (ii)   (A) cause the ORMVAs to perform all their respective
                obligations set forth in the Project Agreement, (B) take or
                cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
                funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary
                or appropriate to enable the ORMVAs to perform such
                obligations, and (C) not take or permit to be taken any
                action which would prevent or interfere with such
                performance; and
    (b)   The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of each ORMVA's respective Part of the Project
shall be carried out by said ORMVA pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
    (c)   The Borrower, through the Department responsible for crop
protection within its Ministry of Agriculture and Agricultural Development,
shall conclude, not later than December 31, 1994, and thereafter at all
times maintain arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with each ORMVA,
designed to facilitate the development and operation by the ORMVAs of the
pest infection warning network and the adoption of integrated pest
management referred to in Section 4 (c) of the Project Annex.
    (d)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   establish charges for the soils analysis services provided
                by the ORMVAs under Section 4 (a) of the Project Annex
                which would allow said ORMVAs, under conditions of
                efficient operation at reasonable levels of capacity
                utilization, to cover their operating costs related to said
                services, earn an adequate return on funds invested for
                said purposes, meet their financial obligations in respect
                thereof, and make a reasonable contribution to future
                investment for expansion of capacity in respect of soils
                analysis services;
Page  16
         (ii)   on the basis of forecasts prepared by each ORMVA and
                satisfactory to the Bank, prepare and furnish to the Bank
                not later than November 30 in each Fiscal Year, a proposed
                schedule of charges for the next Fiscal Year which is
                designed to meet the objectives set forth in paragraph (a)
                of this Section; and
        (iii)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
                with the ORMVAs on said schedule, and thereafter, promptly
                establish charges for soils analysis services, taking into
                account the Bank's comments on said schedule.
3.  Part B of the Project.
    (a)   Under Part B (2) of the Project, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   (A) employ consultants, not later than September 30, 1994,
                in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule
                4 to this Agreement, to assist the Borrower in carrying out
                the study to develop the programs, referred to in Part B
                (2) (b) of the Project, to improve agricultural
                productivity and increase the participation by the chambers
                of agriculture in the carrying out of adaptive research and
                the provision of agricultural extension; (B) furnish the
                Bank a copy of said study, promptly upon its completion,
                together with the recommendations thereon; (C) afford the
                Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
                Borrower and the ORMVAs on said study and recommendations;
                and (D) thereafter, take all action required on its part to
                enable the ORMVAs to implement such recommendations based
                on said study as shall have been agreed between the
                Borrower, the Bank and the ORMVAs;
         (ii)   (A) prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than
                December 31, 1994, a proposed financing mechanism designed
                to strengthen the operations of chambers of agriculture,
                and not later than June 30, 1995, a proposed legal
                framework to govern farmers' associations, in both cases,
                so as to enable said organizations to assist in improving
                agricultural productivity and to participate effectively in
                the carrying out of adaptive research and the provision of
                agricultural extension services; (B) afford the Bank a
                reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower
                on said frameworks and arrangements; and (C) thereafter,
                promptly take all action required on its part to introduce
                and apply said frameworks and arrangements, taking into
                account the comments of the Bank thereon.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   ensure that the user fee studies included in Part B (3) of
                the Project shall be completed and furnished to the Bank
                not later than December 31, 1995, together with the
                recommendations based thereon; and
         (ii)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
                with the Borrower on said studies and recommendations, and
                thereafter, promptly carry out said recommendations, taking
                into account the comments thereon agreed with the Bank.
4.  Mid-term Review.
    The Borrower shall:
    (a)   maintain or cause to be maintained, operational procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate, in accordance with
appropriate indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, the
carrying out of the Project;
    (b)   review each report furnished to it by the ORMVAs pursuant to
Section 7 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, promptly upon receipt
thereof;
Page  17
    (c)   prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than December 31, 1996,
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the conclusions and recommendations indicated by the monitoring
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this
Section 4, and on the review carried out pursuant to sub-paragraph (b) of
this paragraph 4, together with the reports furnished to it by the ORMVAs,
and any actions proposed to be taken to further the progress in the carrying
out of the Project; and
    (d)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower and the ORMVAs on said reports, and thereafter, promptly take
all action which the Borrower and the Bank shall have agreed to be required
on the Borrower's part to further the progress in the carrying out of the
Project.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and
(4);
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
                Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
                specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
                required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
                shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been
                shown by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
Page  18
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account
in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as
the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
