CONFORMED COPY
0
CREDIT NUMBER 227 ES
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fifth Power Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 13, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 227 ES
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fifth Power Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 13, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 13, 1971, between REPUBLIC OF EL
SALVADOR (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by Comision Ejecutiva Hidroel6ctrica
del Rio Lempa with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to Comisi6n Ejecutiva Hidroelectrica del Rio Lempa
the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and Comisi6n Ejecutiva Hidroel6ctrica del Rio
Lempa;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Section 5.01 thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "CEL" means Comisibn Ejecutiva Hidroel6ctrica del Rio Lempa;


﻿4
(b)   "Project Agreemcnt" means the agreement between the Association
and CEL of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement; and
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and CEL pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million six hundred thousand dollars
($5,600,000). The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account by CEL acting on behalf of the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of
Section 9.02 of this Agreement, as provided in, and subject to the rights of
cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Agreement and the General Conditions.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any cour 'y which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods pro&uced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1973 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each


﻿5
April 15   and.   October 15   commencing     April 15, 1981   and   ending
October 15, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on
October 15, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Sc -tion 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE Ill
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall causL CEL to carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
engineering, financial and public utility practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to CEL under
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and CEL
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association,
and which shall, without limitation, provide for CEL (i) to pay to the Borrower
a commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount so relent and not withdrawn by CEL from
time to time, (ii) to pay to the Borrower interest at the rate of seven and one-quarter
per cent (7-1/4%) per annum on the principal amount so relent and withdrawn
by CEL and outstanding from time to time, and (iii) to repay to the Borrower
the principal amount so relent over a period of 20 years from the date of this
Agreement, including therein a period of grace of two and one-half years.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to
in Section 2.04 (a) of the Project Agreement.


﻿6
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall use its best efforts to cause independent
auditors acceptable to the Association to be appointed as CEL's auditors for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall from time to time take or cause to be
taken all measures required on its part to enable CEL to make such adjustments
in its rates for the sale of electricity as may be necessary to meet the requirements
of Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by CEL of its obligations under the Project Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of CEL and of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request


﻿7
concerning the operations and financial condition of CEL and of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof, or the performance
by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement
or the performance by CEL of its obligations under the Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all plants, sites, works,
property and equipment of CEL and to visit any part of the territories of the
Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
O         the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately


﻿8
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   A default shall occur in the performance of any obligation on the
part of CEL under the Project Agreement and such default shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and CEL.
(b)   CEL shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been taken by CEL or by others whereby
any of the property of CEL shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
(c)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CEL or for the
suspension of its operations.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
CEL shall have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and CEL, respectively, shall have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, CEL, and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of CEL in accordance with its terms.


﻿9
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower
and CEL, respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation
of the Borrower and CEL in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date of April 30, 1971 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01, 4.02
and 5.02 (a) of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
of Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Ministro de Hacienda of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The Borrower irrevocably designates CEL its agent for the
purpose of taking any action required or permitted under Sections 2.01 and 2.02
of this Agreement, and under Section 3.01 and Article V of the General Conditions.
Section 9.03. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministro de Hacienda
Ministerio de Hacienda
San Salvador, El Salvador
and
Secretario Ejecutivo del Consejo Nacional
de Planificaci6n y Coordinaci6n Economica
(CONAPLAN)
San Salvador, El Salvador


﻿10
Cable address:
MINHACIENDA
San Salvador
and
CONAPLAN
San Salvador
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
By /s/ Colonel Julio A. Rivera
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each
category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                         Dollar Equivalent)
I.    (a)   Gas turbine plant                               3,360,000
(b)   Transmission line                                1,380,000
II.   Engineering services                                    460,000
III.  Unallocated                                             400,000
TOTAL                     5,600,000
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(c)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof.
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A
The supply and erection of a gas turbine plant at the Soyapango Substation
comprising two gas turbine units of about 16.5 Megawatt each.
Part B
The supply and installation of a 115 kilovolt transmission line between San
Rafael Cedros and San Miguel.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1973.


