                                            Document of
                                         The World Bank



                                                                             Report No: 26753-IN
                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                 PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                               ON A

                                         PROPOSED LOAN

                                INTHE AMOUNT OF US240.0 million

                                                 TO

                                   THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA

                                              FOR THE

                                  ALLAHABAD BYPASS PROJECT

                                        SEPTEMBER 9,2003




Energyand InfrastructureUnit
India CountryManagementUnit
South Asia RegionalOffce

7-                                                                                              I
 This document has a restricteddistributionand may be usedby recipientsonly inthe performance
 of their officialduties. Its contents may notbe otherwisedisclosedwithout World Bank
 Authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective July 7, 2003)

                          Currency Unit = IndianRupee (INR)
                                INR1.OO = US$0.021
                                US$l.OO = INR46.90

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                 April 1  --March 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABP     Allahabad Bypass Project
ADB     Asian DevelopmentBank
BOT     Build, Operate andTransfer
CAS     CountryAssistance Strategy
CAG     Comptroller andAuditor General
CRF     CentralRoadFund
EA      Environmental Assessment
EMP     Environmental ManagementPlan
EOP     Endof Project
ERR     Economic Rateof Return
ESW     Economic and Sector Work
FMS     FinancialManagementSystem
GO1     Government of India
GTRIP   GrandTrunk RoadImprovementProject
ICB     InternationalCompetitiveBidding
ICR     ImplementationCompletionReport
MOEF    Ministry of Environment and Forests
MORTH   Ministry of RoadTransport and Highways
MTR     Mid-tennReview
NGO     Non GovernmentalOrganization
NHAI    NationalHighwaysAuthority of India
NHDP    NationalHighwayDevelopment Program
NPV     Net Present Value
PAF     ProjectAffectedFamily
PFMS    Project FinancialManagementSystem
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
RAP     ResettlementAction Plan
ROW     Rightof Way
R&R     Resettlementand Rehabilitation
SPCB    State PollutionControl Board
STD     Sexually TransmittedDisease
TNHP    Third NationalHighway Project
UP      Uttar Pradesh

                          Vice President:   Praful C. Pate1
             Country ManagedDirector:       Michael F. Carter
               Sector Managermirector:      Guang Zhe Chen
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Zhi Liu

                                                                        FOROFFICIAL,USEONLY

                                                       INDIA
                                        ALLAHABAD BYPASS PROJECT


                                                    CONTENTS




     A. Project Development Objective                                                         Page

         1. Project development objective                                                       2
         2. Key performance indicators                                                          2

     B. Strategic Context

         1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
         2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
         3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                   4

     C. Project Description Summary

         1. Project components
         2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
         3. Benefits and target population
         4. Institutional and implementation arrangements

     D.Project Rationale

         1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
         2. Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies
         3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
         4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
         5. Value added o f Bank support in this project

      E. Summary Project Analysis

         1. Economic                                                                            10
         2. Financial                                                                           10
         3. Technical                                                                           11
         4. Institutional                                                                       11
         5 . Environmental                                                                      12
         6. Social                                                                              14
         7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  16

      F. Sustainability and Risks

         1. Sustainability                                                                      17



This document hasa restricteddistributionandmay beusedby recipients only in
the performanceof their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
lwithoutWorld Bank authorization.

  2. Critical risks                                                                     17
  3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     17


G. Main LoanConditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           18
  2. Other                                                                              18

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                          18

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                            19



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         20
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   22
Annex 3:   Estimated Project Costs                                                      23
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          24
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-EarningProject Entities, or Financial Summary    28
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                   29
           (B)Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                        35
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    39
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                   40
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                41
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           45
Annex 11: Environment & Social Assessment, EMP and RAP                                  47




MAP(S)

India: Allahabad Bypass Project

                                                        INDIA
                                               Allahabad BypassProject
                                           Project AppraisalDocument
                                               South Asia Regional Office
                                                        SASE1

late: September 9,2003                                     Team Leader: Zhi Liu
Sector ManagedDirector: GuangZhe Chen                      Sector(s): Roadsandhighways (100%)
Zountry ManagedDirector: Michael F. Carter                 Theme(s): Infrastructureservices for privatesector
'roject ID: PO73776                                        development (P), Other financial andprivate sector
,ending Instrument: Specific InvestmentLoan (SIL)          development(SI, public expenditure, financial management
                                                           andprocurement (S)
Project Financing Data
 [XI Loan               [ ] Credit  [ ] Grant   [ ] Guarantee        [ ]Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Loan Currency: UnitedStates Dollar
Amount (US$m): 240.00
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File:          Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable-Spread Loan (VSL)
Grace period (years): 5                                   Years to maturity:20
Commitment fee: 0.75%                                     Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
                ing Plan (US$m):   Source                               Local
BORROWER                                                                  80.20              0.00            80.20
[BRD                                                                     153.05             86.95          240.00
rotal:                                                                   233.25   I         86.95   I      320.20
Borrower: GOVERNMENTOF INDIA
Responsible agency: NATIONAL HIGHWAYS AUTHORITY OF INDIA
Address: NationalHighwaysAuthority of India,PlotNo. G5 & G6, Sector 10, Dwarka,New Delhi
ContactPerson: Nirmaljit Singh, Member (Technical)
Tel: 91-11-2509-3523, 91-11-2507-4100                    Fax: 91-11-2509-3507                Email: nhai@vcnl.com
EstimatedDisbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):




Project implementation period: Fiveyears
Expected effectivenessdate: 01/15/2004         Expected closing date: 03/31/2009
cs "ADiDl"lli." mm.m

A. Project DevelopmentObjective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Allahabad Bypass Project (ABP) aims to (i) transport constraints on national economic
                                                    reduce
activity, and (ii)
                 improve institutional capabilities to manage roadprograms, assets, and services on a more
commercial basis. Iti s the thirdBank loan to support the Government o f India's (GOI) National Highway
Development Program (NHDP), which aims to upgrade 13,000 kmo f core national highways network by
2007. The first two loans, namely the ThirdNational Highway Project (TNHP) and Grand Trunk Road
Improvement Project (GTRIP), were approved inJune 2000 and June 2001, respectively. All three
projects finance the upgrading o f National Highway 2 between Delhi and Kolkata (with the ABP taking up
the last remaining stretch of 84.7 km), and support institutional strengthening actions under an institutional
development framework agreedwith the borrower.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The performance indicators to measurethe achievement o f development objective by end of project (EOP)
include: (i) vehicle travel time along the project comdor reduced by at least 30% by EOP; (ii)    truck
operating costs reduced by at least 10%by EOP; (iii)     increased private sector participation inthe
operations and maintenance o fnational highways; (iv) road safety records improved on project roads; and
(v) user satisfaction surveys conducted regularly. The performance indicators used during project
implementation include: (i)   civil work contracts including Environmental Management Plans delivered to
time, budget, cost and safety requirements; (ii) Resettlement Action Planimplemented on time and
satisfactorily; and(iii)roaduser satisfaction surveys implementedaccording to agreed timetable and in
expected effect.

B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Documentnumber: R2001-0037/1[IFC/R2001-0037111 Date of latest CAS discussion: 4/5/2001

The CAS identifies highway infrastructure bottlenecks as one ofthe major constraints to poverty reduction
andprivate sector-led growth. The project supportsthe CAS sector goal of reducing highway
infrastructure bottlenecks. It is also designed to contribute to the two important areas emphasized by the
CAS: (i)  improving government capability andeffectiveness to deliver core public services that are vital for
economic growth andpoverty reduction; and (ii)      promoting private sector-led growththrough provision o f
adequate infrastructure. The bypass i s part o f a trunk national highway passing through the states o f Uttar
Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand which are among the less developed states inIndia. The project i s expected
to help enhance the ability of these states to participate inthe economic growth and trade that is taking
place to a larger extent elsewhere inIndia.

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:

With a total length o f 58,100 km, the national highway network is dividedinto two parts, the NHDP
(13,000 km) andnon-NHDP (about 45,000 km),which are managedby the National Highways Authority
o f India (NHAI) andthe Ministryo f RoadTransport & Highways (MORTH),respectively. NHAIwas
established under the NHAIAct o f 1988, and was entrusted by GO1to implement the NHDP in 1998. The
management o f non-NHDP network remains with MORTH who has long beenresponsible for the national
highways mainly through delegating considerable responsibilities to state public works departments. The
national highway network accounts for about 1.8% o f the total roadnetwork but carries over 40% o f the



                                                       - 2 -

total roadtraffic. Despite its obvious importance inIndia's economy, the performance o f national highways
has beenpoor by internationalstandards due primarilyto the following main sector issues, which are also
examined inthe latest Economic and Sector Work (ESW), India's Transport Sector: The Challenges
Ahead,publishedinMay 2002:
         Serious road capacity constraints on the core national highways network. With steady
         economic growth duringthe last 12 years, traffic on the national highways have increased 6 to
         7.5% a year. The trunk national highways are increasingly congested. However, over 90% o f the
         national highways are two-lane or narrower roads.

         Poor management of road infrastructure services. The level o f service on national highways is
         further worsened by the mixedtraffic offast and slow vehicles, and encroachment activities on the
         rights-of-way (especially those passing through urban and semi-urban areas). It takes 4 to 5 days
         for a truck to go one way between Delhiand Kolkata (about 1,400 km). The poor driving
         condition due to mixedtraffic on the two-lane national highways i s a major contributing factor to
         traffic accidents. The death rate per 10,000 vehicles inIndia i s around 10 times the levels seen in
         European Union, and 38% o f the road accidents in India occur on national highways.

         Inadequate institutional capacity for the development, management and operation of national
         highways. While institutional capacity has been significantly developed duringrecent years, there
         are areas that require major improvement. It i s widely recognizedthat Indianeeds an expressway
         system to meet the growing roadtransport demand, but previous studies and proposals didnot go
         beyondthe conceptual level. Detailedalignment planningfor the core expressway network is much
         needed. The user-responsiveness mechanism remains to be built into the national highway
         management system. And skills to manage andmodernize the road construction industry need to
         be developed.

         Limited private sector participation in road financing. The financial requirements for increasing
         national highway capacity through 4-laning, 6-laning, and expressway constructionare enormous,
         and exceed the funds that couldbe raised by the public sector. Currently, the major public funding
         comes from a dedicated Central RoadFund(CRF) with revenues from a fuel cess (tax). The
         allocation to national highways amounts to just Rs. 2000 crores a year, far below the funding level
         required. Private sector financing is evolving but still limited. While NHAIhasreached financial
         closure for some annuity-based Build, Operate and Transfer (BOT) projects and created 12 Special
         Purpose Vehicles to raise funds, various modalities o f private sector financing and Public-Private
         Partnerships needto be tested and applied to cover more projects.

Government strategy. The NHDP is the center piece o f GO1strategy to remove national highway
capacity constraints on economic growth. The cost o f the program i s US$12 billion over eight years
(ending in2007), and funding sources include government grants, fuel levies, tolls, bonds, private
investments, and loans from internationaldevelopment banks. In 1999, GO1established the CRF through a
cess o f Rs. 1per litre each on petrol and diesel, and earmarked a substantial portion o f the CRF for
national highway development, maintenance, and operation. GO1also amended the National Highway Act
and developed policy guidelines to permit private financing o f highways. In2002, GO1raised the fuel cess
to Rs. 1.5 per litre on both petrol and diesel. Road institutional reforms for more effective delivery o froad
infrastructure services are also part o f the government strategy. Before 1998, nearly all national highways
responsibilities, from policy andplanningto civil works implementation andmaintenance, restedwith
MORTH. Assigningthe NHDP to NHAIwas a major step towards the separation o f implementation
functions from the government policy-making. The NHAIAct requires NHAIto discharge its functions on
business principles as far as possible, and as a result, the agency has maintained a lean organization by
outsourcing most o f its activities to the private sector. With technical assistance from the Bank and ADB,



                                                       - 3 -

NHAIhastaken significant stepsto develop institutional capacity inthe directionofcommercial
management o f national highways.

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:

Inaddition to supporting nationalhighway capacity augmentation, the ABP will fundperformance-based
contract to the private sector for the operations and maintenance o f national highways, and support NHAI
to enhance its user-responsiveness. These are inline with the specific recommendations o f the transport
sector ESW completed in2002. Other sector issueshighlightedabove are being addressedthrough the
on-going TNHP and GTFUP. Moreover, the technical assistancefor expressway planning androad
constructionindustry training, which was proposed during the preparation o f ABP, will be implemented
under other Bank funded projects. The strategic choices for ABP, interms o f what public agencies to
support, what financing options to adopt, and what highway corridors to finance, were results o f the Bank
programmatic approach to supporting the NHDP and ajoint road sector assistance strategy with ADB. All
institutional actions supported under these three projects are defined under the same institutional
development framework agreedby NHAI,Bank, andADB.

C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (seeAnnex 2 for a detailed description andAnnex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):

Bypass construction: The component will fund the construction o f the 84.7 kmbypass, which is located
at the northern outskirts o f Allahabad City. The bypass will be an access controlled highway, with a 1km
bridge over the Ganga River. Toll plazas and rest areas will also be provided.

Corridor management: The component will fund the procurement o fprivate operators under performance
based contracts for the operations and maintenance o f Ahmedabad-Vadodra Expressway or selected
national highway stretches, and the procurement and installation o f toll collection systems and automatic
traffic management systems.
Institutional strengthening: This component will fknd independent and periodic surveys o f road users and
road sector stakeholders during the project period, to determine the level o f their awareness, involvement
and satisfaction with the delivery, management andoperation o fnational highways byNHAI.

                                                                 Indicative                   Bank-       % of
                          Component                                costs         % of      financing      Bank-
                                                                   (US$M)        Total       (US$M)     financing
  1. Bypass construction including supervision, land                296.30          92.5      221.26        92.2
 acquisition and resettlement, and environmental
 management.

 2. Corridor management                                              21.20            6.6       16.07        6.7

 3. Institutional strengthening                                       0.30            0.1        0.27        0.1



                                            Total Project Costs I   317.80   I      99.3  I   237.60   I    99.0
                                                  Front-endfee I      2.40 I          0.7 I      2.40 I      1.o
                                    Total Financing Required    I   320.20   I     100.0  I   240.00   I   100.0



                                                      - 4 -

2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supported by the project:

The main policies and institutional reforms supported under TNHP, GTRIP, ABP, as well as ADB's
Western Transport Corridor Project include: (i)    keeping the NHAIlean by outsourcingto the private sector
most o fNHAI'sfunctions related to design, construction, maintenance, and operations; (ii)      making NHAI
more responsive and accountable to users and stakeholders; (iii)     making NHAImore autonomous and
financially independent; and (iv) leveraging NHAI's limitedresources with private financing of highways
through public-private partnership. Specifically, TNHP supports NHAI's capacity buildinginthe areas o f
project implementation, accountability, strategic planning and asset management. GTRIP focuses on
private sector participation, road safety, and social and environmental safeguard management. ABP will
support NHAIto further develop user responsivenessmechanism.

3. Benefits and target population:

The major benefits include: (i)reduction intransport costs, which will directly lower the economic costs
                                a
o f goods and services, widenmarkets, and promote regional trade and private business growth; (ii)       a
reduction o f motor vehicle pollution and traffic accidents inthe built-uparea o f Allahabad city; (iii)
improved efficiencies inthe utilization o fpublic resources inthe form o f higher level o f output per unit
agency cost; and (iv) greater participation o f private sector inthe provisiono f highway infrastructure and
services.
The project will benefit the users o f the national highways, the city o f Allahabad, andrural areas directly
served by the project road, mostly inthe form of: (i)    reduced transport costs and travel time; (ii)increased
accessibility to markets, resources,jobs, education, and health services; (iii)  improved security against
economic shocks through access to alternative jobs and to emergency services; and (iv) job opportunities
from the civil works during the project implementationandmaintenance.

4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements:

NHAIwill bethe implementingagency for the bypassconstruction, corridor management component, and
road user surveys. At the field level, an existing on-site Project Implementation Unit (PIU), which i s
implementingthe TNHP civil works near Allahabad, will also implementthe bypass. A high-level State
Project Coordinating Committee inUttar Pradesh,which has been functional for TNHP and GTRIP, will
facilitate landacquisition, resettlement, utility shifting, and tree cutting and re-plantation for the bypass.
Responsibility for land acquisition and resettlement and financing o f all project-related costs will remain
with NHAI.
NHAIhas decentralized accounting arrangements. At the field, the PWs manage contracts and
expenditures, coordinate day to day project activities, account for project transactions, and perform
financial management systemdata entry, authorization andpayment. All civil works are supervised by
independent professional construction supervision consultants. The contractor's bills are checked by the
consultants in addition to ensuring quality control. Bills are also checked by NHAItechnical and accounts
staff before making payments to contractors. A team o f finance professionals at the NHAIheadquarters
will coordinate the consolidationand submission o freimbursement claims for the project. A computerized
integrated financial management system (FMS) has been developed and functional. An internal audit
function has beenestablished. Project related expenditure will be scrutinized by the Comptroller and
Auditor General (CAG).




                                                        - 5 -

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives consideredand reasonsfor rejection:

Bwass alignments. The existing national highway stretch between the two ends o f the proposed bypass is
about 75 kmlong, with the middle section passing through the historical city of Allahabad. Motor vehicle
traffic level, measured in annual average daily traffic (AADT) varies from 7,900 to 27,800, plus a large
numberofnon-motorized vehicles (ranging from 2,800 to 17,600 AADT). Motor vehicle speeds range
from 27 to 50 kmper hour. The feasibility study considered 3 upgrading options along the existing
national highway (fully elevated, partially elevated, and at grade) and 6 bypass alignments (including one
southem alignment and five northem alignments). The southem bypass would have to cross the Yamuna
River andGanga River, and the five northem alignments are associated with the locations o f a bridge
across the Ganga River. The three options along the existing national highway were rejected due to
expected adverse environmental impact o f growing traffic on the city population as well as high costs of
elevated structure. A preferrednorthem bypass alignment was selected basedon a careful alignment
analysis and selection process that included public consultation inthe entire project area surrounding all
alignments. It i s estimated that more than 40% o f the current traffic, mainly trucks, will be divertedto the
bypass. Economic analysis shows that the bypass is economically viable (see Annex 4).
Tolled bypass. The bypass will be tolled in line with GOI's policy to toll the entire NHDP network after
upgrading. The decision on what toll system to adopt and when to implement it will be pending on the
tolling strategy under consideration by NHAI. The bypass engineering design will consider future toll
booths.
Private financing such as BOT for the bwass. It couldbe applied, but was rejected because GO1had
made a budget commitment to this priority stretch, scheduled to be completed by year 2005. India's
experience inBOT is limited. A BOT project would involve substantial uncertainties and therefore high
likelihoodfor delays.
Improvement o f existing national hiehwav stretch to serve Allahabad City. The bypass will carry a
substantial portion o f the traffic passing the city. After its opening, the existing national highway stretch
will be transferred to the local government. The project could support improvements on the stretch such as
bus lanes, bicycle lanes, andtraffic calming, but the idea was rejectedbecause substantial complication
would arise when both central and local governments are implementing one project under the current
jurisdiction system.

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                                      Latest Supervision
               Sector Issue                               Project                        (PSRI Ratings
                                                                                  (Bank-fjnance Drojects only)
                                                                                 Implementation    Development
 Bank-financed                                                                     Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)

 COMPLETED or ONGOING
 - Capacity expansion ofnational             Second National Highways                   S
 highways and institutional                  Project (Ln.3470, Cr.2365-IN),
 strengtheningo f MORTHandNHAI               ThirdNationalHighways
                                             Project (Ln.4559-IN), and
                                             Grand Trunk Road



                                                       - 6 -

                                          Improvement Project (Ln

- Enhancement                             4622-IN
                o f institutional capacity State Roads Infrastructure
to prepare projects at the state-level    Development Technical
                                          Assistance (Ln.4114-IN)
- Capacity expansion, maintenance and Andhra Pradesh State Highway
institutional development of state road   Project (Ln.4192-IN)
agency
                                          Gujarat State Highway Project
                                          (Ln45774"

                                          Kamataka State Highways
                                          Improvement Project (Ln
                                          4606-IN)

                                          Kerala State Transport Project
                                          (Ln.4653-IN)

                                          Mizoram State Roads Project
                                          (Cr. 3618-IN)

                                          Uttar Pradesh State Road
                                          Project (Ln.4684-IN)

                                          Tamil NaduRoad Sector
                                          Project (Ln.4706-IN)


IWidening and strengthening of two        Infrastructure Leasing &
itate roads inGujarat in a commercial     Financial Services (Ln
brmat: Vadodara - Halo1SH and             3992-IN; Cr. 2838-IN)
ihmedabad    - Mahesana    SH




'LANNED
 Capacity expansion and maintenance       Proposed state highways
ifstateroads and institutional            projects (FY2004-06)
levelopment o f state road agencies

 Capacity expansion o f national          Proposed Lucknow-
iighways andinstitutional strengthening Muzaffarpur National Highway
IfNHAIandMORTH                            Project

                                          ProposedNon-NHDP National
                                          Highway Project

                                                    National Highway
                                           orth-South Corridor Project



                                                    - 7 -

mprovement of rural access roads and ProposedRural Roads Project
nstitutional strengtheningof rural road
.gencies

iuture infrastructure lending project   ProposedProjectDevelopment
levelopment                             Facility
Xher development agencies
ONGOING
ADB    - Capacity  expansion of national FirstHighway Project, Second
highways and institutional              Highway Project, National
strengtheningofNHAIandMORTH             Highway Project, and
                                         Surat-Manor Tollway Project.

- Japanese  Bank for International       Yamuna Bridge Project,
Cooperation(formerly OECF) -             National Highway Project.
Capacity expansionofnational
highways and institutional
strengthening ofNHAIand MORTH

- ADB - TA     for preparation of        West Bengal, North-South
investmentplan and strategy for the      Corridor Development, 1998/95
north-southcorridor development in
West Bengal

ADB Capacity expansionof national WesternTransport Corridor
       -
highways and institutional               Project, 2001
strengtheningof NHAIandMORTH

PLANNED

ADB - Capacity expansionofnational Proposed
highways andinstitutional                National Highway Corridor I&
strengtheningofNHAIand MORTH             11,2002 and 2003

ADB    - Capacity  expansionof state     ProposedMadhya Pradesh
highways and institutional strengthening State Highway Project, 2002
o f state road agency
                                                                       (Highly Unsati:




                                                   - a -

3. Lessonslearnedandreflectedin the project design:

ABP is the thirdBank project inrecent years to support the NHDP and its implementing agency, NHAI.
Three main lessons are leamed from TNHP and GTRIP, ahdreflected inthe design o f ABP. First,
weaknesses have been identifiedinthe areas o f financial management and environmental and social
safeguard capacity during the preparation andimplementation o f the first two projects, andthese are being
addressedthrough on-going actions under these projects, from which ABP stands to benefit. Second, land
acquisition and the implementationo f Environmental Management Plan and Resettlement Action Plan o f
TNHP and GTRIP are beingclosely monitored and strengthened, and much stronger processesare adopted
for ABP. Third, the planned disbursement schedule takes into account the low-value work inthe first stage
o f constructionand high-value work in the secondphase.

4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:

The NHDP was proposedby the Prime Minister's Taskforce in 1998, and is GOI's top priority
infrastructure investment program. The Prime Ministerpersonally reviewed the implementation progress
on May 26,2000 and September 5,2001, and the Chairman o f Planning Commission and Minister o f Road
Transport & Highways also reviewed the progress regularly. NHAIhas demonstrated strong borrower
commitment and ownership through: (i)       the satisfactory progress made so far inthe implementation o f
TNHP and GTRIP; and (ii)      the agency'sperformance inthe improvement of institutional capabilities
during the last few years. The agency has made significant progress inthe procurement o f civil works and
consultant services, and inthe institutional arrangementfor implementing the project-related safeguard
policies. NHAIhas also made significant effort inthe preparation of the ABP, especially the bypass
alignment evaluationand selection, engineering design o f the bypass roads and bridge, and the land
acquisition.


5. Value addedof Bank support inthis project:

The most important contribution o f the Bank inthis sector i s the knowledge o f effective institutions,
policies, financing and implementationmechanisms inother parts o f the world, and experience with
economic, social, and environmental analyses o fproject. This project focuses on the strengths and
weaknesses o f current practices inthe sector, andwill mobilizetechnical expertise inexamining and testing
new approaches. Many o f the procedures which have beenput inplace duringthe preparationo f TNHP
and GTRIP are now being adopted by NHAIfor all of its project preparation activities, including
procurement, engineering, environment, land acquisition, resettlement, construction supervision and dispute
resolution practices. The Bank has been supportingNHAI's institutional development, and facilitating the
exchange o f information between central government, states and the private sector. Continued involvement
o f the Bank will facilitate institutional reforms in sound business management, accountability and
responsivenessto external stakeholders, improved road asset management andtraffic efficiency and safety,
and better planning, policy andregulations. The Bank's financial participationi s also important to the
implementation o f NHDP, before a more sustainable financial mechanism i s developed for national
highway development andmaintenance.




                                                        - 9 -

E. Summary ProjectAnalysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit         NPV=US$554 million; ERR= 32 % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 Other(specify)
Economic analysis was carried out for the bypass component, which constitutes 92% o f the total project
cost. Economic analysis was not performedfor the corridor management andinstitutional strengthening
components as they are small components and most o f their benefits are not quantifiable. The preliminary
cost-benefit analysis for the bypass construction was conducted as part o f the feasibility study that was
completed inAugust 1999. The analysis was based on the Highway Designand Maintenance Standards
Model (HDM-111)developed by the Bank. A more detailed cost-benefit analysis was conducted during
detailed engineering design to evaluate the alternative design and construction options (including a phased
construction with 2 lanes to be completed inthe first phase andanother 2 lanes some years later). The
analysis quantified the user benefits (mainly inthe form o f savings invehicle operating costs and travel
time costs) to the bypass traffic and to the local traffic remained inthe existing national highway section
through the city (due to reduced congestion). The traffic safety benefits due to reduced traffic were also
quantified. The results show that the full access control, 4-lane construction option with right o f way and
embankment provision for additional 2 lanes inthe future has an ERR o f 32%, and sensitivity analysis
indicatedthe robustness o f the economic viability o f the bypass under various scenarios.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = YO(see Annex 4)
NHDP i s the major expenditure program for the national highways till year 2008. It includes the upgrading
o f 13,000 kmcore national highways and its total costs are estimated to be US$12 billion. The funding
sources o f the implementingagency NHAIinclude fuel levies (cess), bonds, tolls, loans, and market
borrowingthrough Special Purpose Vehicles. Its primary source o f revenues is a fixed share allocation
from the Central Road Fund, amounting to Rs 2,000 crores (or equivalent o f US$416.0 million) in
2000/01, and is expected to increase with the size of the Fund. For externally financedprojects, NHAIwill
get 80% o f the external assistance as grant from GOI, and 20% as loan that NHAIwill be requiredto pay
back to GOI. All counterpart fundwill come from NHAI's fund. The Bank loan will be serviced byNHAI
from the toll revenues.
NHAIcurrently has few independent assets andlittle independent revenues. There will be a financial gap
between NHAI's current fund and the NHDP financial requirement. The gap is expected to be closed by
borrowing, tolls, bonds, and private investment. With the assistance from ADB, NHAIi s exploring various
financial instruments (including bond issues, securitization, and toll systems) that would enable the agency
to be more financially independent. So far, NHAIhas raised about Rs.930 crores (or equivalent of
US$194.0 million) through two bond issues. NHAI is also examining a market-oriented approach for
funding roadmaintenance, possibly through performance-based O&M contracts with the private sector.
The substantial investment to be supported under the project is unlikely to crowd out private fund for road
investment, as private roadfinancing is still at the experimental stage, and would not be mobilizedfast
enough to fund the urgentlyneededhighway capacity.

Fiscal Impact:

The fiscal impact ofthe project is expected to be minimal, as GO1has made budgetcommitment to the
NHDP basedon road user charges and necessarypolicy provision to NHAIto tap other financial sources.
Andthis budgetcommitment to the maintenance anddevelopment ofthe nationalhighways is made ina


                                                       - 10-

fixed portion o f the total cess revenueswhich are expected to grow with increasing consumption o f fuels.
The current cess revenues allocated to the entire national highway system (under MORTHand NHAI)
amount to US$750.0 million a year.

3. Technical:
The bypass will be a full-access controlled, 4-lane dividedcarriageway with 1.5 meter paved shoulders and
1meter earthedgravel shoulders on either side, and a 12mmedianwith an inner shoulder of 1meter. It
will have an embankment for 6 lanes divided carriageway, and the 1meter inner shoulder would become
part o f a lane to be added on either side inthe future. It will cross 60 village roads where underpassesare
proposed, 3 state highways where interchanges are proposed, and 3 railway lines where over bridges are
proposed. The Ganga bridge is proposed to be a continuous decked bridgewith 3 expansionjoints.
Pedestrian underpasses, service roads, bus stops, truck lay-byes and any other features are proposed
wherever requiredbased on public consultations. Road safety audit i s required for the engineeringdesign
before civil work implementation.

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:
NHAI'scapability to implementthe current project, including environment and social safeguardpolicies,
has been substantially strengthened through the preparationand implementation o f the TNHP and GTRIP,
and is considered adequate.
4.2 Project management:
NHAIhasmobilizeda strong team inheadquartersand on site to work closely with consultants and local
authorities duringproject preparation, and this will continue during the implementationphase. Additional
skills inland acquisition, environment, resettlement andrehabilitation (R&R), and financial management
are beingbuilt up.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Bank guidelines will apply to all goods andworks andall consultants' services financed under the project.
Through implementingTNHP and GTRIP, NHAI staff are fully conversant with Bank procurement
procedures. New staff dealing with procurement will be required to attend the training program conducted
by Administrative Staff College of India, HyderabadandNationalInstitute o f Financial Management,
Faridabad on Bank procurement procedures. Therefore no significant procurement issues are expected.
4.4 Financial management issues:
NHAIhas implementedatime-bound actionplanagreedduring GTRIP negotiations to address the major
weaknesses inits financial management systems (FMS), and developed adequate financial management
capacity. Through the implementation o f TNHP and GTRIP, NHAIhas been exposed to the Bank's
 disbursement procedures and financial reporting requirements, and its performance as an implementing
 entity asjudged from audit reports and disbursementshistory has beensatisfactory. There has been an
 issue o f timeliness o f audit reports. Delays inthe entity audit reports for NHAIhave occurred for two
 consecutive years. To address this issue, NHAIhas drawn up an action plan to help expedite the process
 o f compilation andaudit o f its entity accounts. This action plan includes discrete steps which will be taken
 byNHAIto help themcompile and submit their entity accounts to audit well before the Bank's 6 month
 deadline. The steps are increase inthe coverage o f PIUs under the Project FMS, increase inaccounting
 staff throughout the organization and issuanceo f guidelines about compilation o f accounts. NHAIhave
 also requested the CAG to establish a resident audit wing inthe Authority's office who will cany out an



                                                      - I 1 -

audit o f project expenditures concurrently so that the audit process may be timely. (see Annex 6(B) for
more details)
5. Environmental:                            Environmental Category: A (FullAssessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emergingfrom this analysis.
EA Process: The initial environmental screening andpreparation o f an Environmental Assessment (EA) for
the project were undertaken as part o f the TNHP preparation in 199718,where it was designated as
Package III-B. It was decided in2001 that the package would be funded under a separate loan from TNHP
and GTRIP. Since then, a separate EA has been carried out, and stand-alone EnvironmentalManagement
Plan (EMP) has been prepared for each o f the 3 contract packages (one o f which i s for the major bridge
over Ganga River). The EA and EMP reports and the overall EA process was reviewed andcompleted by
independent environment consultants in July 2003. The Bank also commissioned an independent
bio-diversity specialist during February-March 2003 to examine the potential bio-diversity impact o f the
bypass. The final EA reports incorporate the findings o f both the Independent Reviews. NHAIhas
obtained environment clearances requiredfor this project from the Ministryo f Environment and Forests,
GOI, and from the Uttar Pradesh State PollutionControl Board, and is inthe process o f getting the
Forestry Clearance from the Uttar Pradesh Department o f Forests.

S U " ~     o f kev environment issues, assessment o f impacts and mitigation measures: The main
environmental issues are: (i)  unavoidable conversion o f fertile agricultural landto the right o f way (ROW);
(ii)potential impediments to area level and local drainage as the major portion o f the bypass will be on a
fresh highembankment; (iii)    potential poorly planned or managed development inducedby the presence o f a
highquality transport facility; (iv) unavoidable removal and shifting ofcommunity assets from the entire
ROW and severance o f some communities; (v) possible impact on aquatic flora and fauna inthe river
Ganga; and(vi) constructionrelatedtemporary impacts such as dust from the haul roads and pollution
from the plants and machinery required for construction. These potential impacts will be avoided,
minimized and/or mitigated through sound management practices; appropriate scheduling o f construction to
minimize impacts on the river fauna, especially for the Ganga Bridge; all described in the EMPs, and
incorporated inthe project's designs. Some o f the community resources, either shifted or re-built,will be
enhanced on a case-to-case basis with commitment from local communities for their upkeep. Induced
development issues would be addressedthrough regular collaboration anddialogue with the local and state
authorities.

5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?
Self-contained EMPs for individualcontract packages are prepared for implementation by the contractors
during construction andby the NHAIduring operation. The EMPs provide an overview ofthe project, and
describe the salient features o f the project site and significant environmental issues for the respective
constructionpackage. Detailed mitigationand avoidance measures are specified, along with applicable
time frames, assignment o f responsibilities and an estimated budget, for both the construction and
operational phases. Specific mitigation/ enhancement measuresproposed inthe EMPs include the
following:
Use o f flv ash inembankment construction: The project will use 6.7 million cubic meters o f pond ash (a
suitable form o f fly ash) as fill material for the raised embankment, from the Firoz Gandhi Thermal Power
Plant at Unchhahar. This will lead to a significant positive environment impact. The EMPs include
measuresrequiredfor haulage, storage, handling o f the pond ash, and disposal o f residual pond ash, if any.
Management o f construction related impacts: This includes location guidelines and prescribed prevention
measures for hot-mix plants and construction camps. The identification, operation and, ifrequired,


                                                        - 1 2 -

rehabilitation measures for haul roads, borrow areas, sand mines inrivers have been provided. The
constructionschedule andprocedures recommended for river training (ifrequired, for the major bridge
across river Ganga) takes into account the seasonalmovement o f aquatic fauna, including the Gangetic
Dolphin. The responsibilities o f the environmental specialist o f the construction supervision consultants
will include specific requirements o f on-site supervision and monitoring o f these activities.
Relocationand enhancement o f communitv properties: This component is seen as an opportunity for the
NHAIto show their appreciation ofthe micro-environmentinwhichthenearby communities live. Though
few cultural properties will be impacted, some ponds and schools will be relocated during project
implementation. Wherever possible, the EMPs have built synergy with Bank-funded, on-going District
Primary Education Project for new school buildings. Concurrence o f the communities who are the
potential users is seen as a necessary condition and therefore all relocation andor enhancement will be
undertaken ina participatory manner, with a strong commitment towards upkeep o f the facilities created or
rebuilt.
Consultation with local authorities on land use: This will be taken up in the implementation stage, rather
than after the bypass becomes operational. Close coordination with the Allahabad Development Authority
andother local planning organizations on roadside development will beginwith the construction, and
continue well after the bypass opens to traffic.
Provision for adequate movement o fpeople and cross-drainage: This is part o f the engineering design. The
movement o fpeople and local traffic will be facilitated by more than 40 crossings throughout the bypass.
The provision of over 100adequately sized cross-drainage works (including pipe culverts, slab culverts,
andminor & major bridges) andadequately sized side drains will ensurethe minimumhindrance of
drainage inthe area, and will maintain the natural hydrological profile.
Compensation for tree loss: The bypass will be built as a 4-lane facility, with adequate embankment for
future wideningto a 6-lane road. Service lanes for local traffic will be provided, where required. Since the
area is predominantly agricultural, only 3298 trees are proposed to be felled. The loss will be compensated
by rows of trees to be plantedon both sides ofthe ROW. The plantation will follow NHAI's Tree
Plantation Strategy which is beingimplemented for TNHP and GTRIP.
Institutional arrangements: The EMPs identify the responsibilities for implementation and supervision o f
all envisaged measures. The PIU at Allahabad, which is implementingTNHP, will also be responsible for
the overall implementation o f the bypass. The PIU will be equippedwith a dedicated Environmental
Manager for this project. The NHAICorporate Office will provide guidance, support, and occasional
supervision. Duringthe constructionphase, the environmental specialist o f the construction supervision
consultants (procured through IntemationalCompetitive Bidding) will assist inthe implementationo f EMP
measures. Environmental awareness and training will be carried out during pre-construction and
implementation stages. Sufficient budgetary allocation has been made for these activities.

Summary assessment: The mitigation, enhancementand monitoring measures have been made part o f the
contract documents. These shouldbe adequate to address any potential adverse environmental impacts
generatedfrom the project.

5.3 For Category A andB projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                     Date o f receipt o f final draft: February 2003.
                                                      Independent Review Report February
                                                                                 -
                                                      2003
                                                      IndependentReviewo fBiodiversity
                                                      Aspects - March 2003
                                                      Public Disclosure April 2003
                                                                       -

                                                        -13-

                                                     EA Summary to Board April 18,2003
                                                                              -
                                                     Finalized EIA and EMPs     - July 2003


5.4 How have stakeholdersbeen consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The stakeholders were consulted formally and informally throughout the entire project preparation. The
consultations were mostly informalduring the environmental screening. The information gathering surveys
were conducted primarily through one-to-one discussions and short meetings with locally influential
persons. Other consultations included focus group discussions anddoor-to-door consultations by the social
team duringthe socioeconomic survey and census o f potentially affected persons. The issues raised at
these meetings and sessions were considered inthe project design. At the draft EA stage, the consultations
were more formal, and full environmental public hearings, inline with GO1requirements, were carried out
ineachdistrict where the alignment passes. Additional consultations were also carriedout during site visits
which were part o f the review and finalization o f documents andfor the verification o f locations o f
potential wind erosion and cut-banks (see section 6.2 and 6.3).
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?
Monitoring and evaluationhave beenbuilt into the three EMPs for all attributes o f concern. A separate
monitoringplan has beenprepared for the monitoring o f pollution air, water and soil, noise levels, roadside
plantation, borrow area and haul roadmanagement, aquatic biodiversity, potential sites for erosion (created
by water and/or wind) and the use, transport, storage, and handling o fpondash. The plan includes a
combination o f qualitative and quantitative indicators as well as guidance on measurement methods.
Environmental reporting will be on a quarterly basis incoordination with the project's overall progress
reports. Institutional responsibilities o f monitoring for each phase o f the project are specified.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Impacts on land and people: The bypass is a new alignment and will require land acquisition o f 781
hectares (ha), o f which 687 ha (88%) are private agricultural land, and 94 ha (12%) transfer o f government
land. The land acquisitionwill impact 8,008 households, of which titleholder families account for 98% and
sharecroppers and other non-titleholders 2%. A total o f 20,224 families will be adversely affectedby the
project. Approximately 50% o f the affected households are vulnerable households, consisting o f largely
Schedule Caste, Below Poverty Line, woman-headed households, andthree Schedule Tribe households. In
addition, approximately 2,484 families will become landless.
Loss o f prouerties or income: Relocation or resettlement i s required for 93 common property structures
(such as school, temple, panchayat office, police station, tube well and well) and 1,002 families' private
structures (residential, commercial, and residence-cum-commercial), which will be fully or partially
demolishedor become inhabitable. All private structures, except for 2 residential structures, are on private
land. The income o f the affected families will be seriously affected by the loss o f agriculture land. About
87% o f the affected agricultural titleholders (excluding absentee titleholders) will have less than district
average minimumeconomic holding, which is likely to become economically unviable after the acquisition
is completed.




                                                       -1 4 -

Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs): There is a risk o f STD infections due mainly to the truck traffic
usingthe bypass. A survey that was carriedout both at cross sections o f state highway and at villages
along the bypass alignment found that the level o f awarenesson STD/HIV was low both among the
truckers andnearby villagers.

Social development outcomes: The project i s part o f the NHDP, with significant expected social
development outcomes mainly inthe form of improved transport efficiency, better road safety, better access
to markets and resources, andimproved social interaction o f the areas served by the highway with other
part o f the country. These benefits will be realizedina muchbroader geographic scale than the areas
directly affected by the project. For the project area, the bypass will facilitate movement o f goods and
enhance people's ability to access markets, non-farmjobs, services and information. Better access to
markets andjobs will significantly increase economic opportunities, thereby increase rural incomes and
contribute to poverty reduction. The project seeks to achieve the positive social outcomes by avoiding to
the extent possible, minimizing and mitigating adverse social impacts.

6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
NHAIorganized a numberof consultations with potentially affected people along the five bypass
alternative alignments before the selection o f preferredalignment. The consultations revealed that majority
of the people inthe project area were supportive to the bypass, but they were also concerned with adequate
compensation for property loss, road safety, employment opportunities to affectedpeople, acquisition of
fertile agricultural land, and connectivity to markets. Key stakeholders such as project affected persons,
opinion makers, elected representatives anddifferent department personnel were consulted both through
individual discussions andpublic consultations during the preparation o f RAP at village, district and state
level. At the village level, group discussions with different social communities andespecially women
agriculture laborers and other vulnerable groups were carried out, on issues relating to design options,
alternate livelihood, relocation and enhancement o f common property resources, measures for
compensation and assistance, etc. Between July 31andDecember 29,2001, more than 100village-level
consultations were conducted, andthe findingso f these consultations were considered inthe decisions for
the locations o funderpassesand overpasses. NHAIalso conducted district level consultations inall three
project districts inJanuary 2002. State level consultationwas heldon February 25, 2002. All these
facilitated the minimization o f adverse social impacts and the development o f realistic mitigationplans.
For a continuedand sustainable participation, the RAP proposed a continuous consultation process for the
project implementationperiod (see section 5.4).
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The NGOs are integral part o f the institutional arrangements for implementation o fthe RAP. Two NGOs
were mobilized inMarch 2003 (one each for the two road contracts) and the implementation o f RAP has
been initiated. The NGOs also serve as member o f the DistrictLevel Committees to facilitate the
implementationo f the RAP.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The key to ensure the achievement o f social development outcomes is in satisfactory implementationo f the
RAP. The RAP contains details o f the institutional arrangements and specifies the roles and
responsibilities for implementation, monitoringand evaluation o fthe project. The Environment and Social
Development Unitat NHAI'sCorporate Office will coordinate the resettlement activities o f the project.
One R&R manager will be assigned to work exclusively on the bypass project. Inthe field unit, one R&R
manager for each roadcontract has been deputed. Three District Level Committees have been set up to


                                                     - 15-

facilitate landacquisition and RAP implementation. Grievances concerning titleholders will be addressed
through the existingstate mechanism, according to which, once a week, Tehsil diwas is organized to
resolve grievances o f local people. The District Administration presides over these meetings. Inaddition,
Grievance Redress Committees have beenestablished for early disposal o f complaints o f non-titleholders in
each district to deal with grievances o f the affected people (see Annex 11).
6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?
The RAP contains detailed plan for monitoring, evaluation andreporting of R&R performance.
Comprehensive monitoring indicators and reporting formats have been developed and specified inthe RAP
The proposed indicatorsrelate to bothprogress and processmonitoringby the NHAI. Arrangements have
beenmade for following the reporting schedules. External evaluators will be appointed to provide an
independentannual assessment of progressmade by the project to meet the objectives o fthe R&R
framework.

7. Safeguard Policies:




7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.

     To comply with Environment Assessment OPlBP/GP 4.01, a detailed EA was carried out, and EMPs
     prepared for each contract package. These include mitigationand enhancement measures for all
     identified impacts. To ensure their implementation, the EMPs are made part o f the contract
     documents.

     Although no protected monument has been impacted, to comply with Cultural Property OPN 11.03, the
     Rehabilitation and Relocation plans have beenprepared to safeguard the affected temples andother
     common property resources that have been identifiedto have a cultural significance. These plans are a
     part o f the EMPs.
     To comply with OPlBP4.12, NHAIhas prepared an appropriate R&R entitlement framework in
     accordance with the Bank's OP 4.12 and O D 4.20 to cover all types o f affectedpeople. I t recognizes
     support for share-croppers and all squatters and vulnerable encroachers. The RAP includes the
     entitlement framework, and addresses land acquisition and other potential adverse social impacts.




                                                       -16-

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Benefits o f the project are likely to be sustainedover time as the traffic volumes increase. Nevertheless, a
key factor will be NHAI's capacity to maintain and efficiently operate the newly created road assets. The
project will enhance this capacity through institutional strengthening, promotion o f private sector
involvement, and assuredfunding mechanisms. Key issues are (a) clarifying roles o fNHAI, MORTH and
the states; (b) establishing an overall strategy for national highway spending; and(c) adequate funding for
maintenance. The implementationunder TNHP and GTRIP o f the recommendations o f the Institutional
Strengthening study and Corridor Management study will be critical for project benefits to sustain over a
periodo f time. Recent increases inNHAIrevenues from levies on petrol anddiesel fuel are also an
important step.

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
                     Risk                           Risk Rating                 Risk Mitigation Measure
 From Outputs to Objective
 Newly increased traffic capacity is not                 M          Securedmaintenance funding and strengthened
 efficiently managed andmaintained.                                 maintenance practice through Corridor
                                                                    Management Units.
 NHAI'scommitment to policy and                          M          The progress will be closely monitored through
 institutional reforms becomes weak.                                quarterly and supervision missionreports, and
                                                                    remedialactions, including linking the appraisal
                                                                    timetable for future national highway projects
                                                                    with the institutional reform progress, will be
                                                                    taken as appropriate.
 From Components to Outputs
 Delays inprocurement andaward o f                       M          NHAI'sfunction inprocurement andcontracting
 contracts.                                                         i s being strengthened under TNHP and GTRIP.
 Delays insite readiness, and                            M          Adequate staffing, high-level committees, early
 unsatisfactory implementation o f RAP                              appointment o fNGOs and monthlymonitoring
 and EMP.                                                           o f action plans.
 Unsatisfactory consultantlcontractor                    M          Strict pre-qualification criteria, supervisionby
 performance, construction delays, quality                          internationally experienced consultants, large
 problems and cost overrun.                                         constructionpackages.
 Delayed submission o f entity audit reports             M          Implementation o f an action planby NHAIto
 by NHAI.                                                           speedup the compilation andaudit o fentity
                                                                    accounts.
 No separatebank accounts for different                  M          Sources and uses o f funds to be made clearly
 projects inAllahabad PIU.                                          identifiable inthe PIUbank accounts, and PIU
                                                                    audit reports to be providedby CAG I external
                                                                    auditor acceptable to CAG.
 Overall Risk Rating                                     M
 iisk Rating H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ris
             -                                  I,M (Modest Risk), FNegligibleor Low Risk)


3. Possible Controversial Aspects:




                                                       - 1 7 -

G. Main Loan Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition
Standard conditions only

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
1.       The NHAIwill maintain the state high-levelProject Coordinating Committee inUttar
         Pradesh, to coordinate the issues related to land acquisition, R&R, environment and shifting
         o f utilities, supported by district level committees and grievance cells for landacquisition
         and R&R.

2.       The NHAIwill maintain the External StakeholdersAdvisory Group, which will meet at
         least twice each year to review the overall program and strategy being implementedunder
         the project.

3.       The NHAIwill maintain a Project ImplementationUnitat Allahabad to be responsible for
         the day-to-day implementation of Allahabad Bypass construction. The unit shallbe staffed
         by the requisite number o f suitably qualified andexperiencedprocurement, financial
         management, social, environmental and other staff.

4.       The NHAIwill implement Resettlement Action Plan, Environmental Management Plans,
         and Tree Plantation Strategy, to the satisfaction o f the Bank.

5.       The NHAIwill produce annual report on condition ofNHAIroad network and projected
         future user costs andprojected asset condition with forecast levels o f maintenance.
6.       The NHAIwill produce a quarterly report on implementation progress with agreed format
         presented inthe Borrower's Project ImplementationPlan, anda mid-termreview report
         after 24 months o f project implementation.

7.       The NHAIwill submit to the Bank entity audit report six months from the close ofthe
         agency's financial year.

8.       The NHAIwill submit to the Bank audited financial statementsfor the PIU at Allahabad
          covering project expenditures incurred there for both the ThirdNationalHighway Project
         and Allahabad Bypass Project throughout the period o f the loan for Allahabad Bypass
         Project.




H. Readinessfor Implementation
iXi 1. a) The engineering design documents for the     first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
         o f project implementation.
0 1.b)Notapplicable.

   2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start o f
       project implementation.
   3. The Project ImplementationPlan has been appraised and found to be realistic and o f satisfactory
       quality.
04. Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions(SectionG):


                                                       - 1 8 -

I. Compliancewith Bank Policies
ix] 1. This project complies with all applicable Bankpolicies.
02. ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesarerecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcomplieswith
       all other applicable Bankpolicies.




Zhi Liu                                 GuangZhe Chen               ichael F. Carter
Team Leader                             Sector ManagerlDirector




         .




                                                    - 1 9 -

                                    Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                                      INDIA: Allahabad Bypass Project
                                     KeyIndicators
                                          Performance            Data CollectionStrategy
 Hierarchvof Objectives                                                                          CriticalAssumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:       Sector Indicators:               Sector1country reports:       [fromGoal to Bank Mission)
Reduce highway                 Road users' satisfaction with    ioad user satisfaction        Govemment remains
infrastructure bottlenecks to  the performance o f highway      jurveys: baseline, mid-term   committed to sector reforms.
support poverty reduction and system increasedfrom the          .eview (MTR), and end o f
private sector-led economic    level established through road iroject (EOP)                   Continued funding for the
growth                         user satisfaction baseline                                     National Highway
                               survey                                                         Development Program.

                                                                                              Increaseddelegation and
                                                                                              public accountability o f
                                                                                              NHAI.


Project Development            Outcome IImpact                  Project reports:              (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                     Indicators:
1. Reducedtransport            1.1.Average vehicle travel       Project evaluation reports.   Civil works are completed on
constraints on national        time along the project corridor                                time and meet design
economic activity.             reduced by 30%, by EOP,          MTR missionreports.           standards, and maintenance
                               from current 4-5 days one way                                  funding is secured.
                               between Delhi and Kolkata.       [mplementation Completion
                                                                Reports (ICR).                Majority of the cost savings
                               1.2. Truck operating cost                                      are captured by road users,
                               along the project corridor       Annual road condition         consumers, and farmers.
                               reduced by 10% inreal terms      surveys.
                               from the current Rs. 11per                                     Strong NHAI commitment on
                               km,by EOP.                       Annual surveys on delays and policy and institutional
                                                                accidents,                    reforms continues.
2. Improved institutional      2.1. Increasedprivate sector
capacity to manage road        participation inthe operations
programs, assets, and          and maintenance o f national
services.                      highways.

                               2.2. Road user responsiveness
                               mechanism improved.

Output from each               Output Indicators:               Project reports:              (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Cost effective delivery o f 1.1.Ex post ERRo fproject        Quarterly progress reports;   Newly increased capacity is
increased traffic capacity and corridor above 20%.                                            efficiently managed and
improved quality o f national                                    Supervision mission reports; maintained.
highways.                      1.2. All civil work contracts
                               delivered to time, budget, cost   Disbursement reports;        Strong NHAI commitment on
                               and safety constraints.                                        institutional capacity building
                                                                User surveys conducted for    and policy reform continues.
                               1.3. 100% delivery o f           baseline, MTR, and EOP;
                               entitlements to PAFs and
                               restoration o f common           Annual road condition survey;
                               property resources as and
                               when planned in RAP.             Annual surveys on delays and



                                                           - 20 -

                                                              ccidents on NH-2.
                               .4. All EMPs carried out in
                               ccordance with contract
                               lauses.

                               .5. Level o f users'
                               atisfaction with the
                               erformance o f road
                               ifrastructure on project
                               orridor increased.

2. Improved O&M o f national   .1. O&M for selected
highways                       ational highway carried out
                               nder performance-based
                               ontract to private operator.

                               .2. Number o f accidents and
                               atalities per 1,000 km o f
                               .ational highway reduced on
                               iroject road to the levels
                               ignificantly below the state
                               .verages.

3. Improved institutional      toad user satisfaction surveys
capacity                       arried out on the regular
                               iasis.
Project Components I           nputs: (budget for each        'roject reports:             :fromComponents to
Sub-components:                :omponent)                                                  3utputs)
1. Allahabad Bypass             .US$296.30    million         2uarterly progress reports;  rimely procurement and
construction, including                                       hpervision mission reports.  :ontract implementation;
supervision, land acquisition
and resettlement, and                                                                      rimely site readiness;
environmental management.
                                                                                           Fullimplementation o fRAP
                                                                                           indEMP;

                                                                                           Satisfactory contractor
                                                                                           performance.

                                                                                           Sources and uses o f funds
                                                                                           :learly identifiable in the ban1
                                                                                           iccounts o f Allahabad PIU.

                               JS$21.20million                Juarterly progress reports;  NHAIcontinues commitment
                                                              Supervision mission reports. inoutsourcingO&M activitie
                                                                                           to the private sector.

3. Institutional strengthening JSS0.30 million                Juarterly progress reports;  GO1and NHAI remain
                                                              Supervision mission reports. Zommitted to institutional
                                                                                           reforms and retain strong
                                                                                           ownership o f action plans.




                                                           -21-

                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                                   INDIA: Allahabad Bypass Project

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$296.30 million
                      -
Bypass Construction

(a)      Civil works for buildingthe 84.7-km full access controlled, 4-lane dividedcarriageway including
         service roads where required, a 1-km, 4-lane bridge over the Ganga River, and environmental
         management including tree plantation, for a combined total o f $240.4 1million.

(b)      Supervision o f civil works ($13.68 million).

(c)      Landacquisition, resettlement andutilityrelocation($39.08 million).

         (i)     landacquisition ($18.77 million) andutility relocation (not part o f RAP, $1.70 million), to
                 be financed entirely by NHAI.

         (ii)    R&R assistance ($17.71 million) will be paidto beneficiaries for eachpackage through a
                 consultative process. Payments will be made from the project director's office, andthe
                 Bank share ($15.58 million) will be reimbursedon the basis o f Statements o f Expenditure
                 (SOE).

         (iii)   R&R implementation support, training and monitoring ($0.90million) will be provided
                 through: supervision level NGO consultancy package ($300,000); one monitoring
                 consultancy ($100,000); training o f NHAI and NGO staff plus other R&R implementation
                 expenses by SOE ($500,000).

(d)      NHAIproject management costs (not Bank financed, $3.14 million).


Project Component 2 US$21.19 million
                      -
Corridor Management

(a)      Performance-based contracts to private operators for initial deficiency removal works and
         maintenance for 5 years ($11.55 million). Bank financing for this component ($6.93 million) will
         be limitedto only the civil works butnot other recurrent operations.

(b)      Procurement o f ATMS and user fee collection system ($9.24 million).

(c)      Taxes on equipment ($0.40 million, non Bank financed)


Project Component 3 US$0.30 million
                      -
Institutional Strengthening, to fund independentand periodic surveys o f roadusers androadsector
stakeholders duringthe project period, to determine the level o f their awareness, involvement and
satisfaction with the delivery, management and operation o f national highways by NHAI.




                                                    - 22 -

                                              Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                                             INDIA: Allahabad Bypass Project

                                                                                                                          Foreign                   Total
                                                                                                                       US $million              US $million
Bypass Construction                                                                                   189.19                 68.36                 257.55
Corridor Management                                                                                    13.40                                          18.40
InstitutionalStrengthening                                                                              0.14
Total Baseline Cost                                                                                  202.73                  73.50                 276.23
   Physical Contingencies                                                                               9.64                                          13.OO
   Price Contingencies                                                                                 20.88                  7.69                   28.57
                                           Total Proiect Costs4                                I     233.25         I        84.55          I      317.80
.                                                                  Front-end fee
 ~~                                                                                                                           2.40                     2.40
                                     Total Financing Required                                        233.25                  86.95                 320.20

                                                                                                       Local              Foreign                    Total
                             Project Cost By Category                                             US $million           US $million             US $million
 Civil Works                                                                                            192.55                   72.94                   265.49
 Goods                                                                                                    8.63                    4.62                     13.25
 Services                                                                                                 8.46                    6.99                     15.45
 Miscellaneous                                                                                           23.61                    0.00                     23.61
                                                            Total Project Cost:                 I       233.25                   84.55                   317.80
                                                                         Front-endfee                                              2.40                     2.40
                                                   Total Financing Required                            233.25                    86.95                   320.20

     1
      Identifiabletaxes and duties are 23.7 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 296.5 (US$mf. Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 80.94% of
    total project cost net o f taxes.




                                                                        - 23 -

                               Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
                                      INDIA: Allahabad Bypass Project

Economic analysis was carried out for the bypass component by the Consultant appointed for the feasibility
study and detailed project design. The total cost ofthe component including contingencies represents 80%
o f the total project cost. Economic analysis was not performed for the corridor management and
institutional strengthening components as they are small components and most o f their economic benefits
are not quantifiable. Details o f the analysis for the bypass are described inthe Final Feasibility Report and
Detailed Project Report, which are included inthe project file.

Alternative alignments for the proposedbypass were extensively examined during the feasibility study
through a careful alignment analysis and selection process that included public consultations in the entire
project area surrounding all alignments. A total o f 7 alignments were evaluated, including:

0     upgrading o f the existing national highway stretch that passes through the city center o f Allahabad
      (with 3 design options: fully elevated, partially elevated, and at grade);

0     a southern bypass alignment; and

0     5 northem bypass alignments.
The evaluation involveda careful comparison o f engineering feasibility, costs, and environmental and
social impacts among the altemative alignments. The 3 upgrading options along the existing national
highway were rejected mainly due to the concems o f expected adverse environmental impact o f growing
inter-city traffic on the historical city. The southem bypass alignment, which would have to cross the
Yamuna Riverand Ganga River, was rejected due to the expected high costs associatedwith the two
required bridges. The 5 northem alignments (AN1to AN5) are mainly defined with altemative locations o f
a bridge across the Ganga River. A preferred alignment (AN4) was identifiedand selected for detailed
engineering design. The economic analysis described below pertains to this selectedalignment.
The analysis followed the conventional highway cost-benefit analysis methodology, andwas basedon the
Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM-111)developed by the World Bank. It
compared the base scenario, i.e. "do minimum" or "without project" situation, with the "with project"
scenario, i.e. a 4-lane bypass constructed all inone time. I t also considered an altemative "with project"
scenario, i.e. a bypass constructed with 2-lane carriageway first andexpanded to 4-lane later when the
bypass traffic reaches a certain level. A summary o f the results for the recommended the 4-lane bypass
construction all inone time is givenon the table below:




                                                      - 24 -

[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]

                               Present Value )f Flows                            Fisca npact
  ~




                               Economic          Financial Analysis
                                Analysis                                  Taxes              Subsidies
Benefits:

Savings in road user                $757 m
costs and road
maintenance

costs:

Road construction,                  $203 m
land & resettlement,
future maintenance
Net Benefits:
                                    $554 m
IRR:
                                      32 Yo

Summaryof Benefitsand Costs:
The HDM-I11model estimates the net reduction intotal transportation costs over the life o f the project,
taking account o f savings inroad user costs, primarily vehicle operating costs and time savings that are
expected to accrue to usersboth on the bypass and existing national highway stretch, along with changes in
construction and maintenance costs. User cost savings depend mainly on changes inroad roughness, traffic
congestion and operating speeds. Safety impacts are uncertain due to offsetting effects of improvedroad
standards and expected higher traffic speeds, and were not considered inthe analysis due to lack o f refined
data on both accident occurrence and costs.

The bypass constructioncosts were basedon the Billof Quantities developed by the consultant for the
entire bypass includingthe road stretches, the Ganga Bridge, and the service roads. Total costs also
include physical andprice contingencies, and costs o f supervision, environment management plan, land
acquisition, resettlement and rehabilitation, and utility relocation. Annual maintenance costs for the
bypass, service road, and existing national highway stretch were included inthe cost-benefit analysis, and
were based on the criteria adopted inthe Final Feasibility Report. Maintenance costs for the existing
national highway stretch comprises annual maintenance costs and costs o fperiodical overlay at every 5th
year.

CurrentTraffic and Traffic Forecast:
Traffic counts at various locations along the existing national highway stretch were carried out in 1998 as
part o f the project feasibility study. Traffic levels varied from 7,910 AADT (or 16,500 passengercar
equivalent units) to 27,800 AADT (or 33,400 passengercar equivalent units),plus a large number o f
non-motorizedvehicles which ranged from 2,800 to 17,600 AADT. The highest traffic volumes were
observed within the city where localtraffic mixed with inter-city traffic. The traffic levels were verified
through a 3-day traffic count conducted inJanuary 2002 at two locations on the existing national highway
and near the two endpoints o f the proposedbypass.




                                                       - 25 -

Assumed traffic growth rate by vehicle type:

             Vehicle Type                      2006 to 2013           2014 to 2023            2024 to 2026
  Car, jeep, van, tractor/trailer                   7.8                    6.5                      6.5
  Scooter/motorcycle                               13.0                    9.5                      7.5
  Buses                                            10.0                    8.0                      7.5
  Lightcargo vehicle                                7.8                    6.5                      6.5
I 2-axle truck                                      7.0                    6.0                      6.0
I13-axle truck                                      7.0                    6.0                      6.0
  Multi-axle truck                     III          7.0           III      6.0           III        6.0        III


MainAssumptions:
For the purpose o f economic analysis, the project life i s assumedto be 20 years. A 25% scrap value is
assumed for the endyear o f project life. A discount rate o f 12% i s usedfor the calculation o fNPV. Where
the taxes and subsidies are not easily identified,a standard conversion factor of0.90 hasbeenused
throughout to convert financial costs to economic costs.

Land acquisition for the right-of-way was taken as same for bothbypass construction options. Land
acquisition costs were based on the latest market prices o f comparable landtransactions, but were not
subject to economic pricing.
Technical. It is assumedthat the existing national highway stretch be properly maintainedbut not
improvedover the 20-year evaluation period inboth "with bypass" and "without bypass" scenarios. Inthe
with-project cases, further pavement strengthening i s providedthrough scheduled overlays. The bypass is
designed on the basis o f current levels o f truck overloading, recognizing the substantial lack o f success in
introducing improved load enforcement or truck fleet modemization inIndia.

The table below presents typical vehicle characteristics and roaduser costs:


                                   Typical Vehicle Characteristics and Road User Costs
                                                                       Light       Medium          Heavy       Multi-axle
                                            Cars         Buses        Trucks       Trucks          Trucks       Trucks
        Vehicle Characteristics
   Gross vehicle weight (tons)                1.2         14.9          5.3          15.7            25.0         40.2
   Number ofpassengers (#)                   4.8          43             0            0               0             0
   Service life (years)                       10           10           12            10              10            12
   Kilometers driven per year (km)        32,000         66,000       60,000       85,000          85,000      120,000
   Hours driven per year (hours)           1,950         2,000         1,500        2,100           2,100         2,100
      Road User Economic Costs
   New vehicle price (Rs)                 303,000       736,600       317,100      637,600        842,200      2,687,200
   New tire price (Rs)                       660         5,700         3,590        5,700           5,700         7,410
   Maintenancelabor (Rslhour)                 30           30           30           30               30           30
   Crew cost (Rslcrew hour)                   50          100           60           105             110          140
   Passengertime cost (Rs/psgr-hr)            57          45           N/A           NIA             NIA          NIA
   Cargo time (Rslveh-hr)                   NIA           NIA           25           25               25           25
   Fuelprice (Rslliter)                       17           17           17            17              17            17
   Lubricantsprice (Rsiliter)                 60          60            60           60               60           60




                                                      - 26 -

Sensitivity analysis/ Switching values of critical items:
The major risks affecting economic analysis for the highway upgradingcomponent are cost overruns, lower
than expected traffic growth, andlower than expected traffic choosing the bypass. Cost overruns were
considered by a 20% increase incapital andrecurrent costs. A 20% user benefit reduction was assumedto
account for the lower traffic growth over the evaluation period. All these sensitivity scenarios yield a
project ERRequal to or greater than 18%.

                     Sensitivity Scenarios                             ERR              NPV ($ million)
   Base case                                                            32%                   554
   Only 75% bypassable traffic using the bypass                         29%                   480

 I Only 50% bypassable traffic usingthe bypass                          20%                   195
   Value ofpassenger time equal to zero                          I      24%        1          350           I
 1                                                               I                 I                        I
 1 User benefits decreasedby 20 %                                       20%                   196
   Capital andrecurrent cost increased by 20%                    1      21%        I          254           I
   Benefits down 20% and costs up 20%                                   18%                   161


Distributiono f benefits: All income groups use the national highways, as travelers or as suppliers and
consumers o f goods and services. Without the project, high transport costs would continue to affect prices
andavailability of servicesto the communities servedby the project, andwould constrain economic
development at all levels. With the project, transport costs will decrease, travel times will reduce, and
services and commodities will be more likely to become available inrural areas. The trucking industry in
India i s competitive, andi s likely to pass on the benefits o f vehicle operating cost savings through lower
freight rates, higher quality o f services, andextended service coverage. Bus services that use the project
roads are both publicly and privately operated. While bus fares may or may not be reduced as a result o f
road improvement, the extent, schedules, and quality o f bus services are likely to respond to changes in
road capacity and quality.




                                                      - 27 -

                               Annex 5: Financial Summary
                            INDIA: Allahabad Bypass Project
                                      Years Ending




Total Financing
Required
ProjectCosts
  investment Costs          31.8       95.3       95.3     63.6   15.9   15.9   0.0
 Recurrent Costs             0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0
Total ProjectCosts          31.8       95.3       95.3     63.6   15.9   15.9   0.0
             Front-end fee   2.4        0.0       0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0
Total Financing             34.2       95.3       95.3     63.6   15.9   15.9   0.0
Financing
   IBRDllDA                 24.0       72.0       72.0     48.0   12.0   12.0   0.0
   Government               10.2       23.3       23.3     15.6   3.9    3.9    0.0
       Central               0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0
       Provincial            0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0
   Co-financiers             0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries      0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0
Other                        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0
Total Project Financing     34.2       95.3       95.3     63.6   15.9   15.9   0.0
Main assumptions:




                                           - 28 -

                              Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                                 INDIA: Allahabad Bypass Project

Procurement

A. InstitutionalCapacity
An assessment was carried out to determine the institutional capacity ofNHAIinthe areaofprocurement.
NHAIcarries out procurement ofworks, goods andservices in-housebyadivision headedby
MembedChiefGeneral manager. NHAIhas prior experience o f executiono f large externally aided
projects under assistance from ADB andJBIC. Both Bank and ADB are supporting NHAI's NHDP and
agency's institutional development. An assessment was carried out inFebruary 2000 to determine the
institutional capacity o fNHAI to undertake the ThirdNational Highway Project [Ln.4559-IN]. This was
repeated duringappraisal o f the Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project inMay 2001. Inboth cases, it
has been determinedthat NHAIhad the institutional capacity to carry out the project.
NHAIhas also confirmed that its Board has been fully delegated authority for award ofall contracts
without any limitation of value. NHAIhas an exclusive web-site www.nhai.org that provides procurement
informationon names of successful bidder, current bids, etc.
Many o f the officers working with NHAIare drawn from the various state governments and MORTH on
deputation. After completing their tenure, they generally retumback to the parent cadre with a result that
there i s a continuous tumover o f the staff working with NHAI. It was therefore agreedthat NHAIwill
depute all the staff who will work particularly inthis project, to the procurement seminar conducted by
ASCI andNIFMfor training inprocurement so that they are filly conversant with the Bank requirements.
The prior review thresholds (indicated inthis annex) were derived after assessing NHAI's capacity to carry
out project procurement as per Bank Procurement Guidelines.
B. ProcurementMethods
All Goods and Works financed underthe Loanshall be procured inaccordancewith the World Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement, January 1995, revisedJanuary 1999. Consulting services to be funded
through the Bank's Loan shall be procured inaccordance with the World Bank's Guidelines for the
Selection and Employment o f Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised January
1999 and May 2002. All civil works, goods and services will be procured usingIndia-specific Bank's
Model Standard Pre-qualification and BiddingDocuments. Specific procurement arrangements are
summarized inTables A andAl, and are briefly described below.
Bl. Works [uS$251.38 Million]
IntemationalCompetitive Bidding(ICB): US239.32 MillionEquivalent including contingencies:
The works relating to construction of bridge across River Ganga and approaches for the bridge will be
implemented in 3 contract packagesvalued US239.32 million. One contract will be o f USS26.10 million
andother two o fUS$95.98 million andUS$117.23 millionrespectively. Pre-qualificationfor all three
contract packages have been completed. Bids for the bridge package have already been opened on May 2,
2003 and contract award has been cleared with the Bank on June 2, 2003. The bids for the two approach
packages have also been invited andare scheduled to be receivedinlate September2003. The bidding
documents for these packageswere compiledbased on Bank approved biddocuments. Preference will be
given to domestic contractors inaccordance with Appendix 2 o f Banksprocurement guidelines.




                                                     -29  -

National Competitive BiddingINCB): US$l1.55 MillionEquivalent including contingencies:

 Small civil works valued individuallyequivalent o f US$lO.O million and below with respect to corridor
management up to an aggregate value o f US$l1.55 will be procuredfollowing NCB procedures insmall
 convenient packages.
 Direct contractindForce Account: US$0.51Million Equivalent:
 Minor scatteredworks relating to environmentalprotection etc. value USS0.51 million -or all o f small
value and are not amenable for competitive bidding. Hence they are to be procured inpackageso f
US$50,000 equivalent or less on the basis o f (i) lump sum fixed price contracts soliciting quotations from
at least three qualified suppliers up to an aggregate o f US$0.40 million and (ii)
                                                                                as a last resort through
 force account departmentally (up to an aggregateceiling of US$O.11 million).

B2. Goods /US$9.64 Million Equivalent]
Goods and equipment - including computer hardware and software, office, laboratory and conidor
management equipment will be procured following ICB procedures for packages above US$200,000
equivalent (total US$7.39 million); the rest will be procuredusingNCB procedures in packagesbelow
US$200,000 equivalent (total US$1.25 million). Small value off-the-shelf items individually costing
US$30,000 equivalent per contract or less (total US$500,000) would be procured following
NationaVIntemationalShopping procedures inaccordancewith World Bank Procurement Guidelines.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods will be giveninaccordancewith Appendix 2 o f the
 guidelines for items procuredfollowing ICB procedures. Satellite imagery, proprietary software, books,
 etc. valued US$lOO,OOO will be procured following Direct Contracting procedures inaccordance with
 Procurement Guidelines. This component includes taxes on equipmentamounting to US$0.40 million.

B3. Services /US$l5.45 Million Equivalent including contingencies]
 Consultancy services will be procured as follows:
  s1.                                                                                       Method of
~                        Description of Services                    Estimated Cost
  No.                                                                                        Selection
     1.   ConstructionSupervision-Bridge Package                US$1.49million           QCBS




The proposals for the Construction Supervision Consultancy for ICB Works have already beenreceived
 and technical evaluation has been completed. The selection process will be completedandcontract signed
well before signingo fthe works contracts.




                                                     - 30 -

B4. Procurement by Beneficiaries of R&R Assistance pSSl7.71 Million Equivalent including
contingencies]
R&R assistance (US$17.71 million consisting of small civil works valued US$14.1 million and simple
itemso f goods, livestock etc. valued at US$3.61 million) will be paidto beneficiaries for eachpackage
through a consultative process. Payments will be made from the project director's office, and the Bank
share (US$1.5.58 million) will be reimbursedon the basis o f Statement o f Expenditure (SOE). R&R
assistanceto individualPAPSwill not exceedUS$2,000 equivalent per family, and procurement will
include landscaping, buildings for residencesand stores, livestock, agricultural implements, seedlings, hand
tools, and mopeds (small motorcycles). These will be procuredindividually by the beneficiaries as per
commercial practices, following shopping or direct contractingprocedures as appropriate.

C. ProcurementPlanning
NHAIhasprepared aprocurement planfor all the identifiedworks packagesunderthe project, which has
been reviewedand approved by the Bank. Procurement o f all works packages will follow arrangements
outlined inaccordance the project's procurement plan.
D.Prior ReviewofProcurementDecisionsbythe Bank [Refer to Table B]

0    All ICB contracts for works [3 packages], NCB contract for works (above US$3.0 million), and all
     goods contracts valued to US$200,000 and above

0    Consultant contracts with an estimated value o f US$lOO,OOO equivalent and above for firms, and
     US$50,000 equivalent and above for individuals.
E.NCBProvisions
All NCB contracts shall be awarded inaccordancewith the provisions of Paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits publishedby the Bank and revised in
January 1999 [the Guidelines]. Inthis regard, all NCB contracts to be financed from the proceeds o f the
Loan shall follow the following procedures:
1.      Only the modelbiddingdocuments for NCB agreedwith the GO1Task Force [and as amended for
        time to time], shall be used for bidding;
2.      Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper, at
        least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission o f bids;
3.      No special preference will be accorded to any bidder either for price or for other terms and
        conditions when competing with foreign bidders, state-owned enterprises, small-scale enterprises or
        enterprises from any given State;

4.      Except with the prior concurrence o f the Bank, there shall be no negotiation o f price with the
        bidders, evenwith the lowest evaluatedbidder;
5.      Extension o f bidvalidity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence o f the Bank (i) the
                                                                                                      for
        first request for extension if it i s longer than eight weeks; and (ii) all subsequentrequests for
                                                                             for
        extension irrespective o f the period (such concurrence will be considered by Bank only incases o f
        Force Majure and circumstances beyond the control o f the Purchaser I Employer);

6.      Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence o f the Bank. The system o f
        rejecting bids outside a predetermined marginor "bracket" o f prices shall not be usedinthe
        project;




                                                        - 31 -

7.       Rate contracts entered into by Directorate General o f Supplies & Disposals, will not be acceptable
         as a substitute for NCB procedures. Such contracts will be acceptable however for any
         procurement underNational Shopping procedures;

8.       Two or three envelop system will not be used.

F.ProcurementInformation
Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:

1.       prompt reporting o f contract award information by the project management units for the respective
          components; and

2.        comprehensive quarterly reports prepared by NHAIindicating:

               revised cost estimates for individual contracts and total cost; and

          0    revisedtimings o fprocurement actions including advertising, bidding, contract award, and
               completion time for individual contracts.
G.ProposedProcurementArrangements-Thresholdsand Frequencyof Supervision
The project elements, their estimated costs, and proposed methods o f procurement are summarized inTable
A. Thresholds are given inTable B. Figures inparenthesis are the respective amounts to be financedby
the Bank.

Procurement methods (Table A)

                          Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                            (US$ million equivalent)




 I'Figures inparenthesesare the amountsto be financedby the Bank Loan. All costs includecontingencies.
   includes civil works and goods to be procuredthrough national shopping, consultingservices, services of
   contractedstaff of the project managementoffice, training, technical assistance services, and incrementaloperating
   costs relatedto (i)managingthe project, and (ii)re-lending project funds to local governmentunits.




                                                       -32 -

                      Table AI: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                        (US$ million equivalent)




" Includingcontingencies

          Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                QBS = Quality-based Selection
                SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
                LCS = Least-Cost Selection
                CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
                Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
                Commercial Practices, etc.
                N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
                Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.




                                                  - 33 -

Prior review thresholds (Table B)

                 Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'

                                    Contract Value                                          Contracts Subject to
                                      Threshold                   Procurement                    Prior Review
  Expenditure Category              (US$ thousands)                 Method                       (US$ millions)
 1. Works
 Civil Works for                     All Contracts                     ICB                   3 packagesvalued in
 Construction of Bypass                                                                    aggregate at US$239.32
                                                                                                    million
Civil Works for Corridor
 Management                    All contracts valuedover               NCB                    2 packagesvaluedin
                                     USS3.0 million                                        aggregate at US$l1.55
                                                                                                    million
2. Goods                        US$200,000 and above                   ICB                Packagesvalued US$7.39
                                                                                              million inaggregate
 3. Services                  ;or firms, US$lOO,OOO and Bank Guidelinesand as at
                                        above;                 ParagraphB3 above
                              For individual, US$50,000
                                      and above
4. Miscellaneous
 5. Miscellaneous
 6. Miscellaneous

                Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$272.5million
                          Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:           Average
       Frequencyof procurement supervisionmissions proposed: One every 12months
                                                                         (includes special procurementsupervisionfor
                                                                         post-review/audits)


I\Thresholdsgenerally differ by country andproject. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
 Procurement"and contact the RegionalProcurement Adviser for guidance.




                                                    - 34 -

             Annex 6(B): Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements
                                   INDIA: Allahabad Bypass Project

Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
Country Issues. (i) timeliness o f audit reports is identified as a country issue and will be relevant to
                     The
the project. Therehave beendelays insubmission ofentity audit report by theNHAIinthe past beyondthe
6-month requirement after the closing o f every financial year. This is due to delays insubmission o f
accounts by NHAIto CAG. (ii)      The country issue with respect to timely availability of funds to the project
implementing entity will not be an issue inthis project as NHAIreceives funds inadvance every year from
MORTHbudgetary allocation.
Strengths andWeaknesses. The strengths include the following: (i)      NHAIhas been involvedinthe
implementation o f TNHP and GTRIP since 2000 andhas been adequately exposed to the Bank's
disbursement procedures and financial reporting requirements; (ii)     a budgeting and accounting systemhas
beenestablished and is operational; (iii)  staff are trained to carry out basic accounting functions at all
levels includingPIUs; (iv) a systemo f periodic financial reporting from the PIUs to the H Q i s operational
and (v) a project financial management manual has recently beenupdated, which sets down indetail
accounting and financial reporting policies, procedures & processes, operation o f the project financial
management systemand reporting an-angements. Inaddition to the two significant weaknesses described in
Section F.2 o f the main text (which pose modest risks to the project), three more weaknesses have been
identifiedbelow:

                Significant Weakness                                         Mitigation
 NHAI's accounting practice of loadingproject             For the purpose o f Bank projects, the Agency
 cost with a 1%charge o f Agency Commission to            Commission amount will be met from
 be included inproject cost is atypical.                  counterpart funding andthis will be certified by
                                                          the auditors.
 The accounting practice o fNHAIo f recording the This i s mitigated by the fact that the title to the
 highways that it builds as CWIP despite the fact         highways formally rests with the govemment,
 that these are not owned by NHAIi s                      while the maintenance responsibility is with
 nonconforming with usual Dractice.                       NHAI.
 The internal auditors point out that payments o f        CAG advised that this be accounted as an
 Rs. 755.9 million to Central andstate govemment          advance and NHAIhas agreed. Note that the
 agencies for works like shiftingo f utilities etc.       advances have not been claimed from the Bank.
 have been accounted for as CWIP although
 utilizationcertificates have not been obtained.

FundFlow. Fundsfor the project are from budgetary allocation of MORTH, and will flow from MORTH
to NHAIquarterly inadvance. Reimbursements from the Bank to NHAIwill be retrospective after project
expenditures have been incurred. The funds flows from MORTH to NHAIhave worked smoothly inthe
past. The funds flow to the PIUs from NHAIH Q have also worked smoothly for the other Bank funded
projects. NHAIwill transfer funds to the Allahabad PIUbased on quarterly forecasted cash requirements
submittedby it. Fundstransferred to the PIUwill be specifically identifiedto the project for which these
are transferred. Although the Allahabad PIU will operate a common bank account for both TNHP and
ABP that it implements,the sources anduses of funds for eachproject will be clearly distinguished inthe
account.




                                                       - 35 -

Staffing. The finance function at NHAIH Q is headedby a Member (Finance) who i s supported by a GM
(Finance) and 3 Deputy General Managers (Accounts), 3 Managers, 3 Accounts Officers, 6 Accountants
and a Cashier. The PIU is staffed with a Manager (Finance) and an Accountant, both o fwhom report to
the GM (Finance) at the HQ. The Manager (Finance) at the PIU is responsible for accounting, vetting the
final bills o f civil contractors, andmanaging funds.
Accounting Policies and Procedures. NHAIfollows double entry accrual accounting based on accounting
standards issues by the Institute o f Chartered Accountants o f India. It has an accountingmanual that sets
out standard procedures for maintenance o f accounts and for transaction entry into the computerized FMS
as per IndianAccounting Standards and NHAI Rules(1997). This manual has recently beenupgraded.
Project accounts are maintainedby PIUs usingthe FMS, and cover all sources (including donor
contributions)and uses o f funds. Financial statements are generated from the FMS. All transactions at
PIUs are captured through a Chart o f Accounts which representsthe General Ledger(GL) account heads
andproject activities. GL account heads and codes are common for all o fNHAI's projects. All account
codes are identified to projects (single or multiple) to facilitate the automatic filtration o fproject codes at
the time ofvoucher entry. For every project, information is also capturedby component, sub component,
main activity and activity and further cross referenced by disbursement category. The expenditure incurred
on all capital works is shown as CWIP and no depreciation is provided thereon. When a decision is taken
with regards to capitalization, the value of such CWIP is capitalizedunder appropriate heads.
NHAIhas the practice ofcharging 1%ofthevalue ofcompletedworks as Agency Commission. Agency
Commission charges are separately computed and accounted for each project at PIUs. The total project
cost when worked out by the Authority i s loadedwith a 1% fee o f Agency Commission and this i s met by
counterpart funding.

Overall Conclusion. NHAI's financial management systems are adequate for meeting the Bank financial
management requirements. Its computerized financial management systems are functional. However, the
delays inthe submission o f entity audit reports and the fact that there are no separatebank accounts for
differentprojects inthe Allahabad PIUpose modest risksto the project, and these issues will be addressed
through mitigation measuresspecified in Section F.2 o f the main text.

2. Audit Arrangements
Internal Audit. The internal audit of NHAIis done by Pricewaterhouse Coopers. They will audit the PIU
at Allahabad and their report shall be made available to the Bank upon request. The audit will be camed
 out in accordance with the International Standards o f Auditing.
 External Audit. The statutory audit o f NHAIis done by the C&AG. The TOR o f the audit will be the
 same as that usedfor GTRIP and TNHP. Provision for the separate audit o f the PIU at Allahabad will be
 introducedinthis project.
The following audited annual project financial management statements are to be submittedto the Bank
within 6 months ofthe close o fthe GO1financial year: (i)      statement o f sources and uses o f funds classified
by expenditurecategories, components and sources of funds; (ii) account reconciliation; and (iii)
                                                                      special
 statement o f withdrawals from the Credit/Loan basedon SOEs or PMRs. The following audit reports will
be receivedby the Bank:

~~    ~~         Agency                          Audit Report                             Audited by
              NHAI PIU-                  PIU (including Project / SOE)                       CAG
                  NHAI                                Entitv                                 CAG
I             GO1- DEA                I         Special Account              I               CAG                  I



                                                      - 36 -

Inaccordance with the Bankpolicies for submission ofa separate financial statementfor the entity as a
whole for all revenue earning entities, NHAIwould be requiredto submit entity audit reports and
statements o f accounts within 6 months of the close of the financial year. All other audit reports from
NHAI PIUandGO1will also bereceivedwithin 6 months ofthe close ofthe financial year.
        -
Reportinp and Monitoring. Financial MonitoringReports (financial/physical/procurement progress related
reports) will be submitted on a quarterly basis from implementingPIUto the H Q at NHAIand from NHAI
to the Bank. The first FMR for ABP will be submittedto the Bank within 45 days o f the endo f the first
quarter from the date o f loan effectiveness.

3. DisbursementArrangements
Disbursements from the Loan will initially be made inthe traditional method (replenishment and
reimbursement with full documentation or against statement o f expenditure). The Financial Monitoring
Report (FMR) based disbursementswould be adopted from April 1,2004, subject to satisfactory operation
o f the financial management system, and the preparation o f regular, timely and adequate quality FMRs
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank. A Special Account would be maintainedinthe Reserve Bank o f
India; and would be operated by the Department o f Economic Affairs (DEA) of GOI. The authorized
allocation o f the Special Account would be USSlO million that represent about 3 months o f initial
estimated disbursements from the IBRDLoan. The Special Account would be operated inaccordance with
the Bank's operational policies. The project will submit withdrawal applications to Controller o f Aid,
Accounts and Audit (CAA&A) inDEA for onward submission to the Bank for replenishment o f the special
account or reimbursement.
Supervision Plan. The project would be supervisedon a bi-annual basis. The supervision plan will include
the scrutiny o fProject Monitoring Reports for the project and financial statements for the PIU and NHAI.
 Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)

                                  Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds

            Expenditure Category              Amount in US$million      I         Financing Percentage
 l(a) Civil Works for Bypass Construction              191.45                                80%
 l(b) Civil Works for Corridor Management               6.93            ij                   80%

 l(c) Civil Works (R&R and EMP)                         13.15                                90%
 2. Goods                                               12.02             100% o f foreign or ex-factory costs and
                                                                                80% of other itemsprocured
                                                                                        domestically
 3(al Services Providedbv consulting firms              12.68                     90% o f total expenditure
 3(b) NGO services and training                          1.37                               100%

Total Project Costs with Bank                         237.60
 Financing
                               Front-end fee            2.40
Total                                                 240.00
Note: 80% of the expenditurefor civil works under I(b) would bejinanced by the Bank Loan up to a total
maximum amount of US$6,930,000




                                                    - 37 -

Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):

Disbursements will be made on the basis o f Statement o f Expenditure for (a) civil works for contracts not
exceeding US$3,000,000; (b) goods for contracts not exceeding USS500,OOO; (c) consultants for contracts
not exceeding US$lOO,OOO for firms and US$50,000 for individuals; and (d) all R&R costs and training.

Retroactive Financing: Retroactive Financing upto a limitof USS5.0 million is available to cover eligible
project expenditures as agreedwith the Bank and incurred after June 01,2003. Retroactive Financing will
support project costs pertainingto civil works (US$3.2 million), consultant services (US$1.2 million) and
eligible R&R expenses (USrS0.6 million).




                                                  - 38 -

                               Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
                                 INDIA: Allahabad Bypass Project

IProject Schedule                                           Planned                         Actual
 Time taken to prepare the project (months)              12                                21
 First Bank mission (identification)                     08/27/2001                        08/27/2001

/Appraisal mission departure                    I        05/20/2002               I        0412112003    I
 Negotiations                                            09/02/2003                        09/02/2003
 Planned Date of Effectiveness                            12/20/2003

Preparedby:
NationalHighways Authority of India


Preparationassistance:
Partly fundedby the Second National Highway Project (Ln 3470-IN, Cr 2365-IN) and partly by NHAI's
own resource.

Bank staff who worked on the projec' included:
         Name                                            Speciality
 Zhi Liu                                 Task Team Leader, Transport Economist
 A. K.Swaminathan                        Highway Engineer
 Ani1Bhandari                            Transport Specialist, Institutional Strengthening
 Sujit Das                               Highway Engineer
 Sonia Chand Sandhu                      Environmental Specialist
 Mridula Singh                           Social Development Specialist
 Arnab Bandyopadhyay                     Highway Engineer
 Tapas Paul                              Environmental Specialist
 N.Raman                                 Procurement Specialist
 Priya Goel                              Financial Management Specialist
 Venkat Rao Bayana                       Social Development Consultant
 Piers Vickers                           Transport Specialist
 ErnstHuning                             Institutional Development Consultant
 Manmohan Singh Bajaj                    Procurement Specialist
 Isabel Chatterton                       Financial Specialist
 Raj Soopramanien                        Counsel
 Vikram Raghavan                         Counsel
 Hyacinth Brown                          Finance Officer
 Irene Christy                           ProgramAssistant
 SangeetaAnand                           ProgramAssistant
 Rajesh Singh                            ProgramAssistant




                                                   -39 -

                           Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                              INDIA: Allahabad Bypass Project


A. Project ImplementationPlan
       NHAI Allahabad Bypass Project, Borrower's Project ImplementationPlan, July 2003.
               -

B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.      Financial Management Assessment o f NHAI, by project team financial management specialist,
        April-June, 2003.
2.      Independent Assessment o f Biodiversity Impacts of Allahabad Bypass Project, a study
        commissioned to independent consultant, March 2003.

C. Other
1.      NHAI- Reporton Selection ofAlternatives. November, 2001.
2.      NHAI DetailedProjectReport, Allahabad Bypass Project, from Km 158 (Kokhraj) to Km 245
               -
        NHAI- Allahabad Bypass Project: EnvironmentalImpactAssessmentReport, July 2003.
        (Handia) o f NH-2, April 2003.
3.
4.      NHAI IndiaAllahabadBypass Project: EnvironmentalAssessment Summary, March2003.
5.      NHAI IndiaAllahabad Bypass Project: Environmentalmanagement Plan Package 1, July 2003.
               --
6.      NHAI- IndiaAllahabad Bypass Project: Environmentalmanagement Plan Package 2, July 2003.
7.      NHAI- IndiaAllahabad Bypass Project: Environmentalmanagement Plan Package3, July 2003.
                                                                                ---
8.      NHAI IndiaAllahabad Bypass Project: ResettlementAction Plan, July 2003.
9.      NHAI IndiaAllahabadBypass Project: Independent ReviewReport, April 2003.
10.     NHAI Draft TOR for Operational Manual for Environmental and Social Management System,
               ---
        June 2003.
11.     NHAI Draft TOR for RoadUser SatisfactionSurveys, June 2003.
               -
*Includingelectronic files




                                                 - 40 -

                                         Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                                  INDIA: Allahabad Bypass Project
                                                              14-Jul-2003
                                                                                                                       Difference between expected
                                                                                                                                and actual
                                                                   Original Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements*
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                      IBRD         IDA                  GEF   Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
                                                                                                                              ~
PO67606     2003 UPROADS                                        488.00       0.00                 0.00    0.00   473.12        14.02      0.00
PO71272     2003 AP RURAL POV REDUCTION                           0.00      150.03                0.00    0.00    159.10        4.51      0.00
PO72123     2003 Tech/Engg Quality ImprovementProject             0.00      250.00                0.00    0.00   258.77         0.65      0.00
PO73094     2003 AP COMM FORESTMANG                               0.00      108.00                0.00    0.00    116.87       -2.08      0.00
PO50649     2003 TN ROADS                                       348.00       0.00                 0.00    0.00    348.00        0.00      0.00
PO76467     2003 Chan DRPP                                        0.00      112.56                0.00    0.00    115.23        0.00      0.00
PO75056     2003 Food & Drugs Capacity Building Project           0.00       54.03                0.00    0.00    55.65         0.00      0.00
PO50668     2002 MUMBAI URBANTRANSPORTPROJECT                   463.00       79.00                0.00    0.00    509.19        9.18      0.00
PO50653     2002 KARNATAKA RWSS II                                0.00      151.60                0.00    0.00    161.64        4.67      0.00
PO69889     2002 MIZORAMROADS                                     0.00       60.00                0.00    0.00    60.57         2.27      0.00
PO71033     2002 KARN TANK MGMT                                   0.00       98.90                0.00    0.00    108.04        3.43      0.00

PO74018     2002 Gujarat EmergencyEarthquake Reconstruct          0.00      442.80                0.00    0.00    389.85      233.16      0.00
PO72539     2002 KERALASTATETRANSPORT                           255.00        0.00                0.00     0.00   236.12        0.12      0.00
PO50647     2002 UTTARPRADESHWATER SECTOR RESTRUCTU               0.00      149.20                 0.00    0.00   157.37       33.18      0.00
PO40610     2002 RAJ WSR?                                         0.00      140.00                 0.00    0.00   147.92       10.59      0.00
PO50656     2001 TECHN EDUC 111                                   0.00       64.90                 0.00    0.00    54.99       15.66      0.00
PO38334     2001 RAJ POWER I                                     180.00       0.00                 0.00    0.00   117.31       63.81      0.00
PO59242     2001 MPDPIP                                           0.00      110.10                 0.00    0.00   105.55       25.98      0.00
PO55454     2001 KERALA RWSS                                      0.00       65.50                 0.00    0.00    62.62       12.67      0.00
PO55455     2001 RAJ DPEP II                                      0.00       74.40                 0.00    0.00    61.57        0.76      0.00
PO71244     2001 Grand Trunk Road ImprovementProject             589.00       0.00                 0.00    0.00   505.52       151.52     0.00
PO70421     2001 KARN HWYS                                       360.00       0.00                 0.00    0.00   315.27       54.27      0.00
PO10566     2001 GUJARAT HWYS                                    381.OO       0.00                 0.00    0.00   293.58       140.58     0.00
PO67543     2001 LEPROSYII                                        0.00       30.00                 0.00    0.00    12.58         1.91     0.00
PO67216     2001 KAR WSHD DEVELOPMENT                              0.00     100.40                 0.00    0.00   107.00       25.94      0.00
PO35173     2001 POWERGRIDII                                     450.00       0.00                 0.00    0.00   297.42       93.42      0.00
PO49770     2000 REN EGY II                                       80.00      50.00                 0.00    0.00   112.69       38.64      0.00
PO50657     2000 UP Health Systems Development Project             0.00     110.00                 0.00    0.00    97.50       25.96      0.00
PO50667     2000 UP DPEP 111                                       0.00     182.40                 0.00    0.00    73.68        50.13      0.00
PO10505     2000 RAJASTHANDPlP                                     0.00     100.48                 0.00    0.00    95.65        42.80      0.00
PO67330     2000 IMMUNIZ4TIONSTRENGTHENINGPROJECT                  0.00     142.60                 0.00    0.00    56.05        32.01      0.00
PO35172     2000 UP POWER SECTOR RESTRUCTURINGPROJEC             150.00       0.00                 0.00    0.00    45.50        31.50      0.00
PO09972     2000 NATIONALHIGHWAYS111 PROJECT                     516.00       0.00                 0.00    0.00   398.43       168.53      0.00
PO59501     2000 IN-TAfor Econ ReformProject                       0.00      45.00                 0.00    0.00    41.16        12.96      0.00
PO45049     2000 APDPIP                                            0.00     111.00                 0.00    0.00    68.09        17.50      0.00
PO55456     2000 IN-TelecommunicationsSector ReformTA             62.00       0.00                 0.00    0.00    56.42        51.42      0.00
PO41264     1999 WTRSHD MGMT HILLSII                              85.00      50.00                 0.00    0.00    49.43        38.46      0.00
PO50651     1999 MAHARASHHEALTHSYS                                 0.00     134.00                 0.00    0.00     99.75       77.54      0.00
PO45051     1999 2ND NATL HIV/AIDSCO                               0.00     191.00                 0.00    0.00     89.21       49.75      0.00
PO45050     1999 RAJASTHANDPEP                                     0.00      85.70                 0.00    0.00     50.71       69.56      0.00
PO49537     1999 AP POWERAPL I                                   210.00       0.00                 0.00   20.31     17.68       37.99      0.00
PO50637     1999 TN URBANDEV II                                  105.00       0.00                 0.00    0.00     28.65       15.01      0.00
PO50646     1999 UP SODIC LANDSII                                  0.00     194.10                 0.00    0.00   101.73        72.51      0.00
PO35624     1998 DIVAGRC SUPPORT                                  79.90      50.00                 0.00    0.00     33.86       35.62     18.22
P035827     1998 WOMEN 8 CHILD DEVLPM                              0.00     300.00                 0.00    0.00   170.39       106.83      0.00
PO38021     1998 DPEP 111 (BIHAR)                                  0.00     152.00                 0.00    0.00   110.11       106.82      0.00
PO35169     1998 UP FORESTRY                                       0.00      52.94                 0.00    0.00      8.44        9.19      0.00
PO10561     1998 NATLAGR TECHNOLOGY                               96.80     100.00                 0.00    0.00     81.31       86.33     16.40
PO10496     1998 ORISSAHEALTHSYS                                   0.00      76.40                 0.00    0.00     58.47       42.30      0.00
PO49477     1998 KERALA FORESTRY                                   0.00      39.00                 0.00    0.00     13.06       12.89      0.00
PO49385     1998 AP ECONRESTRUCTURIN                             301.30     241.90                 0.00    0.00   195.65       186.80      0.00
PO35158     1997 AP IRRIGATION111                                175.00     150.00                 0.00   45.00     65.43      117.91     17.91
PO10531     1997 REPRODUCTIVEHEALTH1                               0.00     248.30                 0.00    0.00     79.74       76.45     76.49




                                                                   -41 -

                                                                                                          Difference between expected
                                                                                                                   and actual
                                                       Original Amount in US$ Millions                           disbursements'

Project ID  FY    Purpose                         IBRD          IDA                    GEF   Cancel. Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
PO10473     1997 TUBERCULOSISCONTROL                  0.00      142.40                  0.00    0.00   78.06      86.04       0.00
PO10511     1997 MALARIACONTROL                       0.00      164.80                  0.00   46.50   55.95     104.57       0.00
PO36062     1997 ECODEVELOPMENT                       0.00       28.00                20.00     5.86    3.91      11.55       4.63
PO43728     1997 ENV CAPACITYBLDG TA                  0.00       50.00                  0.00    0.94    8.30      14.04       0.00
PO09584     1997 ECODEVELOPMENT                       0.00        0.00                  0.00    2.34    1.94       5.67       0.00
PO44449     1997 RURALWOMEN'S DEVELOPMENT             0.00       19.50                  0.00    6.72    6.50      14.51      -3.72
P009995     1997 STATE HIGHWAYSI(AP)                350.00        0.00                  0.00    0.00   59.48      59.48    -200.52
PO49301     1997 A.P. EMERG. CYCLONE                 50.00      100.00                  0.00   19.00   10.11      33.76      14.76
PO10480     1996 BOMBAY SEW DISPOSAL                 167.00      25.00                  0.00   22.00   15.71      39.82       8.44
PO10485     1996 HYDROLOGYPROJECT                     0.00      142.00                  0.00   19.64   10.15      51.25      27.60
PO35825     1996 STATE HEALTHSYS II                   0.00      350.00                  0.00    0.00   36.15      73.94       0.00
PO35170     1996 ORISSA POWERSECTOR                 350.00        0.00                  0.00   95.00   53.79     148.79       3.30
PO10529     1996 ORISSA WRCP                          0.00      290.90                  0.00    0.00   55.03      80.57      31.59
PO10461     1995 MADRAS WAT SUP I1                   275.80       0.00                  0.00  189.30    6.63     195.93        1.13
PO10476     1995 TAMIL NADU WRCP                      0.00      282.90                  0.00   25.01   29.14      94.26      63.16
PO10522     1995 ASSAM RURAL INFRA                    0.00       126.00                 0.00    0.00   19.99      34.30      24.63

                                           Total:  6567.80     6769.74               20.00    497.62  8000.49    3561.40    104.02




                                                       - 42 -

                                               INDIA
                                       STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                     HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                          May 30 - 2003
                                        InMillions USDollars

                                                        Committed                  Disbursed
                                                      IFC                        IFC
FY Approval      Company                         Loan  Equity  Quasi Partic Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
2000             IndAsia Fund                     0.00  15.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.61    0.00   0.00
1996             India Direct Fnd                 0.00   1.22   0.00  0.00   0.00  6.66    0.00   0.00
1985l90l94       India Lease                      0.00   0.30   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.30    0.00   0.00
2001             Indian Seamless                 10.50   0.00  0.00   0.00   6.00  0.00    0.00   0.00
0193196          IndoRama                         0.00   1.I2  0.00   0.00   0.00  1.72    0.00   0.00
1996             Indus I1                         0.00   4.25  0.00   0.00   0.00  4.25    0.00   0.00
1996             Indus I1Mgmt                     0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00
1992             Indus VC Mgt Co                  0.00   0.01   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.01    0.00   0.00
1992             Indus VCF                        0.00   0.60   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.60    0.00   0.00
1992             Info Tech Fund                   0.00   0.62   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.62    0.00   0.00
1992194197       Ispat Industries                 0.00   3.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  3.00    0.00   0.00
2001             Jetair                           0.00   0.00  15.00  0.00   0.00  0.00    15.00  0.00
2001             LeamingUniverse                  0.00   0.25   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.25    0.00   0.00
1981190193       M&M                              0.00   0.55   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.55    0.00   0.00
2001             MIECL                            0.00   1.62   0.00  0.00   0.00  1.15    0.00   0.00
2002             MMFSL                           10.44   0.00   1.46  0.00  10.44  0.00    7.46   0.00
2003             MSSL                             0.00   2.23   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00
1996199100       Moser Baer                      29.33  14.80   0.00  0.00  29.33  14.80   0.00   0.00
                 NICCO-UCO                        2.24   0.00   0.00  0.00   2.24  0.00    0.00   0.00
1992196197       NewPath                          0.00  10.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  4.50    0.00   0.00
2003             Orchid                           0.00   6.08  10.00  0.00   0.00  6.08    0.00   0.00
2001             Owens Coming                    18.24   0.00   0.00  0.00  18.24  0.00    0.00   0.00
1997             Prism Cement                    11.25   5.02   0.00  6.00  11.25  5.02    0.00   6.00
1995             RCIHL                            0.00   1.97   0.00  0.00   0.00   1.97   0.00   0.00
2001             RTL                              0.00   0.45   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.45     0.00  0.00
2001             RainCalcining                    0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00     0.00  0.00
1995198          SAPL                             0.00   0.07   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.07     0.00  0.00
1997             SREI                            10.00   0.00   5.00  0.00  10.00  0.00     5.00  0.00
1997100          Sara Fund                        0.00   5.94   0.00  0.00   0.00  5.94     0.00  0.00
1995             Spryance                         0.00   1.oo   0.00  0.00   0.00   1.oo    0.00  0.00
2001103          Sundaram Home                   10.65   0.00   0.00  0.00  10.65  0.00     0.00  0.00
2000102          TCFC FinanceLtd                  0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00     0.00  0.00
0                TCWIICICI                        0.00   6.45   0.00  0.00   0.00  6.45     0.00  0.00
1998             TDICI-VECAUS I1                  0.00   0.15   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.15     0.00  0.00
1990             TISCO                            0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00     0.00  0.00
1981186W9192l94  Tanflora Park                    0.00   0.5 1  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00     0.00  0.00
2000             Tata Electric                    0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00     0.00  0.00
1989190194       Titan Industries                 0.00   0.51   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.51     0.00  0.00
1987188190193    UCAL.                            0.00   0.38   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.38    0.00  0.00
1989             UnitedRiceland                  10.00   0.00   0.00  0.00  10.00   0.00    0.00  0.00
1996             UshaBeltron                     21.oo   3.60   0.00  0.00  15.00   3.60    0.00  0.00
2002             VARUN                            0.00   0.36   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.36    0.00  0.00
1991193196101    Vysya Bank                       0.00   3.66   0.00  0.00   0.00   3.66    0.00  0.00
2001             WIV                              0.00   2.05   0.00  0.00   0.00  2.05     0.00  0.00
1991
                        Total Portfolio:        196.16 191.48  37.46  32.50 111.12 153.76  27.46  22.64




                                                - 43 -

                                             Approvals PendingCommitment
FY Approval   Company                      Loan     Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000          APCL                          7.10       0.00     1.90     0.00
2003          Alok                         17.50       0.00     2.50     0.00
2003          BHF                          20.45       0.00     0.00     0.00
2003          CCIL Swap                     1S O       0.00     0.00     0.00
2003          Dataquest Mgmt.               0.00       1.oo     0.00     0.00
2003          Dewan Housing                12.56       0.00     0.00     0.00
2002          EscortsTelecom               32.00       0.00     15.00   30.00
2001          GI Wind Farms                 9.79       0.98     0.00     0.00
2003          HDFC - Loan                 100.00       0.00     0.00    100.00
2003          L&T                          50.00       0.00     0.00     0.00
2003          Max Healthcare               18.00       0.00     0.00     0.00
2003          Niko Resources               40.00       0.00     0.00     0.00
2003          SPL                           5.30       3.60     0.00     5.30
2002          TELCO1                       67.00       0.00     0.00     0.00
2001          Vysya Bank                    0.00       0.00     0.00     0.00

              Total PendingCommitment:    381.21       5.58     19.40   135.30




                                        - 44 -

                                                       Annex 10: Country at a Glance
                                                   INDIA: Allahabad Bypass Project

POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                                   South       Low-
                                                                       lndia          Asia    Income           Developmentdlamond'
2001
Population,mid-year(millions)                                       1,033.4          1,355      2,459                           Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                      470           460         420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                      480.8           617       1,030
Average annual growth, 1995-01                                                                                                         T
Population (%)                                                           1.8           1.9         1.9
Laborforce (%)                                                           2.3           2.4         2.4         GNI                                      Gross
                                                                                                               Per                                     primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                                                          capita                              enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)                         29
Urban population(% of totalpopulation)                                   26             28         32                                  I
Lifeexpectancy at birth (years)                                          63             63         59                                  i
Infantmortality (per 1,000livebirths)                                    69             74         77
Childmalnutrition(% of children under5)                                  47             47                             Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                       88             87         76
Illiteracy I%of populationage 15+)                                       42             45         38
Gross primary enrollment I%of school-agepopulation)                     101            100         96
    Male                                                                 109           110        102           WUi"       lndia        Low-incomegroup

    Female                                                               92             90         86

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                            1982        1992          2001       2002           Economicratios.
GDP (US$ billions)                                         188.0      266.9          460.6      481.4
Grossdomestic InvestmenffGDP                                22.4        21.9          22.5        22.4
Exportsof goods and services/GDP                              6.1        8.6          13.8        13.3                               Trade
Grossdomestic savingslGDP                                   18.6        22.0          23.4        24.0
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                                   19.9        21.9          25.3        25.9                                 5
CurrentaccountbalancelGDP                                    -2.0       -0.6           -0.6        0.2
Interest paymentslGDP                                         0.3        1.3           0.9         0.8          3omestic                           Investment
Total debt/GDP                                              12.1        32.0          21.6        20.2          savings

Total debtservicelexports                                   11.1        29.2          14.0        11.8
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                                          14.7
Presentvalue of debffexports                                                                      89.8
                                                                                                                                 Indebtedness
                                             1982-92     1992-02        2001          2002    2002-06
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                               5.6         6.1        3.9            5.5        6.0
GDP per capita                                    3.4         4.3        2.1            3.7        4.5            _I.w*.vxI lndia        Low-incomegroup

Ex~ortsof aoods and services                      6.1        12.8       23.4            6.0       10.7         l : r I
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                            1982        1992          2001       2002           Growthof Investmentand GDP ("A)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                  37.4       31.5          24.9        25.0
Industry                                                     25.3       26.4          26.6        25.9
    Manufacturing                                            16.3       16.1          15.7        15.3
Services                                                     37.2       42.1          48.5        49.2
Privateconsumption                                           70.2       66.7          65.1        65.4
Generalgovernment consumption                                10.1       11.4           13.1       12.8
Importsof goods and services                                  8.8        8.6           14.5       13.9

                                                         1982-92 1992-02              2001       2002
 (average annualgrowth)                                                                                        Growthof exportsand Imports("A)

Agriculture                                                   3.0        3.0           -0.4        5.7                                                        I
                                                                                                               45 T
 Industry                                                     6.8        6.4            6.6        3.3
    Manufacturing                                             7.0        7.1            7.3        3.4
Services                                                      6.9        8.2            5.6        6.8
 Privateconsumption                                           5.4        5.5           -1.1        5.4
 Generalgovernmentconsumption                                 6.8        7.3            0.6        7.2
 Grossdomestic investment                                     5.4        7.5            9.4        3.0
 Importsof goods and services                                 5.4        13.7           6.5        3.5

 Note: 2002 refers to 2001-02; data are preliminaryestimates.
 * The diamonds show four key indicatorsin the country (in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing,the diamondwill be incomplete




                                                                                  - 45 -

                                                                                                                            India

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                          1982   1992     2001    2002
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                           13.6   15.6       3.9     3.1i"~
Implicit GDP deflator                     10.3   13.8       4.5     3.5
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grantsJ
Current revenue                                            19.6    19.2                 97      98      a9      00       0,
Current budget balance                                     -8.6    -8.1
Overall surplusideficit                                   -10.8   -11.8                wa-GDP       deflator *CPI


                                                                                                                                I
TRADE
                                          1982   1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                            Exportand importlevels (US$mill.)
Total exports (fob)                      8,697  18,266   44,894 44,915
 Marine products                           313     585    1,396  1,218   ~ _ ~ , o o o ,

 Ores and minerals                         463    930     1,155  1,214
 Manufactures                            5,547  13,148   34,391 33,241
   Gems and jewehy                         849  2,738     7,384  7,306    50 000

   Readymade garments                      733  2,199     5,578  5,004
Total imports (cif)                      15,970 21,064   59,264 57,618    25 000
 Food                                    1,446     275    1,443  2,044
 Fuel and energy                         5,832  5,325    15,650 14,000
                                                                                                                                I
 Capital goods                           2,209  4,233     8,941  9,315          0

Export price index (1995=100)               96     104       94     90                 96     97    98    99     00      01

Import price index (1995=lOOJ              125     110      100     93                     Q   Exports           Imports
Terms of trade /1995=100)                   77      95       94     96                                                        O2



BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                          1982   1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                             Current account balance to GDP (%)                   I
Exports of goods and servlces            11,457 23,288   63,764 65,201
 Software exports                                         6,341  7,174   1'1

Imports of goods and services            17,666 24,879   75,656 73,705
Resource balance                         -6,209 -1,591  -11,892  -8,504
Net income                                 213  -3,830   -3,821  -2,654
Net current transfers                    2,314   3,783   12,798  12,125
Current account balance                  -3,682 -1,638   -2,915     967
Financing items (net)                    5,950  -1,757   -1,581 -12,462
Changes in net reserves                  -2,268  3,395    4,496  11,495
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$millions)    4,390   9,220   42,281  54,106
Conversion rate (DEC,/oca/iUS$)             9.0   24.5     45.7    47.7

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                          1982   1992     2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                             Composition of 2002 debt (US$ mlll.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     22,709 85,421   99,433  97,071
  IBRD                                    1,181  8,459    7,079   6,835
  IDA                                    5,906  14,203                                         G: 2,951
                                                         18,888  19,269                                   A: 6,835


Total debt service                        1,586  7,861   10,868   9,282
  IBRD                                      137  1,170    1,423   1,089                                                  19,269
  IDA                                        60    242      506     565
Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                          750     461      382     336     F 44,640
  Official creditors                      1,103  2,895     -237    -264                                                  D 4.518

  Private creditors                        829   1,467    4,103  -1,608
  Foreign direct investment                   0     97    2,165   2,342
  Portfolio equity                            0      6    3,026   2,760                                                  58

World Bank program
  Commitments                            2,503   2,186      999   2,244    A IBRD
                                                                             -                                     E . Bilateral
  Disbursements                           1,207  2,184    1,761   1,636    B IDA          D Other multilateral          .
                                                                                              ~                    F Private
                                                                                                                       ~

  Principal repayments                       86    669    1,361   1,148    C IMF
                                                                             .-                                    G Short-term
  Net flows                               1,122  1,516      400     488
  Net transfers                           1,011    772     -168     -18


                                                       - 46 -

          Additional Annex 1I:Environment & Social Assessment, EMP and RAP
                                  INDIA: Allahabad Bypass Project

1.       Project Description
The proposed Allahabad Bypass i s an access controlled, 4-lane divided toll road, starting at Km 158 o f
NH-2 near Kokhraj inKaushambi district and ending at Km245 o f NH-2 near Handia inAllahabad
District, with an overall length o f about 84.7 km. The bypass i s proposed to avoid the traffic congestion in
the historical city o f Allahabad. It will pass through predominantly agricultural lands. The entire
Allahabad bypass project is dividedinto three construction packages: (i) Ganga bridgewith river
                                                                             ABP-1:
training work from km 163.267 to km 164.280 (1.03 km); (ii) from km 158.000 to km 163.267
                                                                  ABP-2:
and km 164.280 to km 198.0 (38.987 km); and (iii)       ABP-3: from km 198.0 to km242.708 (44.708 km).
Salient features of the bypass alignment are:

         Affected Districts                             Kaushambi, Pratapgarh and Allahabad
 Total land to be acquired            781hectares (ha) (of which 687 ha private and 94 haGovernmentland)
 Nature o f land                      Mostly Agricultural
 Villages to be affected              110 Villages
 Householdsto be affected             97
 Structures to be affected            267
 Trees to be cut                      3,298 (Private trees on new alignment and trees on existing NH2 sections)
 State Highway Crossing               3 (SH-38, SH-7 and SH-9)
 Major Rivers                         3 (Ganga, Doab and Mansaita)
 Canals                               32
 Drain, Nullahs and Stream            29
 Underpasses                          39 (7 pedestrians and32 vehicular-cum-pedestrian)

2.       Environmental and Forestry Clearances
The project has obtained the following clearancesfrom the central andstate governments: (1)
environmentalclearance from the Ministry o f Environment & Forests (MOEF); (2) forest clearance from
the MOEF regional office; (3) permission from state forest department for private tree cutting; (4) No
Objection Certificate from the UP State Pollution Control Board (SPCB), as per the EIA Notification,
 1994; (5) clearance from the SPCB under the Air Act, the Water Act and the Cess Act; (6) clearance o f
GroundWater Board for withdrawal o f ground water for construction; and (8) clearance for sand mining
from river authorities.
NHAIhas applied for the State Forest Department clearance for trees cutting from the ROW of existing
NH-2 portion, and expects to obtain the clearance before civil works start. Inaddition, the contractors will
obtain consent from the SPCB during the implementationperiod for setting up o f hot mix plants, batching
plant, and constructioncamps.

3.       Environmental Scenarios: Existing Situation, Impact Assessment and Mitigation
Climate: The bypasswill be located inthe humidsub-tropical region with markedmonsoon effects. The
temperature varies from extreme hightemperaturesup to 47C insummer to a low o f 4C inwinter. The
annual average temperature i s around 27C. The average wind speedi s inthe range o f 4-5 km/ho f this
area. The yearly average rainfall inthe project area is about 89 cm o f which over 90% occurs during the
rainy season. The average relative humidityi s 64% and maximum i s 90%. N o change inthe
macro-climatic setting (precipitation, temperature and wind) i s envisaged due to the project.




                                                        - 47 -

Geology and Seismicity: The project areais geomorphologically a part o fthe Ganga plain. According to
the Bureauo f Indian Standards zoning map (IS:1893) the Allahabad region is a low-risk seismic zone 11.
The entire lengtho f Allahabad bypass falls inthis Zone I1with a seismic coefficient o f 0.02. Road
construction inthis area will have little impact on its overall earthquake potential since no blasting i s
envisaged at the construction site.

Hydrology and Drainage: The proposedbypass passes through an almost flat terrain, with an average
gradient o f 16 cm/Km. Impacts on the flowing water bodies will mainly occur during construction period
due to the diversion o fwatercourses. This will cause constriction, increasevelocity at the downstream of
the bridges and increase sediment load. The road design takes into consideration the cross-pavement
drainage and local flooding or water logging. Rivers inproject-influenced area are prone to occasional
floods. To avoid damage to the pavement and road sections, the carriageway is kept above the highflood
level, andadequately-sized drains inthe median and on either side o f service roads are planned to avoid
flooding o f road surface. Bridgesover the rivers and streams, and several other cross-drainage structures
will be providedalong the natural depression across the bypass to maintain the natural flow o f water. It is
expected that the proposed bypass would not have any significant influence on soil fertility on the land on
either side o f the alignment.

Water Bodies and Aquatic Eco System: The proposed bypass alignment crosses a total of 78 water
bodies, including streams, drains, canals and three rivers (Ganga, Doab and Mansaita), 26 water tanks, 26
pumphouses, 37 handpumps and 44 wells. Ground water table ofthe study areais subject to seasonal
variations and i s generally between 10-15m. The quality o f water is by-and-large acceptable, except for
alkalinity and hardness for some bore wells. A high level o f Total SuspendedSolids has beenobserved in
Doab river, whereas Total Dissolved Solids for Ganga and Mansaita Rivers are higher than Doab River. A
number o f wells andhandpumps located withinthe ROW o f proposed alignment, will be either partially or
completely filled up for construction. The project envisages replacement o f each source o f water supply
before removing them. The locations o f these new sources will be decided inconsultation with affected
population.
No major impact has beenanticipated inthe river ecology due to the construction ofbridges over Ganga or
other streams except the increase inturbidity during constructionphase. Precautions have been
incorporatedinthe engineering design, and construction schedule to minimize the impact on river ecology.
The proposed bypass alignment does not affect aquatic water bodies and wetlands other than the ponds that
will be relocated. Marshy lands that appear on the alignment are seasonal. Therefore, there will be no
significant impact on inlandwater bodies.
Numerous irrigation canals that crisscross the study area are unlikelyto be subjected to run-off discharges
because they have properly raised bunks on their banks. Inthe operation phase, there i s little chance o f
degradation of water quality and the aquatic ecosystem duringnormal operations except accidental
discharges from drainage o f workers' camps and from spillage invehicle parking and/or fuel and lubricant
storage areas. Such accidents could be potentially disastrous, but the probability o f such an accident i s
quite low. The soil could also quickly percolate to underlying aquifer, resultingin any pollutant discharge
percolating into the depths o f the earth.
Air Quality and Noise: The area will be impacted by air pollution both duringconstruction and operation
stages. The major impacts i s generation o f dust, likely from the quarries, borrow areas and stone crushing
units duringconstruction. There also will be generation ofexhaust gases, likely duringthe due to
movement o f heavy machinery for clearance of the ROW for construction. Highlevels o f S02, HC and
NOx are likely to be emitted from hot-mix plant operations, and heating process duringbitumen
production. Inthe operation stage the major impact on air quality will be due to plying o f vehicles.
Proposedmitigationmeasure include water spraying, covering vehicles during transportation, and ensuring


                                                      - 48 -

emissions from vehicles andmachinery are within stipulated limits. Monthly air quality monitoring
measureswill be carried out.
The prediction ofnoise levels has beenmade for the years 2006,2026 and2036 usingthe FHWA
Transport Noise Model. As per the predictedresults, the predictednoise levels for day time are well within
Central Pollution ControlBoardlimitsup to the horizon year 2026. Night-timenoise levels exceedinthe
horizon year 2026. Noise levels will increase during construction phase due to movement o f construction
machinery and vehicles, and other allied activities such as establishment o f workers camps, stockyards.
Moreover, as these activities are not likely to be placednear settlements the impacts o f increasednoise will
be negligible. Mitigationmeasuresinclude fitting vehicles and equipmentwill be fitted with silencers and
subject to regular checks, maintaining distance between construction sites and hospitals, educational
institutes, and providing them with suitable noise barriers.

Soils Quality and Erosion:As the soil is alluvial with high silt composition, it will cause siltation o f
nearby water bodies. Soil erosion is not a prominent feature inproject influence area. Compaction o f soil
will occur in the due to movement o f heavy machinery and vehicles, setting up o f construction camps and
stockyards. However, this is a short duration impact. Appropriate measures have been specified inthe
Environment Management Plan (EMP) to minimize the area of soil compaction. Loss o fproductive soil is
anticipated due to earth-borrowing, but is minimizedby the use o f pond ash as a fill material in the
embankment. Provisionhas been made inEMP to ensure that no productive areas are usedfor these
borrowing, or allied activities.
Increased erosion is possible, but adequate slope protection measures are proposed. To prevent the eroded
material from entering the watercourse, silt fencing or cascade arrangementswill be provided at the endo f
ditches as they enter into the water bodies. Lining with stone pitching and filter blankets are also proposed.
No soil erosion is envisaged when the road is inoperation as all the slopes and embankmentsof the project
road shall be stabilized through sound engineeringtechniques. Soil contamination may take place due to
moving vehicles or solid waste contaminationfrom the labor camp set up. The sites where construction
vehicles are parked and serviced are likely to be contaminated becauseo f leakage or spillage o f fuel,
lubricants, asphalt or bitumenfrom constructionvehicle and hot mix plants. Refuse and solid waste from
labor camps can also contaminate the soil. Unwarranted disposal o f construction spoil and debris will add
to soil contamination. This contamination is likely to be carried over to water bodies incase o f dumping
beingdone nearwater body. To mitigate this, the following are planned - anti-spillage measures during
refueling, locating refueling sites away from water bodies, providingoil interceptors, and disposal o f spills
inaccordancewith the SPCB guidelines.

Use of PondAsh: The project will use 6.7 million cubic meters o f pond ash from the Firoz Gandhi
Thermal Power Station at Unchhahar inUP. This will have significant positive environment impact. Pond
ash will be transported over an average distance o f about 80 kmto the site on covered dumpers. The haul
roads will be improved to minimize dirt anddust, ifrequired. The EMPs contain measuresto avoid
contaminationo f ground and surface water due to leaching from pond ash storage, minimizing dust
generation, etc.

Quarriesand Crushers:The potential quarries identified are Dalla, Birohi, Kabrai, Banda and
Shankargarh quarries for obtaining sand and aggregates. These are operational quarries, approved by
Uttar PradeshPublic Works Department, and possessthe required environmental clearances. As no new
quarries are proposed, no new impacts are likely to arise due to quarrying operations. Though the quany
materials are to be transported over long distances to the construction sites, almost all the quarries
identifiedhave proper access roads, therefore, no major impacts duringthe haulage o fmaterials is
envisaged. To control dust generation along the haul roads, dust suppression measures will be enforced,
including covering o f vehicles during transportation.


                                                      - 49 -

Borrow Pits:Borrowing of earth, and thereby impacts on productive landhas beenlimitedby the use of
pond ash as fillmaterial in the highway embankment. Borrow pits are identified within 100-600 mo f
ROW along the bypass, for the residual requirement of 5.4 million cubic meter o fearth. Based on the total
requirement andavailability o f each soil type, estimateso f soil quantity to be obtained from each o f the
borrow areas have been worked out inaccordance with the national standards, recommended by the Indian
Roads Congress 1. Cartage o f the borrow materials to the construction sites i s o f significance, as almost
all such areas are accessible through dirt tracks only and therefore, spillage and compaction o f soil along
these tracks will be a significant impact. Specifications for the size and depth o f borrow pits, and height
andslant of stock-piles have beenlaiddown. Sandfor construction will be procuredfkom Yamuna
riverbednear Banda, where the sandminingis already permitted.Precautionary measure like covering o f
vehicles will be taken to avoid spillage during transportation.

Vegetation and Habitats: The area is predominantly cultivated land interruptedby scatteredhuman
settlements with cluster o f thatched houses, orchards and common native trees. Narrow strip o f grasses are
encountered at the riparianzone of the river Ganga and other flowing water bodies. The entire lengthof
Allahabad bypass falls mainly under the administrative control o f Kausambi and Allahabad forest
divisions. N o national park, sanctuary, wild life reserves or reserved forests are present innear vicinity.
The nearestwildlife sanctuary (Chitrakoot) is beyond 60 kms from the bypass alignment. Dueto
construction o f the Allahabad bypass 3298 trees have been identified to be cut which are common native
plants, no endangered or rare plants are present among them. The area is basically rural, and about 80
percent o f which i s agricultural land. Plenty o f plantations includingorchards are present inthis area.
Therefore, ecological effect o f loss o f trees would not be felt significantly. Plantation o f trees on the
roadside, along the median, and landscaping along the conidor will help incompensating and restoring loss
o f green coverage. Stored topsoil will be utilized to cover borrow areas and to filltree pits.
Impact on Flora and Fauna: Impact on the wild animals of this area will not be significant. The area
harbors 33 varieties of wild animals though population o f each species is very small. All o f these wild
animals migrate from one place to other, and prefer to stay near humansettlement, on the outskirts o f
villages, inthe riparian zone o f Ganga, other streams, natural drains and canals; grass patches and bushes
scatteredwithin the crop field or along the village roads. N o breeding/feeding grounds for any wild animal
are present within the project area. The plannedroad will not have a significant impact on the wild fauna
o f the area, as similar patches o f habitat are present nearby.
An independentassessment of impacts on bio-diversity inthe areahas been carriedout. The agricultural
landscapethrough which the proposed alignment passes through is dotted with many villages with a high
human density. With such high densities ina fertile cultivated area, it is highly improbable that any floral
values (forest patches), fauna diversity (wildlife, birds, etc) would be able to sustain themselves due to the
human disturbance factor. N o major wildlife occurs inthe alignment area which can be termedas critical
due to development o fthe road. The only large mammal with some significant presenceis the nilgaiwhich
occurs insmall groups across this landscape. Nilgai i s a highly adaptable species andi s often known to
occur across agricultural fields innorthem India, and there would not be any adverse impact on the Nilgai
population.
The alignment does not pass through any major wetland site or marshes except for the wetland (1.7 acres)
which is currently ina degraded condition due to extensive shrinkage by water hyacinth. Despite the fact
that the wetland will be impactedby the roaddevelopment the localwetland values are insignificant to
suggest a reversible action as a mitigative measure. Besides the wetland dries up insummer due to intense
heat. The Ganges river ecosystem near the Kokhraj end o f the alignment where the proposed bridge will be
constructed will not have any significant impact on fauna diversity o f the riverine ecosystem. The presence
o f Gangetic river dolphin inthis patch is very rare and any constructionwork on the bridge shouldbe taken
uponly duringthe leanmonths when water levels are low inthe river thereby minimizingany probable


                                                       - 50 -

 SN                 BudgetHead                                  Cost (INR)
  1.   Environmental MitigatiodEnhancement                       30,010,800
  2.   Monitoring                                                  4,999,000
  3.   Training                                                    2,324,000
  4.   Contingencies                                               1,866,690
                  Total                                         39,200,490

Implementation Arrangement: The project is preparedand will be implementedbyNHAIwith extensive
outsourcing to the private sector and close coordination with the relevant states. Within NHAI,the bypass
constructionwill be the direct responsibility o f Member (Technical), who will be supported by an on-site
PIU, and the institutional strengthening actions are the responsibility o f Member (Administration). A
high-level State Project Coordinating Committee in UP has been functional incoordinating with NHAIand


                                                     -51  -

facilitating land acquisition, resettlement, utilityshifting, and tree cutting and re-plantationactivities under
the TNHP and GTRIP. An additional environmentalmanager is recruited for the PIU.

5.          Social ImpactAssessment (SIA)

SIA Process. An SIA has been carriedout duringthe projectpreparation, consisting of the following
activities: (a) census and baseline socioeconomic survey o f the potentially affected population; (b)
consultations at village, district and state levels; (c) finalization o f entitlements andpreparationo f the RAP
and (d) finalizing implementationarrangements for the implementationo f the RAP, including monitoring
arrangements.
The SIA process beganwith the social screening that involvedpublic consultations at 9 locations on the
bypass alignments. The screening helpedidentify 5 bypass alignment options and their associatedsocial
impacts, and the selection o f the present alignment with the minimumadverse social impacts. Then, a more
detailed SIA on the selected alignment was conducted to assess baseline conditions andthe potential
impacts, to identify mitigationmeasures, and finally to prepare the RAP.
The SIA included census andsocioeconomic surveys to identifyall impactedpeople and to establishan
entitlement cut-off date for those entitledto Relocationand Rehabilitation (R&R) assistance or other
benefits from the project. A full census was undertakento document the status o f the potentially affected
titleholders andnon-titleholders within the alignment, with respect to their assets and sources o f livelihood.
This providedthe basisfor establishing a cut-off date determiningwho may be entitledto relocation
assistanceor other benefits from the project. However, the census carried out didnot cover families o f
each titleholders who are dependenton the affected asset. During implementation, disaggregated
information o f families o f eachtitleholder will be collected and R&R will be provided inaccordanceto the
entitlement framework. A detailed socioeconomic survey o f the all the affected population was also carried
out to develop the monitoring and evaluationparameters andto develop the database. The surveys
provided a baseline against which mitigationmeasures and support will be measured and includes a
comprehensive examination o f people's assets, incomes, important cultural or religious networks or sites,
and other sources o f income such as dependence on common property resources. An analysis o f survey
results included a gender analysis.
NHAIalso reviewedits R&R Policy developed for the previous Bank-fundedprojects (i.e. TNHP and
GTRIP) and assessed its applicability for the bypass project. And inconsultation with project affected
people and other key stakeholders andby enhancing the previous R&R Policy, NHAI has developed an
exclusive R&R Policy for the bypass project.
Public Consultation and Disclosure: The public consultations helpedachieve the following outcomes:
minimumdisplacement, reductions inlandacquisition, effective use ofcommunity knowledge inroute
alignments, raising awareness on road improvement and impacts, and involving communities inthe decision
making process. More importantly, through consultations NHAIsolicited the views and aspirations from
the community inthe formulation o f entitlement framework. Moreover, consultations helped identify the
locations o f underpassedoverpassesthat would be important for the community activities. The table below
provides more detailed information on the consultations organized at different locations.




                                                        - 52 -

                                                             No of Locations                Period (Dates)
 Screening                   LocalIVillage                           9                31/06/2001 - 02/07/2001
 RAP Preparation             LocalNillage                           110               15/12/2001 - 29/12/2001
                             District                                3               I11/01/2002 - 20/0112002
                             State                                   1               I25/2/2002

SocialCompositionof PAFs: A total of 8008 households will be affectedby the bypass project. The
social composition o f these Project Affected Families was revealed by the social surveys. O f the total
titleholders, the vulnerable group constitutes 21.4%, among which, the Schedule Tribes account for only
0.06%, Schedule Castes 11%, women-headed households 3.2%, and the Below-Poverty-Line 6.8%. The
composition o f family types is: joint families 44.5%, nuclear families 40.5%, and extended families 15%.
Interms ofoccupation, the PAFs are predominantly inagricultureinthe project area, with a few engaging
inservice activities inAllahabad.
6.       ResettlementAction Plan
NHAIhas prepared an R&R entitlement framework inaccordance with the Bank's OP 4.12 (Involuntary
Resettlement) and OD 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples) to cover all affectedpeople. It recognizes support for
sharecroppers, squatters, and vulnerable encroachers. The RAP is consistent with the R&R entitlement
framework for the project. The RAP is approved by NHAIManagement after the finalization o f the
entitlement framework.
Duringthe preparation ofthe RAP, NHAIhas attempted, to the extent possible, to minimizethe adverse
impacts. The bypass alignment was selected from seven alternative alignments, and it i s the one that
encompassesthe minimumadverse socioeconomic impacts along with other technical advantages. NHAI
has also managedreduce the width o f Right o f Way from previously proposed 120meters to 70 to 90
meters, resulting inthe avoidance o f about 6 villages and 137 structures.

As 87% of the project affected agricultural titleholders will have less than district average minimum
economic holding which i s likely to become unviable after their land is acquired, the impact is considered
severe. For this reason, the entitlement framework i s designedto provide replacement cost and additional
support for restoringthe livelihoodo f all affected people to at least restore their economic status to
pre-project level or improve their living standard. To mitigate these adverse impacts through the
implementation o f RAP, NHAIhas prepared a budget o f Rs.120 crores.
LandAcquisition: Itwas decided that the landacquisition would be done underNational Highway Act
1956 which is relatively less rigidand would help expedite the process. NHAIhas initiated the land
acquisition process. Notifications for the appointment o f competent authority for all districts have been
issued (November 24,2001 at Allahabad, March 5,2002 at Kaushambi, and January 29,2002 at
Pratapgarh).

CulturalProperties: There are a small number of cultural and socialproperties (such as temples, schools
and public offices) inthe vicinity o f the bypass alignment. Over 60 percent o f these properties were
avoidedthrough adjustment o f the bypass alignment and design. Specifically, the following properties are
avoided from displacement: all mosques and grave yards identified, 3 o f the 7 identified temples, and 1 of
the 5 identifiedschools.
Tribal and Other Vulnerable GroupsDevelopmentPlan: Only 3 tribal families are identified as PAFs,
and they are already part o f the mainstream communities. No exclusive R&R measures are required.



                                                      - 53 -

SN                Item                            Financedby (in Rs.Million)
                                       World Bank          NHAI               Total
1  Compensation                                            780.04            780.04
2  R&R assistance                           697.11         13.68              710.79
3  Implementation support & training         32.85                             32.85
   and for highway related diseases,
               Total                       729.96             793.72        1523.68




                                        - 54 -

