                                 Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00001251



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-47190)



                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$240.0 Million


                                       TO

                                      INDIA

                                     FOR THE

                        ALLHABAD BYPASS PROJECT



                                January 28, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
India Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2009)

     Currency Unit = Indian Rupee (Rs)
          INR1.00 = US$0.022
          US$1.00 = INRs.46.54



             FISCAL YEAR
            April 1 ­ March 31


  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABP           Allahabad Bypass Project
CAG           Comptroller and Audit General
EA            Environmental Assessment
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
GoI           Government of India
GTRIP         Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project
ICR           Implementation Completion and Results Report
NHAI          National Highways Authority of India
NHDP          National Highway Development Program
O&M           Operation and Maintenance
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
RAP           Resettlement Action Plan
R&R           Resettlement and Rehabilitation
TNHP          Third National Highway Project




      Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero
    Country Director: N. Roberto Zagha
     Sector Manager: Michel Audigé
 Project Team Leader: Arnab Bandyopadhyay
   ICR Team Leader: Simon Ellis
                                                           INDIA
                                                   Allahabad Bypass Project


                                                             CONTENTS


Data Sheet
  A. Basic Information........................................................................................................i
  B. Key Dates ....................................................................................................................i
  C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................i
  D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................ii
  E. Bank Staff ...................................................................................................................ii
  F. Results Framework Analysis ......................................................................................ii
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs....................................................................iv
  H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................. v
  I. Disbursement Profile .................................................................................................. v

   1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
   2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes............................................... 4
   3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 15
   5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................... 15
   6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 18
   7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 19
   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 20
   Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 21
   Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 22
   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 26
   Annex 5. Social Safeguards .......................................................................................... 28
   Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 32
   Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 33
   Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 39
   Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents....................................................................... 40

   MAP ­ IBRD 32658
A. Basic Information
                                                                             Allahabad Bypass
Country:                India                      Project Name:
                                                                             Project
Project ID:             P073776                    L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-47190
ICR Date:               04/05/2010                 ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                             GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                        Borrower:
                                                                             INDIA
Original Total
                        USD 240.0M                 Disbursed Amount:         USD 229.9M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 229.9M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 National Highways Authority of India
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
     Process              Date               Process           Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/29/2002        Effectiveness:          03/15/2004          03/15/2004
Appraisal:            04/21/2003        Restructuring(s):                           06/10/2009
Approval:             10/14/2003        Mid-term Review:        12/31/2006          02/19/2007
                                        Closing:                06/30/2009          06/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                          Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                       Moderate
Bank Performance:                                  Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                   i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              Moderately Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social services                                                  7                     3
Roads and highways                                                    93                  97


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                40                  40
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                                20                  20
Other financial and private sector development                        20                  20
Other social development                                              20                  20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                   Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          N. Roberto Zagha                     Michael F. Carter
Sector Manager:            Michel Audige                        Guang Zhe Chen
Project Team Leader:       Simon David Ellis                    Zhi Liu
ICR Team Leader:           Simon David Ellis
ICR Primary Author:        Kek Choo Chung


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objectives of the project are: (1) reduce transport constraints on
national economic activity; and (2) improve institutional capabilities to manage road
programs, assets, and services on a more commercial basis.




                                                 ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The development objectives of the project are: (1) reduce transport constraints on
national economic activity; and (2) improve institutional capabilities to manage road
programs, assets, and services on a more commercial basis.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target         Completion or
                                                documents)         Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 : Travel time along project corridor
Value           4-5 days for trucks for
quantitative or one way travel between Reduced by 30%                          2 - 3 days
Qualitative)    Delhi and Kolkata
Date achieved 09/05/2003                    12/31/2008                         06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %        The project contributed to meeting the specified target
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Truck operating cost along project corridor
Value
                Rs. 11 per truck km         Reduced by 10%
quantitative or                                                                Rs. 19
                                            in real terms
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/05/2003                    12/31/2008                         11/30/2009
Comments        Truck operating costs have increased but these figures are generated from HDM-
(incl. %        4 and affected by increases in the price of trucks and other inputs and differences
achievement) in the computation methodology.
Indicator 3 : Road user responsiveness mechanism
                                            Road User
                                            satisfaction
                                            surveys are
                                                                               Two road user
                                            conducted
Value           No road user                                                   surveys have been
                                            periodically (two-
quantitative or responsiveness                                                 undertaken with
                                            yearly) and survey
Qualitative)    mechanism in place                                             latest report in
                                            results used in the
                                                                               November 2009.
                                            planning and
                                            operation
                                            functions
Date achieved 09/05/2003                    12/31/2008                         11/15/2009
Comments        Two surveys have been undertaken which reflect positive reactions from road
(incl. %        users. The first survey did highlight road user recommendations that fed back
achievement) into design changes for the operation.




                                                iii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                              Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                 approval                        Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                               documents)                         Target Years
                Reduced travel time due to construction of 85 km long partially access controlled
Indicator 1 :
                4-lane National Highway bypassing the city of Allahabad
Value           Travel time through the
                                                                               One hour and five
(quantitative   city is about 2 hours 30 One hour
                                                                               minutes.
or Qualitative) minutes
Date achieved 09/05/2003                   12/31/2008                          11/30/2009
Comments
                This figure is an average of car, bus and truck travel speeds and nearly meets the
(incl. %
                target.
achievement)
                Operation and Maintenance (O&M) for national highways carried out under
Indicator 2 :
                performance-based contract to private operator
                                           O&M for selected
                                                                               4304 km on private
                                           national highways
Value                                                                          contracts under
                                           carried out under
(quantitative   NIL                                                            CMU and 808 km
                                           performance-based
or Qualitative)                                                                under BoT
                                           contract to private
                                                                               contracts.
                                           operator
Date achieved 09/05/2003                   12/31/2008                          11/30/2008
Comments
                Good progress has been made in contracting out maintenance by NHAI but this
(incl. %
                success cannot be attributed to this project.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Number of accidents and fatalities per 1000 km of national highway
                                           Reduced on
Value                                      project road to the
(quantitative   Not avilable               levels significantly                Not available
or Qualitative)                            below the state
                                           average
Date achieved 11/11/2005                   12/31/2008                          11/30/2009
Comments
                At the time of writing the project road has only been open to traffic for a few
(incl. %
                months and data is not yet available.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     11/14/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     05/13/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    12.40
  3     11/10/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    12.40
  4     05/05/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    34.60
  5     11/11/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    46.42


                                                iv
  6    05/30/2006         Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory    63.96
  7    12/04/2006         Satisfactory           Satisfactory          101.73
  8    04/02/2007         Satisfactory           Satisfactory          118.74
  9    09/26/2007         Satisfactory           Satisfactory          151.81
 10    04/17/2008         Satisfactory           Satisfactory          176.04
 11    10/14/2008         Satisfactory           Satisfactory          189.18
 12    05/04/2009         Satisfactory           Satisfactory          207.23
 13    06/25/2009         Satisfactory           Satisfactory          220.55


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 06/10/2009               S       S         214.84




I. Disbursement Profile




                                         v
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(This section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(Brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Country and Sector Background. The Allahabad Bypass Project (ABP) was one of three Bank
loans that supported the upgrading of National Highway 2 (NH2) between Delhi and Kolkata,
the other two being the Third National Highway Project (TNHP) approved in June 2000 and the
Grand Trunk Road Improvement Project (GTRIP) approved in the same month the following
year. At the time the program was launched, India's economy was growing at a rate of 8%.
Prospects for growth were strong. The country's transport system, however, was deficient, and
by international standards, highly inefficient. Over 90% of the national highways were two-lane
or narrower roads. Economic losses from congestion and poor roads were estimated at 120 to
300 billion rupees a year.

Recognizing that infrastructure bottlenecks constituted one of the major constraints to poverty
reduction and private sector-led growth, the Government of India (GoI) launched the National
Highway Development Program (NHDP), aiming to upgrade 13,000 km of core national
highways by 2007. The national highway network accounted for about 1.8% of the total road
network but carried more than 40% of the total traffic. Totaling some 51,000 km, the highway
network has been divided into two parts: NHDP (13,000 km) and non-NHDP (45,000 km). The
National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), established in 1998, was entrusted to manage the
NHDP. The non-NHDP part remained with the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways
which had been responsible for the national highways mainly through state public works
departments.

TNHP, which consisted of the upgrading of some 470 km of the NH2 from two to four lanes,
was the first project in the NDHP to be implemented with Bank financing; the GTRIP which
upgraded the remaining section of the NH2 (420 km) was the second. The construction of the
Allahabad Bypass which would pass through Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand which were
among the less developed states in India completed the Bank's support for the upgrading of the
NH2.

Upgrading of NH2 was a priority development in the NHDP and was mooted in the context of a
sector that was described in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) as facing:

(a)    Serious road capacity constraints on the core national highway network: Steady
       economic growth over the past decade had seen traffic on the highways increasing at an
       average rate of 7.5%.
(b)    Poor management of road infrastructure services: The level of service on national
       highways was being degraded by mixed traffic of fast and slow vehicles and
       encroachment activities on the right-of-way especially of traffic passing urban and semi-
       urban centers.




                                                1
(c)    Inadequate institutional capacity for the development, management and operation of
       national highways: While the need for an expressway system was recognized, previous
       studies and proposals did not go beyond the conception stage.
(d)    Limited private sector participation in road financing: Private sector financing in
       infrastructure development was evolving but was confined mainly to the Build, Operate
       and Transfer (BOT) model. Other modalities of public-private participation needed to be
       tested.

Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Bank with its knowledge of effective institutions, policies,
financing and implementation mechanisms in other parts of the world, and experience with
economic, social and environmental analyses of developmental works acquired through years of
assisting developing counties in infrastructure development, many of which were in India, was in
a position to add value to GoI's efforts in improving its national network of highways. Many of
the procedures practices that were adopted in the preparation and implementation of the TNHP
and the GTRIP in procurement, engineering, environment, land acquisition, resettlement,
construction supervision and dispute resolution could be refined and applied to the ABP. In
addition, the Bank could mobilize technical expertise in examining and testing new approaches
in highway management and operation. With the resources available, the Bank has been
supporting the NHAI's institutional development and facilitating the exchange of information
between central government, states and the private sector. The Bank's involvement in the ABP
was a logical extension of its support of the NHDP and was in line with its Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for India in which a key objective was the removal of highway infrastructure
bottlenecks that constrained poverty reduction and private-sector led growth.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The development objectives of the project were: (1) reduce transport constraints on national
economic activity; and (2) improve institutional capabilities to manage road programs, assets,
and services on a more commercial basis.

Key indicators for monitoring the achievement of objectives included:
(a)    Travel time along project corridor.
(b)    Truck operating cost along project corridor.
(c)    Private sector participation in the operations and maintenance of national highways.
(d)    Road user responsiveness.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

There were no revisions of the original project development objectives and key indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries of the project were users of the national highways, the city of Allahabad,
and rural areas directly served by the project highway. The benefits were mainly in the form of
reduced transport costs and travel time, increased accessibility to markets resources and social

                                               2
services, improved security against economic shocks through alternative jobs, and job
opportunities from the civil works during the implementation of the project and its maintenance
upon its completion.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The loan of US$240 million approved on October 14, 2003 was mainly to finance the
construction of a 4-lane accessed controlled highway from near the village of Kokhraj to the
town of Handia, a distance of about 84.7 km. The new highway which would be a section of the
NH2 would bypass the city of Allahabad. The original components of the project, stated in the
Loan Agreement, were:

Part A: Bypass Construction

1.     Implementation of civil works for the construction of a 4-lane divided carriageway,
       including service roads and a 4-lane bridge across the Ganga river.
2.     Provision of technical advisory services for the supervision of civil works.
3.     Implementation of a program of Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R) and
       environmental management activities as set forth in the Resettlement Action plan (RAP)
       and Environment Management Plans (EMPs), including:
       (a)    Provision of technical advisory services to support implementation of R&R
              activities, and training and monitoring activities;
       (b)    Procurement of R&R and EMP-related goods; and
       (c)    Implementation of R&R works, and environmental management and mitigation
              works ancillary to civil works.

Part B: Corridor Management

Implementation of a corridor management program, including:

(a)    Recruitment of a corridor management operator under a performance based contract for
       the operations and maintenance of a selected stretch of the national highway; and
(b)    Procurement and installation of toll collection and automatic traffic management systems
       along the selected stretch of the national highway.

Part C: Institutional Strengthening

To undertake independent and periodic surveys of road users and road sector stakeholders during
the project period, to determine the level of their awareness, involvement and satisfaction with
the delivery, management and operation of national highways by NHAI.

1.6 Revised Components

Part B: Corridor Management was dropped from the project in light that:




                                               3
(1)    O&M contracts were being implemented in other parts of the national highways system
       with the NHAI's own funds; and
(2)    the procurement of the Advanced Traffic Management System (ATMS), originally meant
       to be funded under this component, necessitated a deferment pending the extension of the
       project highway from four to six lanes.

The amount of US$16.07 million of the loan set aside for the Corridor Management component
was reallocated to the Bypass Construction component upon the request of the NHAI which had
been endorsed by the Government of India, raising the allocation for the Bypass Construction
component from US$191.45 million to US$207.52 million.

The changes were approved by the Regional Vice President on June 10, 2009.

1.7 Other significant changes
(In design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

There were other changes in the design, construction schedule and funding which may be
considered significant. These included:
·      About 10% of the alignment of the bypass was modified due to difficulties in land
       acquisition.
·      Land acquisition was more extensive than originally estimated. The acreage of land that
       had to be acquired exceeded the original estimate by some 17%.
·      More crossings and underpasses than provided for in the Detailed Project Report had to
       be constructed to accommodate demands from local villagers seeking improved
       connectivity to their communities.
·      Two truck lay-bys were not constructed due to difficulty in acquiring land.
·      Civil works had to have their contracts extended by one and a half to three and a half
       years.
·      Some US$10.07 million of the loan was not disbursed and was cancelled at Loan closing.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

Soundness of Project Preparation and Design: Project preparation benefited from experiences
gained from previous highway projects. Lessons learned from the TNHP and the GTRIP which
were still on-going when the ABP was under preparation shaped the design of the ABP. In
particular, the preparation of ABP took into account:

(i)    Weaknesses in financial management, environment, and social safeguards identified
       during the preparation and implementation of past projects.
(ii)   The need for stronger processes to be adopted.


                                                4
(iii)   A disbursement schedule reflecting that work in the first stage of construction would be
        low in value with high-value work materializing towards the later stage.

The project also benefited from design improvements such as rigid pavements, limited access,
combining cross drainage and pedestrian crossings, the use of fly ash in embankment
construction, the integration of social and environmental safeguard features, and the carrying out
of alternative design analyses in which six alternatives were studied in detail for the bypass
alignment and three alternative bridge designs were developed.

The project was prepared as a component of the overall upgrading of the NH2 with the bypass at
Allahabad constructed for the purpose of relieving congestion at that city constituting the final
part in the program of increasing the capacity of the highway from Kolcatta to Delhi, the other
two parts being the TNHP and the GTRIP both of which were still under implementation.
Physical developments along the corridor were integrated as a continuous whole with
overlapping components in all three projects. The development objectives stated in both the Loan
Agreement and the PAD for the ABP were similar to those of the TNHP and the GTRIP. The
indicators selected for monitoring and evaluating the performance of the ABP were designed for
evaluating the performance of the whole of the NH2 from Kolkata to Delhi rather than for the
bypass that was to be constructed. Similarly, institutional capacity improvements funded by the
loan were designed to apply to the national highway network with elements that were similar to
those found in the TNHP and the GTRIP.

The design of the main component of the project was straightforward and procurement packages
and readiness for the first year of implementation were sound. Design for the corridor
management part of the project was less well developed as evidenced by a lack of consistency
between the Loan Agreement and PAD in the description of works. The development objectives
were probably over ambitious given the investments and program of institutional strengthening
envisaged.

Adequacy of Government Commitment: The NHAI had a strong team in the headquarters and on-
site for the preparation and implementation of the TNHP and the GTRIP. Five on-site Project
Management Units (PMUs) were functional along the entire stretch of NH2 between Agra and
Barwa Adda. The PMU in charge of the implementation of two construction contracts (totaling
115 km) under the TNHP was made responsible for the preparation of the ABP. To avoid
overloading this PMU, a separate PIU which included a manager for environment and relocation
and rehabilitation was later set up to undertake the preparation of the ABP.

Risk Assessment: Overall the risks identified and mitigation measures implemented were
sufficient and appropriate. However, while it was recognized that a key factor would be the
NHAI's capacity to maintain and efficiently operate the newly created road assets, no specific
measure to mitigate the risk was offered. Similarly the financial sustainability of the
development was not adequately assessed.

Quality of Entry: QAG rated the quality at entry as moderately satisfactory. This was mainly due
to the disconnect between the ambitious institutional objectives and the limited scope of
activities in the project to support them, the difficulty in mitigating risks of policy reversals on

                                                 5
the issues faced by the sector, and by the inadequate analysis of the financial risks associated
with the tolling arrangements.

2.2 Implementation
(Including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

The NHAI was the implementing entity for the bypass construction, corridor management
component and road user surveys. Its capability to implement the project, including
environmental and social safeguards policies, had been strengthened through the preparation and
implementation of the TNHP and the GTRIP. A strong team was mobilized including three
managers, a deputy general manager and a general manager. At the field an on-site project
implementation unit (PIU) supervised the implementation of the project. A high level State
Project Coordinating Committee in Uttar Pradesh which had been functional for the TNHP and
the GTRIP was retained to facilitate land acquisition, resettlement, utility shifting, tree cutting
and re-plantation. The execution of the tasks related thereto rested with the NHAI.

The project was implemented at a cost of US$340.55 million, about 6.8% more than the revised
estimate of US$299.01 after allowing for the dropping of the Corridor Management component
from the Project (US$21.19 million inclusive of contingencies) from the original estimate (PAD)
of US$320.20 million. Civil works pertaining to the construction of the bypass at US$301.36
million exceeded the original estimate (US$240.42 million) by about 25%. However, savings
were achieved in construction supervision (US$4.56 million), land acquisition and utility
reallocation (US$3.07 million) and resettlement and rehabilitation assistance (US$11.77 million)
resulting in a net cost variation of US$41.54 million. The component for institutional
strengthening was implemented without any cost difference.

Completion of the project (except for some remaining works on pavement repairs, service roads,
bund construction and tree planting) was within the initial time frame for implementation and the
project closed on time. Some of the features of implementation by component are as follows:

Bypass Construction

Project implementation started well. Prior to loan approval on October 14, 2003, the contract for
the construction of the Ganga Bridge (Contract ABP1), one of three major civil works contracts
in the Project, was awarded on August 21, 2003 and work started on September 24, 2003. This
was soon followed by the award of contracts of the two other major civil works for the
construction of the carriageway, ABP2 for 38.98 km and ABP3 for 44.7 km, on December 20,
2003. Despite the good start all three civil works contracts required extensions ranging from one
and half to three and a half years. Many of the delays were attributed to the types of issues
facing most civil works contracts in India most notably problems with land acquisition:

·      Contractors' start-up was slow due to delays and uncertainties in handing over sites that
       were free of encumbrances.




                                                6
·       The construction of the highway and service roads took place in a terrain with many
        complex obstacles. The alignment crossed three railway lines, three state highways and
        over three districts where agriculture was the mainstay of the local population. Irrigation
        facilities were extensive; relocation was significant, affecting 14,062 families, 12,198
        title holders and 110 villages.

·       Land acquisition was slow due to the mismatch between geographical surveys and
        cadastral surveys, inaccurate information and particulars on land ownership, lengthy
        negotiations over compensation and delays in payment of compensation.

·       The acreage of land required for the project was greater than estimated by some 17%.
        The transfer of some 117 hectares of government land took time. The end result was
        contractors were not able to have the land they needed for the construction of the bypass
        in a timely manner. The delay in making land available in particular resulted in the delay
        to the completion of service roads, the interchange, and the guide bund.

·       Delays and difficulties in land acquisition resulted in the need to make modifications in
        the alignment of the bypass leading to the loss of time and the increase in construction
        cost. There were numerous contract variations. On contract ABP3 alone, the number of
        underpasses increased from 17 to 24; pipe culverts went from 35 to 52. Overpasses were
        reduced from 5 to 2.

These delays happened despite the embedding in the Bypass Construction component a
comprehensively developed Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) based on an equitable and
transparent policy on resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R). Non-governmental organizations
(NGOs) were engaged and became an integral part of the institutional arrangement for
implementation of the RAP. NGOs played a critical role in creating awareness of health and
safety issues and helped to resolve grievances during regular community visits and meetings in
conjunction with the staff of the project implementation unit.

Summary of execution of major contracts
   Contract No: Scope of       Start date       Original           Revised         Status at loan closing
           works                             completion date   completion date              date
ABP1: Construct bridge over   Sep 24,       Mar 23, 2006       Nov 10, 2007       Handed over to client
Ganga River (1.1 km)          2003                                                on Oct 4, 2008
ABP2: Construct highway       Jun 9, 2004   May 30, 2006       Sep 30, 2009       Main carriageway
from 158 km to 163.27 km                                                          substantially
and from 164.28 km to                                                             completed; 610 m of
198.km (38.99 km)                                                                 service roads and
                                                                                  another 20% of guide to
                                                                                  be completed.
ABP3: Construct highway       Nov 4, 2004   May 30, 2006       Jul 31, 2009 for   Main carriageway
from 198 km to 242.71 km                                       main               substantially
(44.71 km)                                                     carriageway Sep    completed; service
                                                               15, 2009 for       roads 90% completed
                                                               other works




                                                   7
Corridor Management

The implementation of the Corridor Management component was to consist of (1) the
recruitment of a corridor management operator under a performance based contract for the
operation and maintenance of a section of the national highway; and (2) the procurement and
installation of the ATMS along the selected stretch of the national highway. A lack of clarity
over the future management arrangements for NH2 meant that this component was dropped from
the project. The difficulty arose because of the decision to upgrade the road from a four lane to
six lane highway and the discussion to offer the upgrade and subsequent operations to a public
private partnership. A final decision was made in June 2009 to drop the implementation of the
whole of the component and the amount allocated for it was re-allocated to the component for
the construction of the bypass with the agreement of the Bank.

Institutional Strengthening

This component consisted of the funding of independent and periodic surveys of road users and
road sector stakeholders during the construction period to determine the level of awareness,
involvement, and satisfaction with the delivery, management and operation of national highways
by the NHAI. Two surveys were planned and executed.

Early action was taken to finalize the preparation and implementation of the component. The
first Road Users Satisfaction Survey (RUSS) was conducted in 2006 and the second in
September 2009. The RUSS covered the whole of the Golden Quadrilateral and yielded findings
that helped to improve project implementation. These findings included the desire for more
bridges and crossings for improved connectivity, fencing in populated areas to prevent people
crossing the highway indiscriminately, the provision of emergency contact telephone numbers,
requests for information on the use of funds collected from tolling, and expressions of irritation
over pot-holes, poor driving, headlight beams, lack of roadside amenities, and leakage of revenue
in toll collection.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design: Indictors designed to monitor and evaluate the outcome/impact of the project applied to
the whole of NH2 from Delhi to Kolkata rather than to the Allahabad Bypass per se. Two other
major Bank initiatives in support of the development of NH2 (TNHP and GTRIP) were on-going
when the design of the ABP was finalized and indicators to monitor and evaluate the
performance of the ABP were more or less in common with the indicators designed for the two
on-going projects. While these outcome indicators may be appropriate in relation to the total
investments for upgrading the NH2 into a four-lane highway, the performance of the NH2 could
be affected by factors external to the performance of the Allahabad Bypass. It would have been
useful to have indicators to assess reductions in travel times as a result of through-traffic vehicles
using the newly constructed bypass.

Implementation: The implementation of the project was monitored through quarterly progress
reports and regular Bank review missions. A mid-term review of the implementation was
undertaken in February 2007. Output indicators were adopted to monitor the performance of

                                                  8
project implementation for each of the components. Spelt out clearly in the PAD, these output
indicators monitored contracts execution in terms of delivery times, costs and safety at work
sites; delivery of entitlements to project affected families and restoration of common property
resources as and when planned; the execution of EMPs in accordance with contract clauses; and
the carrying out of road user satisfaction surveys on a regular basis.

Certain actions required of the borrower and the executing entity regarding arrangements for
implementation and the submission of reports were also covenanted in the loan and project
agreements. Measures to monitor and evaluate the performance of project implementation were
comprehensive and adequate.

Utilization: Indicators that monitor the achievement of PDOs also serve the function of
evaluating the utilization of the highway at the end of the project. No specific arrangement for
monitoring was outlined beyond the end of the project.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(Focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Environment: The initial screening and preparation of an environmental assessment (EA) for the
project was undertaken as part of the THNP preparation but following the decision in 2001 to
construct the bypass through another loan, a separate EA was carried out and a stand-alone
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was prepared for each of the three contract packages.
The main environmental issues were: (a) unavoidable conversion of fertile agricultural land for
the right of way; (b) potential impediments to local ground level and drainage; (c) removal and
re-location of community assets; (d) possible adverse impacts on aquatic flora and fauna in the
Ganga; and (e) dust noise and other nuisances associated with construction activities. Measures
to mitigate possible adverse impacts that were technical in nature were built into the various
contracts and monitored through progress reports and Bank review missions in the course of
project supervision. Induced development issues were addressed through regular collaboration
and dialogue with the local and state authorities. Environmental monitoring was adequate and
helped to prevent a degradation of the local environment and well-being of the community.

Social: Critical to the achievement of the social development outcomes was a comprehensively
developed RAP that was comprehensively executed. The RAP which addressed land acquisition
and other potential adverse social impacts for the project contained the institutional arrangements
and specified the roles and responsibilities for implementation, monitoring and evaluation as
well as an entitlement framework. R&R policy and plan were widely disseminated and
considerable efforts were expanded to ensure the participation of project affected persons (PAPs)
in all stages of R&R implementation. Comprehensive monitoring indicators and reporting
formats were developed and included in the RAP. Three district level committees were set up to
facilitate land acquisition and RAP implementation. The Environment and Social Unit at the
NHAI head office coordinated the resettlement activities. External evaluators were appointed to
provide an independent annual assessment of progress made to meet the objectives of the
resettlement and relocation plan and program.         R&R activities required considerable and
constant attention, often calling upon the ingenuity of staff responsible to overcome difficulties,
resolve grievances and lessen hardship. In all these, the PIU played a significant role in the

                                                9
successful implementation of the R&R plan. NGOs played a useful part in helping to implement
the RAP. It may be pointed out that the delays in land acquisition were caused by factors outside
the control of field staff implementing the RAP and the delays could have been worse if not for
their efforts. (See Annex 5 for a more detailed account of implementation of social safeguards.

One outstanding issue relates to the compensation of people who may lose land due to future
erosion associated with the guide bund at Ganga Bridge. Preliminary agreement has now been
reached that the NHAI, through their operation and maintenance contractor, would annually
(post monsoon) monitor the relative position of the right bank in the influence area for 5 years.
This will be done with reference to permanent control points established on the edge of the
existing river bank and suitably geo referenced to the bridge abutment and the right guide bund.
The NHAI would also monitor the highest annual discharge passing through the bridge site to
assess the flow velocity and any impact a possible increase in flow velocity would have on the
erosion of the entrapped land. This assessment will be based on the expert opinion of an
experienced and mutually acceptable (NHAI and Bank) hydrologist. The monitoring report will
be shared with the Bank by end of each calendar year. The framework / methodology would be
widely disseminated to the potentially affected community. It has also been agreed that the
compensation paid to the farmers to mitigate any impact on land loss during the monitoring
period would strictly follow the entitlement framework agreed for the project. The Bank would
continue to undertake limited supervision during the monitoring period. The Bank would also
reserve the right to invoke the suitable legal remedy in case any loss of land in the influence area
identified during the monitoring period is not adequately compensated. It is currently anticipated
that a final agreement on the monitoring framework, as explained above, will be reached by end
March 2010.

Financial Management: The timeliness of audit reports was found to be an issue despite NHAI
having been involved in the implementation of the TNHP and the GTRIP since 2000; otherwise
NHAI's financial management systems were found to meet the Bank's financial management
requirements. To strengthen audit reporting, provisions were made for a separate audit of the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) at Allahabad and for a firm of chartered accountants to
undertake an internal audit in accordance with International Standards of Accounting. The
statutory external audit would be done by Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG).

Procurement: Procurement arrangements were well defined. Contract packaging was
straightforward and no significant problem was encountered during implementation.

Compliance with Covenants: Compliance with covenants was monitored through project review
missions and quarterly progress reports. The degree of compliance was moderately satisfactory.
While most covenants had been complied with, the NHAI was found to be lacking in its
commitment to comply with the requirement of the Project Agreement to furnish each year a
report on condition of the NHAI road network and projected future user costs, including the
projected condition of its assets and forecast levels of maintenance. Annual accounts were often
furnished late and auditors' qualifications were not responded to in a timely manner. In addition,
indicators for monitoring the outcome of the project were only partially furnished.




                                                10
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(Including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Post-completion Operation: At the time of the Bank's ICR mission in September 2009, the main
highway was substantially complete and two lanes had been opened to traffic while some
finishing works were still on-going on the other carriageway. Overall road safety and corridor
management warranted further improvement to cope with the high speed access controlled nature
of the facility. Trucks were observed to be parked on the shoulder of the carriageway posing a
safety hazard, converting some of the verges between the service road and main carriageway into
formal truck stops should be seriously explored to mitigate this hazard. The Right-of-Way
fencing was also breached at few locations and squatters were sighted.

Post completion maintenance of the bypass during the Defect Liability Period (up to one year of
the handing over of site) would be the responsibility of the civil works contractors. The NHAI
planned to widen the bypass from four lanes to six lanes under the BOT model. The
concessionaire for the bypass section of the highway would take care of the maintenance during
the concession period. The timing for further upgrading has not been determined and may be a
few years away. However, a feasibility study for the development is now underway.

With regard to the long term operations of the highway the modalities are still to be finalized. At
the time of writing, the NHAI is yet to make a decision on the toll charges and when the tolling
would start. There is also the question of the eventual six laning of this highway and the
mechanisms for financing and operating this expansion. NHAI are planning to invite the private
sector to invest and there is an on-going feasibility study to look at the viability of this approach.
Given that it has been decided to six lane this section before the current highway has fully
opened there should have been better planning in terms of staged construction. The main
highway sections were designed to accommodate additional lanes but many of the structures
including the Ganga bridge were not designed to do so.

Next Phase: The next phase of development involving the NH2 would be the upgrading of the
highway from four to six lanes. Given that the financial sustainability is affected by revenue
from toll charges, and toll collection is apparently being deferred until the next phase of
upgrading of the highway, financing of the operating and maintenance costs of the bypass would
require further examination.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(To current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The development objectives of the project were: (1) reduce transport constraints on national
economic activity; and (2) improve institutional capabilities to manage road programs, assets,
and services on a more commercial basis. These objectives are considered to be highly relevant
to the current national priorities and Bank assistance strategy.

                                                 11
The objectives of the project are fully consistent with Bank's CAS for India in which priority is
given to the removal of infrastructure bottlenecks to help sustain rapid and inclusive growth,
improve service delivery and focus on innovative public-private sector participation in
infrastructure development.

The stated development objectives for the ABP were probably over ambitious given that the
project consisted essentially of the construction of a 84.7 km highway for the purpose of
bypassing the city of Allahabad. However, the construction of the Allahabad Bypass, was a part
of the program to support the upgrading of NH2 into a four-lane high quality highway of
international standard. Taken in this light, the development objectives were relevant. Upgrading
NH2 would reduce the time and cost of travel between Delhi and Kolkata.

The Allahabad Bypass does not have any truck lay-bys although two large ones were included in
the design. These were not constructed due to difficulties in acquiring the land. Conceivably, if
one or two are located at appropriate places along the bypass, or margin lands between the main
carriageway and service road at certain locations are used effectively as truck parking areas,
truckers may not want to stop and wait on the shoulder and therefore increase the operational
safety of the highway.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(Including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

Objective 1: Reduce transport constraints on national economic activity.

The improvement of the Allahabad Bypass section has reduced journey times in the project
corridor from two and half hours to just over one hour. When considered that this link forms part
of the overall NH2 corridor journey times have reduced from 4-5 days before improvements
started to 2-3 days now. In addition, the design of this project providing a bypass to a major
urban area will have the joint impact of reducing urban congestion and reducing travel times on
the main NH2 corridor. Modeling of truck operating costs shows that cost per kilometer have
gone down by 30% compared to the without project scenario. The project has therefore met its
development objectives of reducing transport constraints on national economic activity.

The lack of proper corridor management may erode these benefits over time if operations and
maintenance are not attended to, a sustainable tolling regime is not introduced or if traffic safety
issues are not addressed. However, the road user surveys under the project show that road users
generally have a favorable perception of the benefits that would accrue from their use based of
the findings of the first RUSS.

Objective 2: Improve institutional capacities to manage road programs, assets and services
at a more commercial basis.

The project was designed with a Corridor Management component that contained two measures
to contribute towards this objective: (a) the procurement of performance-based contracts from

                                                12
the private sector to operate and maintain selected sections of the national highway network; and
(b) the procurement and installation of toll collection systems and automatic traffic management
systems. With the deletion of this component from the project, the contribution that the project
per se contributed towards the achievement of this objective would at best be negligible.
However, from an institutional point of view, the NHAI had entered into numerous transactions
with the private sector to manage and operate sections of the national highways and these would
help to improve the NHAI's capacity to manage road assets and services at a more commercial
basis. In any event, the activities prescribed for the component were modest and the impact of
the component is debatable even if all the activities in the component were completed as
designed.

It is evident, from the results of the first RUSS that the NHAI has been successful in providing
highway infrastructure and that it had implemented projects with the speed and the effectiveness
generally appreciated by the users. About 96% of the respondents felt that the condition of
highways has improved and the highways were perceived to have delivered benefits like
reduction in travel time, fuel consumption and maintenance cost.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

Calculating the economic rate of return on the project has been complicated because the road has
only just opened allowing very little time for traffic to build up. In addition, the tolling regime
for the road has not been agreed making it difficult to calculate likely diversion rates. However,
given these limitations the economic rate of return (ERR) at ICR for the project has been
estimated at 15.7 percent given actual traffic levels of 11,000 PCU. This compares with figures
at appraisal estimated at 31.83 percent for the ERR given a traffic level of 23,000 PCU. The
reasons for the lower ERR at ICR are both lower than estimated traffic levels and higher than
estimated construction costs.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(Combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

The rating of the overall outcome of the project takes into account the relevance of the
investments, the quality of the design, the performance of project implementation, and the
achievement of the development objectives. Based on these factors, the overall outcome is rated
moderately satisfactory.

On the positive side, the project has provided the NHAI a new high quality four-lane highway
with driving and safety features that far exceed those of the existing road. To the extent that the
bypass relieves congestion at Allahabad and enables a faster speed of uninterrupted travel, the
project contributes towards the reduction of transport constraints on economic activity on the
Delhi-Kolkata corridor.



                                                13
However, the project itself has had little contribution towards achieving the objective of
improving institutional capabilities to manage programs, assets and services on a more
commercial basis as the project, designed specifically to contribute towards this objective, was
subsequently dropped.

The indicator for monitoring the achievement of this objective is increased private sector
participation in the operations and maintenance of national highways. During the course of
implementation of the project, the NHAI entered into a number of road concessions for the
development, operation and maintenance of the network but it cannot be claimed that the project
has made any contribution towards this achievement. At the time of writing of the ICR, the
NHAI has not taken any action to procure a private sector participant to manage operate and
maintain the bypass.

The design of the means and measures by which the project would contribute towards
institutional strengthening was modest consisting only of road users' surveys to determine the
level of satisfaction with the delivery, management and operation of national highways by the
NHAI. Measures for implementation under the Corridor Management component were also
being implemented in other highway projects funded by the Bank and this might have led to the
perception that implementing them in the project had lesser priority as they were being addressed
in other projects. In addressing issues related to corridor management on a project specific basis,
the management of and operation of the bypass upon its completion was given insufficient
attention.

There was no credible evaluation of the financial justification of the bypass as a vehicle for
investment. By failing to establish the extent of the commercial viability of the project, the
opportunity to demonstrate the potential reward of financing and participating in such highway
development in India by the private sector was not captured.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(If any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The justification for the project was the economic and social benefits that the four-lane NH2
would provide in the form of improved transport efficiency, better road safety, better access to
markets and resources, and improved social interaction of the areas served by the highway with
other parts of the country. The benefits would extend beyond the areas directly affected by the
project. For the project areas, the bypass would facilitate movement of goods and enhance
people's access to jobs services and markets. Better markets and more jobs would increase rural
income and contribute to poverty reduction. The design and implementation of the project took
cognizance of the need to avoid, mitigate and minimize social impacts. The key to ensure the
achievement of the desired social development outcomes was the well designed and well
implemented RAP.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(Particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

                                                14
GoI commitment to improving institutional capabilities to manage road program, assets and
services was never in doubt. The Inter Ministerial Committee Report on the restructuring of the
National Highways Authority of India (March 2008) was a demonstration of the concrete action
that had been taken to strengthen the NHAI. Numerous contracts involving the private sector
became involved in the operation and maintenance of the national highway network were
concluded. Because of GoI's strong commitment and the various measures taken by the NHAI,
the objective of improving institutional capacities to manage road program, assets and services
will likely be achieved. Such measures, however, were executed outside the domain of the
project.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

There was no unintended outcome or impact.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(Optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

The risk to development outcome is moderate. The bypass is basically a section of the NH2.
With the completion of the improvements to the whole of the highway, the time and cost of
travel on the highway will be reduced. However, given the uncertainty of the impact of a tolling
regime and the lack of a credible arrangement for corridor management, there are some longer
term sustainability risks for this bypass section. To a large extent, the toll rate will influence the
extent in which through-Allahabad traffic would be diverted to the bypass but there may be other
factors why traffic would enter and pass through Allahabad by choice.

On the longer term, given the measures taken by GoI and the NHAI at institutional capacity
building on a sector-wide basis, the risk to development is reduced.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(Relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Moderately satisfactory




                                                 15
Overall, the performance of the Bank in ensuring quality at entry is rated moderately satisfactory.
Although, the loan funded essentially the construction of the bypass, the purpose and
justification of the bypass were not sufficiently articulated. Indictors were designed to monitor
the performance of the whole of the NH2 from Kolkata to Delhi rather than of the bypass and
these indicators while appropriate in the context of the whole highway are affected by
externalities that are beyond the scope of influence of the bypass.

The project design benefited from the introduction of lessons from previous projects and this
streamlined implementation and allowed the project to finish on time. The design of the Corridor
Management component could have been better designed perhaps with the performance-based
contracts for operations and maintenance targeted at the project road. Arrangements for post
completion operation and maintenance of the bypass seemed not to merit adequate attention.

Quality at entry was also rated moderately satisfactory by QAG.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(Including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Satisfactory

The quality of Bank supervision was satisfactory. Field supervision missions were regular and
focused on the timely completion of work. Issues that emerged during implementation were
attended to efficiently and promptly. Compliance with safeguard and fiduciary policies was
monitored closely.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

Overall, despite the satisfactory rating for quality of supervision, Bank performance is rated
moderately satisfactory due to the quality of the project at entry.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Sector-wise, GoI's performance in improving institutional capabilities to manage road programs,
assets, and services on a more commercial basis has been strong. Measures taken in pursuit of
this objective included the setting up of an Inter Ministerial Committee for the restructuring of
NHAI on June 24, 2005, to formalize the proposal of the Committee on Infrastructure for
restructuring the NHAI. In the process, feedback and comments from various government
departments, academic, financial institutions, etc. were taken into consideration. GoI has also
expressed its support for the NHAI's business model of outsourcing to the private sector the bulk
of its development, management, operation and maintenance of its assets. On the negative side

                                                16
the government, at the state and national level, could have done more to support a more
organized handover of the project highway to the operational phase including the confirmation of
the tolling arrangements.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

Overall the implementation of the civil works component of the project was satisfactory. Using
the experience and expertise developed for the TNHP and GTRIP projects, NHAI mobilized a
strong team including three managers. At the field an on-site project implementation unit (PIU)
supervised the implementation of the project. A high level State Project Coordinating
Committee in Uttar Pradesh which had been functional for the TNHP and the GTRIP was
retained to facilitate land acquisition, resettlement, utility shifting, tree cutting and re-plantation.
Although there were delays with the execution of individual contracts many of causes were
outside the influence of the PIU. Ultimately the project completed within the original loan period
with the contracts substantially complete.

However, the dropping of the corridor management component substantially diminished the
institutional impact of the project. The lack of a planned transition from the implementation to
operations phase will have a detrimental impact on the utility of the highway. NHAI also failed
to comply with the covenant in the Project Agreement to furnish each year a report on the
condition of the NHAI road network. The availability of other data required to monitor the
achievement of the project's development objectives was also sub-optimal.

Overall it can be concluded that the implementation of the civil works component was well
managed but the corridor management aspects of the project could have been managed better.
That justifies an overall moderately satisfactory rating.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

Overall, the borrower's performance is rated moderately satisfactory. While at the sector level,
GoI has taken concrete measures to improve the institutional capacity of the NHAI, at the project
level, it appeared not to have exercised sufficient oversight on the implementation of the project.
On the positive side, the outcome of the project was a high grade four-lane highway completed
substantially without any extension of the loan closing date. The highway contained a number of
innovative features both in terms of its design features and how the project was implemented.
However, implementation of the Corridor Management component was given insufficient
attention leading to a decision to delete the component when the loan was about to close. The
NHAI did not respond in a timely way to the Bank task team's repeated requests to take early
action to implement the component. The NHAI has also failed to make credible and timely
arrangement for the operation of the bypass upon its completion.




                                                  17
6. Lessons Learned
(Both project-specific and of wide general application)

The preparation and implementation of the project provided lessons that may help to improve the
execution of future projects.

·       Non-completion of land acquisition and resettlement operations before the start of civil
        works was a major issue in the implementation of the ABP. Land required for the
        project should have been substantially acquired before the commencement of civil works
        to ensure that contractors are not impeded by insufficient land to progress the work. A
        well prepared Detailed Project Report (DPR) is essential for proper implementation of a
        project. In the ABP, shortcomings in the DPR led to changes in the alignment of the
        carriageway and consequent revisions to the resettlement and rehabilitation plan. A well
        prepared DPR with more accurate information on the amount and ownership of the land
        required would have reduced the delays in land acquisition and resettlement.
·       However, innovative approaches to resettlement under the project did limit some of the
        delays. NGOs played a useful role in facilitating resettlement and rehabilitation if they
        were correctly selected and carefully monitored. The implementation of the R&R
        program in the project could conceivably have ended earlier if the services of the NGOs
        had not been prematurely terminated. The project benefited from active participation of
        project affected persons in all stages of R&R implementation including consultation at
        the initial stages of project preparation. Many measures to alleviate hardship emerged
        from regular contacts with the local communities. It was also found that informal
        discussions between community and PIU project staff were more effective than formal
        discussions in resolving grievances.
·      Indicators designed to monitor the outcome of a project should reflect the performance of
       the specific investment rather than the outcome of a larger program for which the project
       contributes to only a part. The purpose of the Allahabad Bypass was to provide an
       alternative for through-traffic to bypass and relieve congestion at the city of Allahabad.
       The indicators selected to monitor the achievement of the investment evaluated the
       performance of the whole highway (980 km) from Kolkatta to Delhi for which the bypass
       was only a section (84.7 km).
·      Measures that are to be implemented in a project should be clearly defined and be ready
       for execution upon the launching of the project. The Corridor Management component of
       the ABP suffered from a lack of clarity of the locations where the actions were supposed
       to be taken and also lack of specificity of the actions to be taken.
·      More attention should be given to post-completion arrangements for the management and
       operation of an asset once the construction phase has finished. A clear plan should be in
       place for the handover of newly developed assets to the client. Use of the assets while
       some work is still in progress exposes the contractor and the client to litigation should
       accidents and damages occur.
·      The use of fly ash in embankment construction has been proven to be technically viable
       and cost effective.




                                               18
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

There were no cofinaciers in the project.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

No comments were received from partners and stakeholders.




                                            19
                           Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                    Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                              Appraisal
                                                       millions)
 BYPASS CONSTRUCTION                 296.30             337.85                  114.02
 CORRIDOR MANAGEMENT                   21.20               0.00
 INSTITUTIONAL
                                        0.30               0.30                 100.00
STRENGTHENING
            Total Baseline Cost       317.80             338.15                 106.43
Physical Contingencies                  0.00               0.00                  0.00
Price Contingencies                      0.00                0.00
                                                                                 0.00
             Total Project Costs       317.80            338.15                 106.43
Front-end fee PPF                        0.00                                     .00
Front-end fee IBRD                       2.40              2.40                 100.00
     Total Financing Required          320.20            340.55                 106.35


(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                      Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
         Source of Funds
                                    Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                          80.20       100.55      125.37
 International Bank for
                                                    240.00          240.00         100.00
 Reconstruction and Development




                                           20
                               Annex 2. Outputs by Component


    Component           Planned Output (PAD, Sept.          Actual Output on Completion
                                    2003)
By-pass                A four-lane 84.7 km highway       A four-lane highway made up of the
construction at the    from Km158 of NH2 (near           widening to four lanes of the existing
northern outskirt of   Kokhraj) to Km242.7.              two lane NH2 highway of 2.6 km and
Allahabad city                                           the construction of a new four-lane
                                                         highway of 82.1 km.

Corridor               (a) Procurement of private        None under the Project. The
management             operators under performance       component was formally cancelled in
                       based contracts for the           June 2009 in light that O&M contracts
                       operation and maintenance of      were being financed by NHAI with its
                       the Ahmedabad-Vadora              own funds.
                       expressway or selected national
                       highway stretches.
                       (b) Procurement and               None under the Project. The NHAI
                       installation of toll collection   deferred the implementation of the toll
                       systems and automatic traffic     collecting systems and the ATMS in
                       management system (ATMS)          light of GoI's decision to expand the
                                                         four-lane highway to six lanes.

Institutional          Periodic surveys of road users    The first road users' survey was
strengthening          and road sector stakeholders      conducted in 2006, providing findings
                                                         that helped to improve project
                                                         implementation. The second survey
                                                         was completed in September 2009 and
                                                         the results were made available in
                                                         November 2009.




                                               21
                             Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
                               (Including assumptions in the analysis)


                  Category                              Appraisal                    ICR
                                                        Economic                   Economic
Benefits (Rs. Million)                                   37,443                     17,380
Reduced road users and maintenance cost
Costs (Rs.million)                                       10,871                     13,648
Road construction, R&R, utility shifting and
maintenance
Net Benefits (Rs. Million)                               26,572                      3,732
ERR (percent)                                             31.83                       15.7

A.      Assumptions

                                          Appraisal                                 ICR
Highway Lifespan                            30yrs                                   30yrs
Scrap value at the end                      25%                                     25%
Discount Rate                               12%                                     12%
Conversion factor for                        0.9                                     0.9
financial to economic
costs
Road Condition               Without project case ­ maintained      Without project case - maintained
                             every five years but not improved      every five years.
Impact of Congestion         As per HDM III                         As per HDM4.
Base Year Traffic            Most recent traffic count at           From 2004 based on DPR and the
                             appraisal.                             current Survey for 2009 onward.
Traffic growth rates         Estimated based on elasticity To       Same as used in ICR of TNHP and
                             population and per capita Income of    GTRIP since it is the same corridor.
                             the area.
Cost of construction         Rs.10871million at 2003 prices         Actual cost Rs.13648 Million at
                             based on BOQ and rate analysis.        2009 prices.
Construction period                         3 years                                5 years
Maintenance cost             Based on HDM III                       Based on HDM4.
Savings in road user costs   Reduced VOC, VOT for passenger         Same as at appraisal
                             and cargo time based on per capita
                             income.
Savings in maintenance                                              Based on NHAI
cost

The economic analysis has been carried out for construction of road and bridges for the stretch of
NH2 between Km. 158 and 245 bypassing Allahabad City. The bypass has been recently
completed and opened to traffic. A number of surveys were carried out to collect data on vehicle-
wise traffic on the bypass and the existing NH2, average speed on the two alternatives and the
road condition of the NH2. Road condition data for the bypass was not collected since it is just
completed.


                                                   22
Methodology

The approach used for estimating the economic benefit of constructing the bypass to the NH2 at
Allahabad is similar to used earlier at the time of preparing the project. In the `without' scenario
no upgrading of the existing NH2 has been considered and only its maintenance with periodic
overlays have been considered. In the `with' case construction of a new 4-lane bypass has been
assumed with maintenance as required and the existing NH2 is subjected to regular and periodic
maintenance. The by-passable traffic is diverted to the bypass and the traffic
originating/terminating from/at Allahabad and along the NH2 has been assumed to ply on the
NH2 only. HDM 4 was used to calculate the year-wise vehicle operating costs (VOC) at current
prices, 2009 for both the bypass and NH2, whereas the initial feasibility study had used HDM
III.
A second case where the by-passable freight traffic moving in the night, from 9 PM to 6AM has
been allowed to move on the NH2 since the NHAI is planning to toll the new facility and the toll
rates are quite high compared to what the users are willing to pay as determined earlier
(Economic Feasibility Report of the Consultant). This would result in the trucks using the
existing NH2 since there is no restriction on their movement through the city during the night.

Traffic. Classified vehicle count (CVC) was carried out at three locations on NH2, km185,
km192 (city portion) and km217 for 3 consecutive days. CVC was also carried out before the
start and after the end points of the bypass along with O-D to assess the by-passable traffic and
the percent of such traffic using the bypass. The traffic at the three locations on NH2 is
summarized below in the Table 1. The traffic at the end points of the bye-pass has been
summarized in Table 2.

Traffic estimates on the bypass and NH2 in the feasibility report for the year 2009 were 23182
and 20321 PCU respectively. The NH2 traffic was the average of the three locations. The present
traffic on the by-pass and the average of three locations on the NH2 is 11581 and 23821 PCU for
similar fast moving vehicles respectively. This clearly indicates that the traffic has not grown as
estimated in the feasibility report. Traffic at the two ends of the bypass was also collected in
2008 for ICR of TNHP and GTRIP. The number of trucks, specially 2-axle and LCV were about
70 percent higher than the current traffic. However, there was not much difference in the traffic
volume of 3-axle trucks and MAVs. Since there was a downturn in the economy in 2008-09, the
freight vehicles have declined in the last one year. The economy has started picking up again and
therefore, the traffic growth rates adopted are the higher growth rates used for TNHP and GTRIP
for this section is a part of the same corridor. The growth rates adopted for the bypass are as
given below:

Vehicle type         Year              Car              Bus             Truck         2/3-wheeler
Kanpur-          2009-2013             8.0              7.0              7.5              7.0
Varanasi         Beyond 2013           7.0              6.0              7.0              6.5




                                                23
The growth rates considered are lower than used in the feasibility study based on the past growth
of traffic on the section. For the first 4 years traffic is assumed to grow at a higher rate since the
traffic has declined during the last 2 years due to economic downturn. The traffic grew at a
medium rate since the parallel NH is toll free and freight traffic has diverted to the alternate NH
between Delhi and Varanasi.

Table: Classified Vehicle Count ­ Average vehicles on NH2, November, 2009
         Vehicle type          Km 185          Km192          Km 217                     Bypass
Car/Jeep/Van Private             1289            4180           5103                      673
Three wheeler                    3877            2814           3967                      NA
Two wheeler                      5381            8453           7721                      NA
Mini bus                          214             142            559
Bus (Pvt/Pub)                     398             247            821                        36
School Bus                         72              13            103                       NA
LCV                               254            483            517                        324
2-axle truck                      624            847            1292                      1022
3-axle truck                      242            236            1057                      1927
MAV                                58             28             149                       362
Tractor                           174             88             73                        NA
Tractor trolley                    42             70             110                       NA
Cycle                            2979            5860           4375                       NA
Cycle rickshaw                     70              63             61                       NA
Animal/Hand cart                   50              38              1                       NA
Total ADT                       18309           23571          25933                      4344
Total PCU                       21927           23785          34647                      11743

Value of Time. At the feasibility the value of time was considered as Rs.57 per passenger-hr for
car and Rs.45 per passenger-hr for bus. The value considered used 1.25 times the average
earning of the passenger. These values are higher since the value of time for general travel is 25
to 35 percent of the average earning of passenger and only in case of business/work trip a factor
of 1.25 is considered. On an average the value of time is considered at about 50 percent of the
average earning of the passenger. In view of this, the value of time was corrected to Rs.23 per
passenger-hr for car and Rs.18 per passenger-hr for bus. These values were increased by the
average increase in per capita income in India since 2002 equivalent to 1.5 times for the year
2009.

Benefits due to reduction in Accidents. In the feasibility study it was assumed that the number
of fatal and other accidents would reduce after the construction of bypass. However, data on fatal
accidents on the four-laned highways do not support this assumption. Therefore, no benefit from
reduced accidents has been considered.

Vehicle Operating Costs. VOC for each vehicle type has been estimated using HDM 4 for the
level of traffic projected on each alternate road. For the bypass rigid pavement was considered
while for NH2, flexible pavement was considered.


                                                 24
Condition of NH2. Roughness data for the NH2 from km158 to km 244 was collected using the
ROMDAS vehicle. The roughness value ranged between 2500 mm/km to 3000 mm/km for 85
percent of the length and 3000 mm/km to 4000 mm/km for the rest. For the purpose of
estimating VOC an average value of 2800 mm/km was considered.

Costs. The cost of the project increased by about 15 percent, in USD and Rupees term. Year-
wise expenditure on the construction of bypass was converted into present prices, 2009, using the
whole sales price index for construction. A factor of 0.9 was used to convert the financial costs
to economic costs, same as in the feasibility report.

Result. The economic rate of return for the project was estimated at 15.7 percent as compared to
31.83 percent but only 21.6 percent if the cost went up by 15 percent. In case the traffic does not
divert to bypass in the night hours, the ERR reduced to 11.8 percent. The major reason for the
lower ERR is the actual traffic on the bypass of about only 11,000 PCU as compared to 23,000
PCU estimated in the feasibility report and the increase in cost.




                                                25
         Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                               Responsibility/
             Names                          Title                Unit
                                                                                 Specialty
Lending
 Zhi Liu                      Transport Economist                SASEI   Task Team Leader
 A.K. Swaminathan             Highway Engineer                   SASEI   Engineering
 Anil Bhandari                Transport Specialist              AFTTR    Institutional Strengthening
 Sujit Das                    Highway Engineer                   SASEI   Engineering
 Sonia Chand Sandhu           Environmental Specialist          SASDI    Environment
 Mridula Singh                Social Development Specialist     SASDI    Social Development
 Arnab Bandyopadhyay          Highway Engineer                   SASEI   Engineering
 Tapas Paul                   Environmental Specialist          SASDI    Environment
 N. Raman                     Procurement Specialist            SARPS    Procurement
 Priya Goel                   Financial Management Specialist   SARFM    Financial Management
 Venkat Rao Bayana            Social Development Consultant     SASDI    Social Development
 Piers Vickers                Transport Specialist               SASEI   Co-Task Team Leader
 Ernst Huning                 Short Term Consultant              SASEI   Institutional Development
 Manmohan Singh Bajaj         Procurement Specialist            SARFP    Procurement
 Isabel Chatterton            Financial Specialist               SASEI   Financial Management
 Raj Soopramanien             Counsel                           LEGES    Lawyer
 Vikram Raghavan              Counsel                           LEGES    Lawyer
 Hyacinth Brown               Finance Officer                   LOAAS    Finance Officer
 Irene Christy                Program Assistant                  SASEI   Task Team Member
 Sangeeta Anand               Program Assistant                  SASEI   Task Team Member
 Rajesh B. Dongol             Program Assistant                  SASEI   Task Team Member

Supervision/ICR
 Sangeeta Anand               Sr. Program Asst.                 SASDE    Project Assistant
 Harinath S. Appalarajugari   Environmental Spec.               SASDI    Environment
 Venkata Rao Bayana           E T Consultant                    SASDI
 Debabrata Chakraborti        Senior Procurement Specialist     SARPS    Procurement
 Sonia Chand Sandhu           Sr. Environmental Spec.           SASDI    Environment
 Sujit Das                    Sr. Transport Engr.               SASDT    Engineering
 Rajesh B.S. Dongol           Program Assistant                 SASDO    Project Assistant
 Parthapriya Ghosh            Social Development Spec.          SASDI    Social Development
 Priya Goel                   Sr. Financial Management Spec.    SARFM    Financial Management
 Nupur Gupta                  Transport Specialist              SASDT
 Gaurav D. Joshi              Environmental Spec.               SASDI    Environment
 Sangeeta Kumari              Social Development Spec.          SASDI    Social Development
 Tapas Paul                   Sr. Environmental Spec.           SASDI    Environment
 Rajesh Rohatgi               Sr. Transport. Spec.              SASDT    Engineering
 Ritu Sharma                  Program Assistant                 SASDO    Project Assistant
 Mridula Singh                Senior Social Development Spec    SASDI    Social Development
 G. George Tharakan           Lead Transport Specialist         SASDT    Highways
 Piers Antony Vickers         Sr. Transport. Spec.              SASDE    Team Leader




                                                    26
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
     Stage of Project Cycle                                 USD Thousands (including
                                    No. of Staff Weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
                                      Lending
              FY01                          3                          9.22
              FY02                         26                         66.89
              FY03                         27                         72.98
              FY04                         17                         52.73
                          Total:           73                        201.82
                                   Supervision/ICR
              FY04                          9                         18.11
              FY05                         25                         56.64
              FY06                         16                         63.65
              FY07                         26                         75.05
              FY08                         18                         56.22
              FY09                         19                          0.00

                          Total:          113                        269.67




                                          27
                                   Annex 5. Social Safeguards


                                    Plan and Implementation

The Allahabad Bypass (Bypass) starts at Km 158 of NH-2 near Kokhraj in Kaushambi District
and ends at Km 242.708 of NH-2 at Paharpur in Allahabad district, with an overall length of
about 84.708 km. The Bypass passes through three districts namely Allahabad, Kaushambi and
Pratapgarh on an entirely new alignment involving acquisition of 974 hectares of land in 110
villages affecting a total of 14062 families including 12198 titleholders. The bypass alignment
crosses Ganga River and thus involves the construction of a new bridge on it. The bypass
alignment also crosses three railway lines, three state highways, five ODRs and three minor
rivers. In the project influence area, agriculture is the mainstay of the people. The road alignment
passes through plain fertile agricultural land with alluvial soils belonging to the Ganga and
Yamuna river systems and has extensive irrigation facilities. Land holdings are generally small.
Cultivation and working as laborers in big cities are the primary sources of income. Illiteracy is
high and access to education, health and employment opportunities is limited.

The Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), despite delays in land acquisition and payment of
compensation, has been implemented satisfactorily. The project has a widely disseminated R&R
Policy and the process of compensation was well informed to the affected people. Project was
largely successful in compensating at market rate and had provision of legal alternative
procedures in calculating the same. This is reflected by the negligible number of disputes and
court appeals for enhancement of compensation under the project. Entitlements to project
affected families (PAFs) have been delivered and all community assets have been reconstructed
and are in use. Around 90 percent PAFs utilized their compensation and assistance for the
purpose of purchase of land and purchase of asset for income restoration. The construction of the
Bypass has mainly impacted upon the agricultural land losers; therefore they were imparted
orientation course on Agriculture Production Techniques and dairy farming through District
Horticulture officer (DHO) & PCDF. However, Bank has expressed concern over the likely loss
of private land belonging to 110 farmers entrapped between the guide bunds constructed on
either side of river for the bridge over river Ganga. The NHAI is in the process of framing a
suitable monitoring framework to assess the project impacts on the entrapped land between the
two guide bunds and compensate the land owners accordingly.

Some of the lessons learnt under the project along with recommendations for future projects
involving involuntary resettlement are listed below:

Public Consultations. Given the rural context, the project realized that extra efforts would be
needed to ensure the participation of projected affected persons (PAPs) in all stages of R&R
implementation. This would have to begin with consultations at the initial stage before the
identification process for PAPs begins. Several rounds of community meetings were conducted
by the NGO staff and the PIU staff. These meetings were directed at explaining the need for land
acquisition, need for a bypass and the overall process that would be followed. Three seminars
were conducted for key stakeholders of the project, civil society and representatives of PAPs and
the PRIs. Establishment of public contact during preparation stage through consultations helped

                                                28
the project in gaining acceptability of the project. In a rural context, women's participation in
large meetings remains a challenge. However, since there was emphasis on ensuring female staff
in NGOs, this problem was overcome. This also meant home visits to contact women and
encourage them to attend the meetings. Community level events were also organized under the
project in association with contractors, local health workers and NGOs to create awareness and
preparedness on personal health and safety issues to address the enhanced risk of exposure to
road accidents and HIV/AIDs. This practice should be replicated in other Bank funded projects
set in the similar context.

Land Acquisition and disbursement of entitlements. The land for this project largely acquired
through acquisition under the project has been carried out as per NH Act, 1956. However, in this
project the quantum of land requirement which has been acquired is nearly 14 percent more than
what was initially planned in the resettlement report resulting in increase in number of PAFs by
3.2 times against the estimates at the RAP preparation stage (Refer table 1). The variation in land
acquisition during implementation can be attributed to outdated land records and sub-optimal
quality of engineering designs. Necessary changes in designs during the project implementation
stage to provide for additional pedestrian and vehicular underpasses as demanded by the roadside
community and site specific adjustments to accommodate wider cross- drainage structures and
way side amenities also resulted in requirement of additional land acquisition. The additional
land identified during implementation was acquired through direct purchase at rates accepted
already under LA process through a policy circular issued by the NHAI. This process was
successful and effective in avoiding delays in handing over the sites to the contractor because the
process of acquiring land through the prevailing acts cause delay and thus often leads to huge
amount of contractual claim by the contractor. Updating of land acquisition plans based on
ground truthing of the designs before initiating land acquisition process can help in avoiding
delays in making the site available for construction. Having a dedicated PIU with land
acquisition officials during preparation stage to ensure realistic designs and verification of LA
Plans to this effect is recommended where the DPR preparation is outsourced.

The average time taken between declaration of award and payment of compensation has been 16-
28 months and for more than 27 percent villages it was 29 to 36 months. Further the
implementation of R&R activities is highly dependent on the pace of the competent authority's
pace to declare award of compensation. For all the contract packages, the required land could not
be acquired on time. Considering this, it can be said that land acquisition has been the critical
issue in delaying the disbursement of entitlements to PAFs. Moreover, although the civil works
have been substantially completed within the project period, the construction works could have
been completed 12-15 months earlier if land acquisition process was not delayed. Some incentive
base can also be explored for the Land acquisition department to expedite the process.




                                                29
                       Table 1: Impacts ­ Pre-project vis-à-vis Post-project

          Packages                        As per RAP*                   At Project Completion**
ABP I & II
Land Acquisition (Ha.)
Title Holders (PAFs)                           2019                                  8247
Non Title Holders (PAFs)                        86                                    304
Total (PAFs)                                   2105                                  8551
ABP III
Land Acquisition (Ha.)
Title Holders (PAFs)                           2218                                 5274
Non Title Holders (PAFs)                        117                                  237
Total (PAFs)                                   2335                                 5511
Total(ABP I, II and III)                       4440                                 14062
Source: *Consolidation of Resettlement Action Plan of Allahabad Bye-pass of NH 2, DHV in association with
MDP, March 2003.
** Compiled from Micro Plans data base, NHAI, September 2009

Involvement of Non Government Organisations. Involvement of Non Governmental
Organizations (NGOs) in RAP implementation as an extended arm of the project implementation
unit was highly appreciated by the community in the project influence area. Two NGOs hired for
the project were registered organizations with 7­8 professionals including land valuers,
sociologists and community consultation experts. The NHAI supports this system in
implementation of such R&R activities because of the soft skill sets such organizations bring in
reaching the highly sensitive and vulnerable community. NGOs also played a critical role in
creating awareness among the community on associated health and safety issues of the project
such as HIV/AIDs, and First Aid etc. However, NGOs performance varied based on the
experience of their deployment staff.

Doorstep disbursement campaign. A unique strategy evolved by the project has been the
doorstep disbursement campaign. Realizing the difficulties PAPs may face in traveling to the
Banks for receiving the R&R payments, it was decided to disburse the payments in the
communities itself. This was a challenging and time-consuming process as it was decided that a
team comprising revenue department staff, PIU staff, NGOs and the Banks staff would go from
site to site for disbursement. It was also ensured that the PRI representatives, preferably the
Sarpanch was available during these events. This strategy was widely appreciated by the PAPs
and merits replication in other bank funded projects set in the relatively remote rural areas.

Responsiveness to construction-induced problems. The project was cautious and responsive to
construction-induced concerns, especially the loss of access and enhanced risk to road side
dwellings - temporarily and long-term. Regular checks by PIU staff on the contractors to ensure
that temporary access paths were being created and embankment protection works were
introduced to help ensure enhanced responsiveness to the local issues. Overall, about 21
underpasses were constructed to mitigate community severance and loss of access. Some of these
were not envisaged during the design stage, but emerged from regular contact with the

                                                      30
communities. Considering that this practice achieved moderate success there is a need to rethink
on the current strategy and make it more community driven.

Accessibility of Project Implementation Unit staff led to resolution of grievances. While
there was a well-defined grievance mechanism in the RAP, this was not utilized in practice.
Nevertheless, the PIU staff evolved various mechanisms to ensure that there was prompt
response to the redress of grievances. Firstly, the contact numbers of the CROs and other PIU
staff and NGOs were displayed at field sites. More importantly, regular community visits and
meetings by the PIU staff, along with the NGO staff were very effective in resolving grievances
as and when those were raised. This also helped in coming up with resolutions in consultation
with the community. According to project staff, sometimes formal mechanisms become more
time-consuming. Moreover, different mechanisms need to be evolved for redressing grievances
in rural contexts. Thus, more community meetings and joint field visits with NGOs were found
to be more effective. This practice would be worth adopting in project settings where community
fears approaching government officials and have very little faith on the legal and judiciary
system.

Use of Family Tree Analysis for establishing ownership of land and early identification of
Entitled. Given the huge land acquisition requirements, displacement of people, complex and
old land records, an upfront ownership identification process through `Family Tree Analysis'
was initiated. The serious constraint in land acquisition process is establishment of land
ownership which gets complicated due to continuous fragmentation of land among growing and
dividing family members. These divisions are seldom legalized resulting in serious mismatches
between actual owners in possession and those available in records. To address and minimize
this issue, NHAI through the NGOs has conducted upfront ownership establishment exercise
through Family Tree Analysis. This has helped in identifying the actual owners at ground much
in advance and establishing their data base which subsequently passed on to SLAO for his/her
use in legalizing the actual owners. This has also helped in minimizing the disputes among the
family members and facilitated understanding on their due share in the compensation and
assistance amounts. This method is recommended in supplementing the effort of land
administration department with low capacity to address large scale land acquisition requirement
and early resolution of ownership disputes.




                                              31
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
                     (if any)

                 Not Applicable.




                       32
           Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


                    ALLAHABAD BYPASS WORLD BANK PROJECT
                              (LOAN NO. 4719-IN)

                           Implementation Completion Result Report


1. Brief on the project:
Govt. of India received Loan assistance of World Bank for the construction of the new bypass at
northern outskirt of Allahabad City under its Allahabad Bypass Project Loan Assistance
Program. This 84.708 km. long project includes construction of the new access controlled four
lane carriageway with service road on both sides, construction of cross drainage structures,
providing traffic safety features, etc. The entire stretch lies in the State of Uttar Pradesh. The
loan of US$ 240 million was signed with World Bank on 16.12.2003 for Allahabad Bypass
Project. Major part of the loan assistance is for Bypass construction works. The loan became
effective on 15.03.2004 and was closed on 30.06.2009. The borrower is Govt. of India, Ministry
of Finance, Dept. of Economic Affairs and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), is the
implementing agency for the project.


2. Brief Description of the Project Objectives and Components
The basic objectives of the project were to reduce transport constraints on economic activity and
reduce transport costs along with the improvement of the institutional capabilities to manage
road programs, assets and service. Overall scope of project included the following:
       ·   Construction of 84.708 km. long new bypass at northern outskirt of Allahabad
           City.
       ·   Construction supervision with the help of international consultants.
       ·   Corridor Management and Institutional strengthening.
With the above objectives the project comprised of three components; 1) Bypass Construction, 2)
Corridor Management, 3) Institutional Strengthening. The bypass construction component
comprises of total three packages, one bridge package of length 1.011 Km. (ABP-1) and two
road packages of 38.987 Km. (ABP-2) & 45.708 Km. (ABP-3) respectively.
Project Component 1 (Bypass Construction) involves:
       (a) Civil works for building the 84.7 Km. full access controlled, 4-lane divided
           carriageway including service roads, wherein a 1 Km. 4-lane bridge over the Ganga
           River, and environmental management including tree plantation.
       (b) Supervision of civil works.
       (c) Land acquisition, resettlement and utility relocation.
       (d) NHAI project management costs.


                                               33
*Project Component 2 (Corridor Management) involves:
        (a) Performance-based contracts to private operators for initial deficiency removal works
            and maintenance for 5 years.
        (b) Procurement of ATMS and user fee collection system.
        (c) Taxes on equipment.
(*Project Component 2 (Corridor Management) for ATMS could not be implemented as the
identified corridors for ATMS were proposed for 6-laning under NHDP Phase-V. This
component was later shifted to component-1)
Project Component 3 (Institutional Strengthening) involves:
To fund independent and periodic surveys of road users and road sector stakeholders during the
project period, to determine the level of their awareness, involvement and satisfaction with the
delivery, management and operation of National Highways by NHAI.
3) Assessment of the Achievement of Project Development Objective
The main objective of the Loan i.e to Construct the by pass was achieved as per the target, with
the following salient features.
     (i) Use of pond ash in embankment to the tune of 55 lakh cum.
    (ii) Construction of 4-lane divided carriageway in concrete pavement with a provision for
         extra lane on each carriageway towards median side.
    (iii)Construction of parallel Service Road on both sides of main carriageway as possible
         collector of local traffic and links to nearest underpass and overpass.
    (iv) Access controlled highway with the design speed of 100 kmph.with adequate safety
         measures
    (v) Provision of 32 number of Vehicular underpasses and 7 number of passenger under pass
         on OPR/important bituminous roads.
    (vi) Provision of 2 Grade separators on both ends of bypass for safe and uninterrupted
         movement of traffic in all directions.
    (vii) Provision of 3 interchanges where bypass crossing the National/State Highways (NH-
         24B), Allahabad-Lucknow; NH-96, Allahabad-Faizabad and SH-7, Allahabad-Jaunpur.
    The bypass has considerably reduced the travel time on NH-2 in general and between Kanpur
to Varanasi in particular, reduction in transport cost of goods, provided connectivity to the
adjacent areas and has provided access to emergency services.

4. Output of Project component:
The target of 84.708 km. of project corridor was set for construction of new access controlled
four lane road with service road on both sides, construction of cross drainage structures,
providing traffic safety features, etc., including planting of trees (along full length) and
satisfactory safety audit was achieved for total length of 84.708 km till loan closure date as on
June 2009 (details are as per Annexure-I). Component wise achievements can broadly be
summarised as under:




                                               34
    Component           Output Indicators as given in             Out Put at Completion
                                    PAD
1. Cost effective     1.1. Ex post ERR of project            Evaluation being done by the
delivery of           corridor above 20%.                    World Bank by way of economic
increased traffic                                            analysis through a Consultant.
capacity and
improved quality
on National
Highways.
                      1.2. All civil work contracts          Achieved with slight shifting as
                      delivered to time, budget, cost and    detailed in the progress report
                      safety constraints.                    enclosed at Annexure-A
                      1.3. 100% delivery of entitlements     Completed
                      to PAFs and restoration of
                      common property resources as and
                      when planned in RAP.
                      1.4. All EMPs carried out in           Completed
                      accordance with contract clauses.
                      1.5. Level of users' satisfaction      Users are satisfied
                      with the performance of road
                      infrastructure on project corridor
                      increased.
2. Improved road      2.1. O&M for selected NH carried       This component was dropped as
safety, maintenance   out under performance-based            part of the restructuring of the
and management of     contract to private operator.          loan, due to the recent GoI
National Highways.                                           decision for six-laning of these
                      2.2. Number of accidents and           corridors.
                      fatalities per 1000 km of NH
                      reduced on project road to the
                      levels significantly below the state
                      averages.
3. Improved           Road user satisfaction surveys         Two road user satisfaction survey
institutional         carried out on the regular basis.      were carried out.
capacity


5. Impact of Institutional Development

There were three Managers, a DGM and a GM posted on Allahabad Bypass Project. In addition
to this, Supervision Consultant and Evaluation Consultant were also engaged for the project. The
project has been monitored by these personnel satisfactory. Environmental mitigation measures
have been taken care of according to the environmental management plan. There is no significant
impact on flora and fauna as well as other inhabitations of the vicinity. A road user satisfaction
survey has also been conducted during this period in two phases. The final outcome of the 2nd


                                                35
survey is yet to be come from the consultant engaged whereas according to the out of the 1st
survey the satisfaction level of the road users is quite high.

6. Justification of Sustainability of the Project Achievements

Due to construction of bypass, traffic from Kanpur to Varanasi will go directly without entering
Allahabad city. This will save time as well as money of the road users. As far as safety aspect is
concerned this four lane divided carriageway will also meet out the safety aspects of the traffic.
As far as collection of toll is concerned, it will be evaluated after starting the toll on the bypass.
In the social aspect, it was aimed to alleviate the poverty & boosting the prosperity of PAFs
through integrated and holistic approaches. The special importance has been given to socially
and economically vulnerable group of Displaced Project Affected Persons, such as women
headed households (WHH), the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and the economically
vulnerable group of people living below poverty line. All out efforts have been made to ensure
the payment of compensation and assistance to the PAP for their acquired /affected assets to that
much of amount which can replace their earlier assets based on market rate with a prime motive
to restore and/or improve their livelihood. For this exercise the intensive efforts have been done
to reach out the Project Affected Persons (PAPs) through exhaustive socio economic and
household, base line survey and assessment of their needs through participatory appraisal. The
PAFs have been consistently consulted for their Resettlement & Rehabilitation through focused
group-discussions and through individual meetings. PAFs participation in Rehabilitation & Socio
Economic Development has been invariably ensured at each stage of RAP implementation.

7. Arrangement for Operation and Future Maintenance of the Assets

Civil Contractor will take care of the maintenance work during Defect Liability Period i.e. upto
one year of the handing over of site. The Allahabad Bypass is planned to be widened upto six
lane under NHDP Phase-V to be constructed through BOT (Toll) DBFO pattern. The
Concessionaire will take care of the maintenance of road and other asset during Concession
Period. In case of any deferment in taking up six laning of the stretch the maintenance shall be
taken up with the engagement of suitable agencies as is being done at present for similar
completed works through the Corridor Management Division of NHAI which exclusively is
looking after the O&M aspects of completed stretches.

8. Evaluation of the Performance of the World Bank

Overall performance of the bank was satisfactory. The project team focused on relevance,
making sure that the project objectives were in line with the Bank's country assistance strategy
and met the Government priorities. Similarly the assistance of the bank in project preparation
was highly satisfactory. The bank assigned a highly qualified team with appropriate skill mix in
the areas of Engineering, planning, highway construction, institutional development and training.

 In supervision of the project also the bank's contribution was huge; the good approach in the
identification of the problems and constructive advice of the banks team had a lot advantage in
effective implementation of the highway project.



                                                 36
The assistance provided by the bank ensured quality at entry, supported at implementation
through responsive supervision and ensured adequate transition arrangement for regular
operation of the project.

9. Evaluation of the Performance of the Borrower and Implementing Agencies

The fund borrowed from the International Bank of Reconstruction and Development (The World
Bank) has adequately used on the project. The cost of the project has been increased due to delay
in the construction of the project, which was due to false alignment in DPR, and due to this land
acquisition process has to be carried out twice. Although there was some mismatch in the DPR
and ground condition, the project has been completed the shortest possible time.

10. Lessons Learned

At the completion of this project the following subjects came across which educated NHAI for
the future projects.

i)      Comprehensive group insurance policy of PAPs for the project duration.
ii)     Capacity building of PIU, NGO and contractor's staff for welfare activities of contract
        labour through effective enforcement of labour laws, women empowerment statutory
        provisions, environmental and safety issue, etc.
iii)    Enlargement of role of DRB Consultant.
iv)     Posting of CRRO (social and environmental issues) having social background.
v)      Administration of regulated awarding.
vi)     Public Consultations at the stage of DPR preparation.
vii)    Involving the state administration in providing feedbacks to the DPR consultant for
        taking in to account all sorts of issues/pending grievances of the public being affected due
        to the project.
viii)   Provision of more vehicular under passes at an average interval of 4-5 km against 10 km
        in GQ and pedestrian underpass at internal of about 2-3 km.
ix)     Provision of more service roads.
x)      Solve the issues related to ROBs well in advances of the project award.
xi)     Peer Review of DPR.
xii)    Proof checking of design of major structures.




                                                37
                                                                                                                             Annexure-I

                                                ALLAHABAD BYPASS PROJECT (ABP)


S.      Name of works and      State   Length    Tendered       Month of         Scheduled     Anticipated     Physical       Completed four
No.   location four laning &            (km)       Cost       Commencement       month of       Date of      progress till     lane length till
          strengthening                         (INR crore)                    completion as   Completion    loan closure    loan closure date
                                                                                per contract                  date as on      as on June 2009
                                                                                                              June 2009
1.    Allahabad Bypass         UP      1.02     108.23        September 2003   March 2006
      Contract I (Bridge)                                                                                       Completed
      Km 158 to Km 159.02



2.    Allahabad Bypass         UP      39       446.99        June 2004        Dec 2006        June 2009         95%         39.00 (Road work
      Contract II                                                                                                            fully completed
      Km 158 to 198                                                                                                          except for guide
                                                                                                                             bund work)
3.    Allahabad Bypass         UP      44.7     505.27        November 2004    May 2007        June 2009         92%         44.70
      Contract III                                                                                                           (Carriageway
      Km 198 to 242.708                                                                                                      completed)




                                                                      38
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

                         Not Applicable.




                               39
                      Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank Documents
1.    Project Appraisal Document for the Allahabad Bypass Project, September 9, 2003
2.    Loan agreement for the Allahabad Bypass Project, December 16, 2003
3.    Project Agreement for the Allahabad Bypass Project, December 16, 2003
4.    Amendment of Loan Agreement, June 25, 2009

Project Status Reports/Implementation Status and Results Reports

PSR Sequence #1 (Nov.14, 2003) to ISR Sequence #13 (June. 25, 2009)

Aide-memoire/Management letters
1.    Preparation mission, August 27-September 6, 2001
2.    Preparation mission, July 15-August 2, 2002
3.    Appraisal mission, April 21-28, 2003
4.    Supervision mission, October 28-November 17, 2003
5.    Supervision mission, April 5-May 3, 2004
6.    Supervision mission, April 11-26, 2005
7.    Note on Financial Management, August 2005
8.    Supervision mission, November 29, 2004-January 4, 2005
9.    Supervision mission, December 1-27, 2005
10.   Note on Financial Management, December 1-27, 2005
11.   Safeguard Note, December 1-27, 2005
12.   Environmental Note, December 1-20, 2005
13.   Supervision mission, August 24-September 19, 2006
14.   Midterm review mission, February 19-21, 2007
15.   Interim review, March 9-17, 2007
16.   Supervision mission, June 28-July 18, 2007
17.   Supervision mission, October 9-11, 2007
18.   Supervision mission, January 31-March 12, 2008
19.   Note on Financial Management, June 2008
20.   Supervision mission, October 30-November 20, 2008
21.   Supervision mission, May 18-26, 2009.

Reports
1.    Restructuring of National Highways Authority of India, March 2008
2.    Environmental Assessment Process Summary for Allahabad Bypass of NH-2, July 2003
3.    Report on the Selection of alternative Sites for the Allahabad Bypass, March 1999
4.    Design and Construction Review of National Highway Projects - Lesson Learned, June
      7, 2007
5.    Road Users Satisfaction Survey on the Completed Sections of the Golden
      Quadrilateral, July 29, 2005
6.    Second Road Users Satisfaction Survey on the Completed Stretches of Four
      Golden Quadrilaterals-Draft Report, September 2009.



                                        40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 32658R
                                                           From                                                                                  To Pratapgarh                                                                          From Pratapgarh                                     From
     From                                                Jethwara                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Lucknow
    Manikpur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0                    5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               j
                                                                                                                                                        SH9                                                                                                                               an
                                           SH38                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      jg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Su
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mughal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Sarai

Kokhraj                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SH7


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      To Janghai
From Kanpur
                                                                                                                                           SH9

                From
              Bharwari          2                                                                                            SH38                                                                                                            Phulpur
                                                                        Rive
                                                                               r
                                                                                        Ga
                                                                                             ng
                                                                                                  a

            This map was produced by the
            Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To Wari
            The boundaries, colors, denominations
            and any other information shown on
            this map do not imply, on the part of
            The World Bank Group, any judgment
            on the legal status of any territory, or
                                                                                                                              Allahabad                                                SH7
            any endorsement or acceptance of
            such boundaries.



                                                        INDIA




                                                                                                                                       a
                                                                                                                                  un
                                                                                                                                  m
                ALLAHABAD BYPASS PROJECT

                                                                                                                               Ya
                                                                                                                            er
                                                                                                                                                            Naini
                                                                                                                           Riv                                                                                                          2                                   Handia
                                                        PROPOSED BYPASS

                                          2             NATIONAL HIGHWAYS
                                                                                                                                           27
                                         SH38           STATE HIGHWAYS                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Varanasi
                                                        MAJOR ROADS

                                                        OTHER ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                              ga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        G
                                                        RAILROADS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ve
                                                        BUILT-UP AREAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ri
                                                                                                                                    To Mangwan                                                             To Mirzapur




                                                           78°                                                                    80°                       C H I N A                          82°                                                          84°
                        Ambala                                   Dehra Dun                                                                                                                                                                   CITIES, BY POPULATION:
                                      Yamunangar                                                                                                                                                                                    Gorhar


      30°                                       Saharanpur
                                                                           UTTARANCHAL                                                                                                                                             Katihar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <100,000

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  100,000­250,000                                   30°
                    A




                                                                      Haridwar
                                    na




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Gorakhpur
                AN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  250,000­500,000
                                    u
                                Yam




                  Karnal
                                                                                                                                                                        24            NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                            Agra           500,000­1,000,000
                                                       Muzaffarnagar
            HARY




                  Panipat                                                                                                                                                             OTHER ROADS                       Lucknow                   1,000,000­2,500,000
                                                                                                                     Haldwani
                                                                                                                                                                                      RAILROADS
                            1
                   Sonepat
                                                       Meerut                                                                                                                         RIVERS
                                                                        Amroha
10                                                                                         Moradabad
   Rohtak          New                                  Hapur
                                                                 24
                                                                                                      Rampur
                                                                                                                              Pilibhit
                                                                                                                                                                        0                            100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Lucknow            STATE CAPITALS

                  Delhi
                  Gurgaon                  Ghaziabad Sambhal
                                                                                                                                                                                  Kilometers                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL


                                                        Bulandshahr                                               Bareilly                                                                                                                        STATE BOUNDARIES


            8
                  Faridabad                                                                                                                                                             N E PA L                                                  INTERNATIONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BOUNDARIES
            28°                                                                                         Budaun                                                                                                                                                                                      28°
                                                                 Aligarh                                                           Shahjahanpur
To Jaipur




                                          2                                                              Ga
                                                                                                               nga
                                                       Hathras
      RAJAS




                                                                                                                                                                                      Bahraich
                                                                                                                                                                            Gha




                                                                                                                                                       Sitapur
                                                                                                                                           Hardoi
                                                       Mathura
                                                                                                         U T T A R
                                                                                                                                                                             gha
                                                                                                                                                                               ra




                                Bharatpur
                                                                          Firozabad                                                                     24
                                                                                                               Fategarh
                             11                                 Agra                                                                                           Lucknow
                THA




                                                                                                      Etawah                                                                              Faizabad                                       Gorakhpur
                                                                      Chamba                                                                                                                                    28
                   N




                                                                                    l
                                                                                   Bhind                                         Kanpur             Unnao
                                                                                                                 2         Pratappur


                                                Gwalior                                                         Sikandra
                                                                                                                              Bhognipur
                                                                                                                                                    P R A D E S H        Rae Bareli
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Gh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ag
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ha
      26°                                                                                                                                                    Fatehpur                                                                                                                      ra 26°
                                                                                                        25                                                                                                                                     Maunath Bhanjan
                                                                                                                                                                     Khaga        See detail above                   Jaunpur
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 a                               Chapra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ng
                                                                         Jhansi                                                                                         Kokhraj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ga                                         Arrah


                                                                                                                                                                     Allahabad                         Handia        Varanasi                                                                      30
                                                                                                                                                                                             Naini
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mohania
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mughal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mirzapur       Sarai                                                 n
                                                                                                                                                                                      27                                                                                        So
                                                                                                                                                                                                       7                                                                    Dehri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sasaram
                                         3
                                                                                                                                                             Satna      Rewa                                                                                          Aurangabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sherghati




       24°
                                                                               26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JHARKHAND24°
                                                                                           Sagar                                                 Murwara
                                                           78°                                                                    80°                                                          82°                                                          84°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            APRIL 2010
