 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14880

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 10/16/2015

               Country: Indonesia
             Project ID: P077175                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Id-domestic Gas               Project Costs (US$M):                 122.10                  81.57
                         Market Development
                         Project
  L/C Number:            L4810; L7755                 Loan/Credit (US$M):                    80.00                 61.77
      Sector Board:      Energy and Mining            Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                 12/13/2005
                                                             Closing Date:              03/31/2011          10/31/2013
          Sector(s):       Oil and gas (100%)
          Theme(s):        State-owned enterprise restructuring and privatization (50% - P); Pollution management and
                           environmental health (25% - S); Infrastructure services for private sector development (25% -
                           S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Ranga Rajan                George T. K. Pitman     Christopher David          IEGPS1
Krishnamani                                        Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The project development objectives as stated in the Loan Agreement (Schedule 2, page 14) was:

    "To improve economic efficiency and reduce pollution in Indonesia by expanding the use of natural gas in the
    Borrower's domestic market” .

The Project Development Objective as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (page 4) was:

    "To improve economic efficiency and reduce pollution by substituting natural gas for more expensive and more
    polluting fuels, such as diesel, fuel oil and coal."

In line with IEG practice, this review is based on the project development objectives as stated in the Loan Agreement.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:

There were two components:

(a) Gas Distribution Infrastructure : (estimated cost at appraisal US$86.97 million: actual cost at closure US$64.56
million). This component aimed at supporting gas sales to industrial customers in Indonesia's provinces of Banten and
West Java, which accounted for more than 60 percent of the demand in West Java. The planned activities included (i)
Construction of 300 steel pipelines 4-16 inches in diameter with a cumulative length of about 185 km along with
control valves, fittings and corrosion control facilities in the two provinces. (ii) Construction of class 150 steel pipelines
of 4-16 inches in diameter with a cumulative length of about 71.4 kilometers, along with control valves, fittings and
corrosion control facilities in the two provinces (iii) Installation of five off-take and two regulating stations. (iv)
Installation of about 210 customer metering and regulating stations, (v) Installation of a Supervisory Control and Data
Acquisition (SCADA) system for pressure and flow control, and monitoring. and, (vi) Provision of radio and
telecommunications equipment, Information Technology (IT) support and emergency response equipment.

(b): Capacity Building: (estimated cost at appraisal US$6.20 million: actual cost at closure US$12.21 million. This
component planned to provide assistance to the staff of the implementing agency, PT Perusahaan Gas Negara
(Persero) TBK (hereafter referred to as PGN) in building staff capacity in the areas of financial management,
infrastructure planning, gas marketing, gas utilization, distribution system safety and integrity management and gas
transmission and compression.

Although the project components were not revised, some technical outputs and activities under component a were
revised following the first project restructuring (discussed below).(ICR, pages 8-9)


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Cost: At appraisal, the estimated baseline cost was US$93.17 million. In addition, there were costs
associated with physical and price contingencies (US$6.80 million and US$4.31 million),Value Added Tax (US$10.43
million) and Interest during construction (US$7.40 million).The total appraised cost was US$122.10 million. The actual
cost at closure was US$81.57 million, or 66.9% of the appraisal estimate. The actual cost at closure was lower than
the appraised estimate due to changes in project activities. Following the first project restructuring, the total length of
class 300 pipelines to be financed by the Bank was reduced from the appraisal estimate of 256 km to 123 km. This
change was due to a combination of factors: (i) the decision by PGN to build branch lines in the Greater Jakarta and
Karawang areas using its own funds for expediting connection to new customers; (ii) the route of a pipeline in the
Jakarta area was realigned to meet municipal requirements and qualify for the necessary work permits. Substantial
changes were made also to the technical specifications of the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA)
System and Telecommunications system packages. Changes were made in the specifications of the SCADA system
to incorporate an additional back-up master control system for system reliability, and open access architecture; and
the specifications of the telecommunication equipment were changed to match the redesign of the SCADA system.
The planned location for the Serpong off-take system was replaced by two off-take states at Bitung (Bitung 2 and 3)
due to the difficulties associated with finding suitable land at Serpong.

Financing: The original approved IBRD loan amount was US$80.00 million. At completion, US$61.77 million had been
disbursed. A total of US$18.2 million was cancelled from the loan at project closure. There was external financing for
complementary sector activities - including US$500 million from private investors for further field development and
US$485 million from the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) to PGN for a transmission project to
increase gas supply to West Java- the South Sumatera to West Java (SSWJ) transmission line and a distribution line
in West Java.

Borrower Contribution : At appraisal, the Borrower's contribution was estimated at US$42.30 million. At closure, their
contribution was less than planned at US$20.00 million primarily because project beneficiaries (such as private
companies and industries converting to natural gas from alternative fuels) had also invested considerable amounts,
including some costs that were originally expected to be covered either by the Bank Loan or by PGN (such as
installing project financed metering and regulating sections). The costs covered by non-government sources were,
however, neither systematically estimated at appraisal nor recorded during implementation (ICR, page 35).

Dates: There were three level-two project restructurings. The first restructuring on January 5, 2011, extended the
project closing date by 36 months to March 31, 2014 to March 31. 2014 to allow time for completing the redesign of
the SCADA system (discussed in Section 2c). The second restructuring on July 4, 2011, led to the cancellation of
US$10.6 million from the Loan. The third restructuring on February 1, 2013, besides cancelling US$7.6 million of the
Loan, advanced the project closing date from March 31, 2014 to October 30, 2013 to enable completion of all project
activities by then.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

High:
At appraisal the project development objectives were highly relevant to the national energy sector security of
Indonesia. Encouraging investments in the natural gas sector by providing incentives for the large industrial users of
gas (such as power stations, fertilizer and chemical factories and other energy intensive industries) to switch from
alternative fuels (such as oil, diesel and coal) to gas was important in the Indonesian context for several reasons.
One, although Indonesia’s potential for producing natural gas (estimated at more than 2.5 trillion cubic meters), was
among the largest in the region, domestic consumption of gas by power and medium-sized enterprises was among
the lowest in the region as a proportion of total energy national consumption. Two, natural gas was relatively
inexpensive and less polluting than other fossil fuels. Three, Indonesia’s falling oil production had resulted in it
becoming a net importer of oil and refined petroleum products, the main alternatives to natural gas in Indonesia. The
project development objective to expand use of natural gas in the domestic market was also highly relevant to the
Government’s implementation of the Oil and Gas Law enacted in 2001 which gave Indonesia the first modern legal
framework to fundamentally reform the oil and gas sector through (a) gradual development of a competitive market,
(b) the establishment of an implementing body for upstream activities and an independent regulatory agency for
downstream activities; (c) the unbundling of the traditional vertically integrated oil and gas business.

The project development objective were relevant to the Bank strategy at appraisal and consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), approved by the Board on October 29, 2003. The CAS identified the need for overcoming
the low rate of investment and weak public services, as the two major impediments to reducing poverty in Indonesia.

The objectives remain relevant to the current country strategy agreed with Indonesia. The Country Partnership
Strategy (CPS) for the fiscal years of 2013-2015 was aligned with the Government’s “Master Plan for Acceleration and
Expansion of Indonesia's Economic Development 2011-2025. This plan identified the need for promoting growth and
reducing poverty through providing conducive macro-economic and regulatory conditions for accelerating and
expanding investments.


b. Relevance of Design:

Substantial

The statement of desired outcomes is clear, although there is no reference to the institutional strengthening
dimensions of the project. The linkages between the project activities, their outputs and the intended outcome is
logical: and the intended outcomes were, for the most part, measurable.

Component (a) activities (such as supporting gas sales to industrial customers) were relevant to the expansion of the
gas distribution network in the two provinces. Component (b) activities (such as capacity-building activities to the staff
of (PGN) in the areas of financial management, infrastructure planning, gas marketing, gas utilization, distribution
safety system and integrity management, gas transmission and compression can be expected to improve the
financial, operational and planning skills of the PGN staff. The other aspects of design such as capacity building
support to the PGN for implementing the recommendations of the ongoing studies on rationalization of the natural gas
pricing system and to meet the requirements of the new law for addressing the barriers to entry in the gas sector can
be expected to contribute to the restructuring of PGN. To mitigate procurement risks, the design incorporated an
Anti-corruption plan and strategy (discussed in section 11).

The combination of these activities was expected to contribute to the project development objective of improving
economic efficiency and reducing pollution in Indonesia through expanding the use of natural gas in Indonesia, and to
the higher level objectives of increasing Indonesia's national energy security by using more of its abundant natural gas
domestically.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

The efficacy of the project objective – to improve economic efficiency and reduce pollution in Indonesia by expanding
the use of natural gas in the Borrower’s territory – is assessed in relation to its two objectives.

(1). To improve economic efficiency (of the gas sector in Indonesia) by expanding the use of natural gas.
(2).To reduce pollution by expanding the use of natural gas in Indonesia.

Project outputs, which were common to the two objectives, were as follows:

Outputs
    The gas distribution network of Banten province in West Java was expanded, and the Banten supply main line
     and reticulation mains were completed at project closure as targeted.
    The gas distribution network of Jakarta/Karawang in West Java was as expanded, and the Jakarta/Karawang
     main line and reticulation mains were completed at project closure, as targeted. The PGN used its own funds to
     build branch lines in the Greater Jakarta/Karawang area to expedite the connection of new customers.
    All off take stations of the West Java gas distribution network were expanded as targeted.
    The Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) and the Telecommunication Systems were installed and
     commissioned into service at the project closure stage for assisting PGN with system control and security, gas
     metering, and financial transaction settlements as targeted. The SCADA system consisted of: One Master
     Control Station (MCS), One Back up Master Control System, ten off take stations, twenty big customers, seven
     district offices, ten Automatic Meter Readers, twenty-five pressure monitoring devices and two Object Linking and
     Embedding Process Control (OPC) Tunneling.
    252 Metering and Regulating Stations were delivered to customers including 88 in Banten and 164 in West Java).
     This exceeded the target value of 210 set at appraisal.
    Special Operations and Management tools and equipment were procured as per the target.
    The plan for restructuring of PGN was adopted in the selected project areas as targeted.
    A Long-Term Technical Collaboration Services Contract for assisting PGN in building capacity for PGN staff (in
     the areas of engineering and planning, operations and integrity management system, quantitative risk
     assessment, gas transmission and review of Information Technology) was completed as targeted.
    Safety and Integrity Management Systems were established and operational by mid-2009 and a Health Safety
     and Environment Management Committee was established as targeted.
    Although the plan for providing Third Party Access (TPA) to PGN’s Gas Distribution networks was completed as
     targeted, it had not been adopted at project closure.
    A Gas Pricing Study for efficient pricing of gas was completed by PGN and submitted to the Bank in 2006 as
     targeted.
    Draft Methodology and Implementation Rules for transmission and distribution targets were developed and sent
     to the Bank as targeted.


Outcomes.

Objective 1. To improve economic efficiency (of the gas sector in Indonesia ) by expanding the use of natural gas ;
Substantial. All targets were either realized or exceeded,
  According to the statistics maintained by PGN, their sales of natural gas sales increased to 650 Million standard
    Cubic Feet per day (Mscfd) as compared to the target of 423 Macfd. This represented a 153% increase relative to
    the target value.
  At closure, there were 598 conversions to natural gas by new customers at project closure, as compared to the
    target of 120 customers. This represented a 498% increase relative to the target value. The new customers, were
    mainly large industrial users of gas (such as electricity power plants and other industries, commercial and small
    medium enterprises, and residential energy consumers) who accounted for 97% of PGN’s gas sales.

Objective 2. To reduce pollution in Indonesia by expanding the use of natural gas in the Borrower’s domestic
market. Substantial.

All targets were realized and all were significantly exceeded. Not all of the outcomes however can be attributed to this
project. While a precise assessment of attribution is not possible, it is reasonable to conclude that expansion of the
use of natural gas, played a significant role in reducing pollution in Indonesia.

Outcomes:

The substitution from other fossil fuels (such as fuel oil, diesel and coal) to gas mainly by industrial users in the project
region led to reductions in emissions from major pollutants. The methodology followed for calculating pollutant
emissions was by multiplying emission coefficients of pollutants by energy consumed (PAD, page 23). The reduction
in emission due to substitution of other fossil fuels by gas at project closure were:
   Emission of Sulphur Dioxide was reduced to 90,180 tons a year as compared to the target of 56,000 tons.
   Emission of Nitrogen Oxide was reduced to 108,948 tons a year as compared to the target of 68,000 tons.
   Emission of Total Suspended Particles was reduced to 51,230 tons a year as compared to the target of 32,000
     tons.
   Emission of Carbon Dioxide Equivalents was reduced to 2,645,376 tons a year as compared to the target of
     1,653,000 tons


5. Efficiency:
 Substantial:

Economic and Financial Efficiency :

At appraisal, an economic analysis was conducted for the investment component of the project (expansion of gas
distribution infrastructure) The input costs included both construction costs, and estimates associated with life cycle
Operation and Maintenance (O&M). The economic benefits of the project (cash flow from sales of gas to PGN) was
based on the assumption that the economic value of gas was equal to the consumers’ willingness-to-pay for gas. The
analysis was carried out using two scenarios: (i) "with the project" scenario, and the benefits were assumed to come
through the investments in gas transmission and distribution networks, and (ii) "without the project" scenario, under
the assumption that without the project the industries would continue to rely on fuel oil and diesel. The ex-post
Economic Internal Rate of Return EIRR was 64%, or three times the ex ante EIRR of 20%.

Operational and Administrative Efficiency

There were operational and administrative inefficiencies which led to implementation delays and thereby to the
extension of the project closing date by 36 months from March 31, March 31, 2014. Despite being ready for
implementation in February 6, 2006, the project started three to five months later, due to factors such as delays
associated with the initial poor quality of bidding documents and the unfamiliarity of the Project Management
Consultant with procurement procedures and Bank guidelines. Changes in the scope of works after the bidding
documents had been issued (such as with the specification of the SCADA and Telecommunication packages) delayed
the finalization of bidding documents. The project, however, closed six months earlier than rescheduled on October
31, 2013, as all activities had been completed by then.




 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         Yes                                     20%                                     71%

    ICR estimate                      Yes                                     64%                                     79%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

The project development objectives were highly relevant to the country and relevance of design was rated as
Substantial. Efficacy of the two objectives, “ to improve economic efficiency (of the gas sector in Indonesia) by
expanding the use of natural gas” and “to reduce pollution in Indonesia by expanding the use of natural gas." is rated
as Substantial. All outcome targets were either achieved or exceeded. Efficiency was rated as Substantial, with an
EIRR above appraisal estimates, although there were operational and administrative inefficiencies and the project
closing date was extended by 28 months, not the 34 months anticipated.

 a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

There is a risk to development outcome that the new customers who were connected with natural gas infrastructure
would revert to other fossil fuels. This risk is deemed to be low in view of the considerable capital costs associated
with the remodeling process for switching back to other fossil fuels from natural gas. Further, the price of natural gas
was the more cost-effective option for industrial users without the subsidies on fuel oil and diesel. The ICR (page 28)
reports that the government’s 2005 policy decision "appears to be irreversible”

The policy recommendations regarding the Third Party Access regime - and thereby opening the sector to competition
- had not been adopted by the government at project closure. In the absence of binding legislation, there is a modest
risk to development outcome.
   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

Preparation of this project built upon the experience of prior Bank financed energy sector projects in Indonesia
(Gas Distribution Project in West Java and North Sumatra, Gas Utilization Project in Surabaya and other towns in
the vicinity of East Java, and the Java – Bali Power Sector Restructuring and Strengthening Project). Ex post
reviews of these project indicated that in addition to expanding the physical network, issues regarding gas pricing
and restructuring of PGN needed to be addressed for the development of the energy sector. The design reflected
this by having, in addition to investments for expanding natural gas distribution networks, an incentive structure to
encourage investments in the market, sector, such as by providing Third Party Access. The implementation
arrangements were suitable as PGN , the implementing agency had prior experience with the financial and
procurement policies of the multilateral organizations (having already implemented two Bank financed projects
and an Asian Development Bank financed gas infrastructure expansion project) and projects financed by Japan
Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC). Financial and Safeguard policy issues and Fiduciary issues were
adequately addressed and since the project was linked to a transmission project financed by JBIC, the
Environmental Impact Assessment Report prepared at appraisal was approved by JBIC as well.

Risks directly associated with the project were identified, including a substantial risk related to weakness in
country control environment and financial accountability systems. An Anti-Corruption Action Plan was formulated
to address concerns about endemic corruption in the country. The plan identified potential corruption risks and
specified mitigation measures, and since the project mainly financed activities pertaining to building new gas
infrastructure, the corruption plan focused on reducing the potential for corruption around procurement related
issues.

Even so, there were some shortcomings in M&E, as its design did not have adequate indicators to measure the
effectiveness of the technical assistance components of the project.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

Project supervision was adequately carried out through regular missions, of which there were nine. Although the
ICR (page 30) does not provide details in terms of the continuity of the team, the evidence indicates that the
supervision team was proactive in identifying problems and addressing the issues that arose during the project
implementation phase, such as by working effectively with the PGN’s newly appointed Project Management
Consultant to prepare terms of reference and evaluating key procurement packages in the initial years of the
project. With regards to safeguards, the ICR reports satisfactory compliance with safeguard policies. Financial
management was reported to be generally adequate and there were no procurement issues.

There were minor shortcomings. The supervision team missed the opportunity for formally restructuring the
project, when there were significant changes in the Component One activities as discussed earlier. This led to the
cancellation of US$18.2 million of the Loan. Changes in the scope of works and specifications of SCADA and
telecommunication systems, after bidding documents had been issued, led to delays in finalizing the bidding
documents.

There was very little information on the outputs and outcomes during supervision in the critical areas of gas policy
and regulatory reforms.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:
a. Government Performance:

The government’s strong commitment to the project was evidenced by the following:
(i) the government implemented some, though not all of the project’s recommended reforms towards developing
Third Party Access Regime in the natural gas sector.
(ii) By 2013, the government had further divested shares in PGN, with the public holding 43.03 percent of PGN’s
shares and the balance by the government.

   Government Performance Rating                             Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

The project was implemented by PGN. As indicated earlier the agency had prior experience in implementing Bank
and donor financed projects. The project management unit was located at the PGN head office in Jakarta and
reported to the PGN's Board of Directors through the Director of Operations. The implementing agency was also
able to self-finance a large package due to the significant savings generated by a strong competition for goods
and works. Despite the initial delay of one year, with the extension of the closing date PGN was able to
commission into service all the gas transmission and distribution infrastructure by project closure.

The agency followed the Anti-Corruption Action Plan during the project implementation phase, and with the
exception of one issue which was resolved, the agency regularly submitted Anti-Corruption Implementation
Progress Reports. The implementing agency met the financial covenants as there were no known issues of
corruption relating to this project at project closure.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                  Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

The key project development indictors (an increase in utilization of natural gas and reduction of air pollutant
emissions) were appropriate and could be measured. The key intermediate outcome indicator - the physical delivery
of new gas distribution infrastructure in the project area - was appropriate. There was no specific key project
development indicator for measuring “efficiency" and the M&E design was weak with respect to the measurement of
the effectiveness of the technical assistance components of the project.

b. M&E Implementation:

The data from the statistical system maintained by PGN was used for monitoring gas sales and the number of
customers converted to gas. The ICR (page 14) notes that the collection of the M&E data was carried out effectively
by the PGN through implementation phase.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The results of M&E were utilized both for tracking progress and measuring the impacts of the investment financed
by the project.


M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues
a. Safeguards:

The project was classified as a “Category A" project under OP/BP4.01 Environmental Assessment. The safeguard
policy for Involuntary Resettlement (OP4.12) was triggered for the project mainly due to its link to the upstream and
downstream infrastructure investments financed by other investors (such as the JBIC financed transmission project),
who also benefitted from the Bank investments.

An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was prepared at the appraisal stage based on the results of an
Environmental Impact Assessment Report that had been conducted earlier. The plan was prepared on the basis of
public consultations and was disclosed as required under Indonesia's Legal and Institutional System widely known by
its acronym - The AMDAL (Analisis Mengenai Dampak Lingkungan Hidup. The plan was approved by the JBIC as
well. The plan identified the possible adverse environmental impacts, and the procedures and measures to be taken
to mitigate such impacts. The ICR (page 15) notes that environmental safeguards compliance of the project was
satisfactory.

During project implementation, PGN also took steps to mainstream environmental management into its corporate
activities, through establishing an Environmental Coordination Office in 2008, and through having a fully staffed
Committee for Health, Safety and Environmental Management.

Involuntary Resettlement : A Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was prepared by the implementing agency to comply
with AMDAL procedures. Since the gas pipelines of the project were to be built primarily in urban and industrial areas,
there was potential for disruption to businesses, residents and other facilities on account of construction activities. The
PGN agreed to compensate any affected businesses for potential loss of income according the General Policy on
Land Acquisition and Compensation. The land acquisition process was deemed to be satisfactory by the Bank and
there was compliance with the social safeguards policies at closure (ICR page 17).


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Financial Management : At the appraisal the financial management risks were deemed to be moderate, and the risk
mitigation measures included: (i) the adoption of quarterly financial management reports. (ii) external audits by leading
private sector accounting firms. and (iii) strengthened procedures for validating and approving payments to
contractors. The ICR (page 18) reports that quarterly financial management reports were submitted for the most part
in a timely fashion, and that the audits were unqualified.

Procurement: Although the overall project risk for procurement was assessed as average, corruption and collusive
practices were perceived as nation-wide issues. To mitigate procurement risks, the design incorporated the following
features: (i) An Anti-corruption plan and strategy with enhanced disclosure provisions for transparency, reducing the
potential for fraud and nepotism through general stakeholder oversight, complaints handling mechanism to be
enforced independent investigation; (ii) the hiring of an external project management company. (iii) A detailed
procurement plan and construction schedule; and, (iv) the hiring of a firm for third-party inspection to certify quality of
goods and works. The overall procurement process was deemed to be satisfactory.(ICR, page 18). There were no
reported cases of misprocurement.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                 IEG Review                      Reason for
                                                                                        Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low           Moderate
                     Outcome:                                                     All the policy recommendations
                                                                                  regarding the Third Party Access
                                                                                  regime were not adopted by the
                                                                                  government and in the absence of
                                                                                  binding legislation, there is a modest
                                                                               risk to development outcome.
           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

Two main lessons are summarized from the ICR.

(1) Institutions are as important as infrastructure for ensuring the sustainability of reforms in the energy sector .
Since regulatory and policy reforms are critical to market transformation, the supervision of the project needs to pay
as much attention to fundamental policy reforms as it does to the delivery and commissioning of physical
infrastructure and its impacts.

(2) Careful specifications of systems is necessary at the design stage to reduce delays during project
implementation. In the case of this project, greater clarity from the start in specifying the SCADA and
telecommunication systems would have reduced the procurement delays.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR reported both outputs and outcome of the project. It was candid in its discussion of problem areas and also
clear in explaining how issues were resolved. For the most part, it was concise, and the discussion of the findings
and recommendation of the energy sectors studies financed by the Bank were useful The ICR however rated
components and not objectives. More information could have provided also on the quality of the Bank Supervision.
There is no information on the frequency of missions and the quality of the team in terms of technical expertise and
continuity.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
