Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 4840-CV 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Sixth Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 17, 2010  
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4840-CV 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated December 17, 2010, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
CAPE VERDE
 (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I.A of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic 
policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to six 
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,400,000) 
(variously, “Credit” and “Financing”).  
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Page  3
-2- 
 
2.06.  
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework and
 
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in 
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s 
macroeconomic policy framework. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
-3- 
 
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance  
 
C.P. 30 
 
Praia 
 
Cabo Verde 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
COORDENACAO 
608 MCECV 
 
 
(238) 61 38 97 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
Page  5
-4- 
 
AGREED at District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE 
 
By 
 
/s/ Maria de Fatima Lima da Veiga 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By 
 
/s/ McDonald P. Benjamin 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-5- 
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
A. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
.
The Recipient has taken the following 
actions:
 
Policy Area: Good Governance
1. 
Cleared its domestic arrears which were acknowledged in 2005, except for those 
with its municipal chambers which will be off-set through debts owed by the said 
municipalities to the central government, as
 evidenced by the Recipient’s 
Minister of Finance letter dated August 19, 2010. 
2. 
Submitted to its National Assembly the audited: (a) state general accounts for the 
year 2007, as evidenced by the 
Boletim Oficial
 Nr. 29 dated August 2, 2010; and 
(b) accounts of 13 municipalities, 5 embassies and 3 institutes, evidenced by the 
letter issued by the Recipient’s 
Tribunal de Contas
 dated October 19, 2010.  
3. 
Made fully operational the DSCP, as evidenced by: (a) the decree-law 45/200
9
which established it and defined its role; (b) the 
certificate
 No.72/2010 dated 
August 23, 2010, issued by the Minister of Finance; and (c) the activity plan (the 
Plano de Atividades)
 for 2010,
 issued by the DGPCP on January 2010, as 
evidenced by the activity plan and the
 
correlated implementation report dated 
September 2010.  
4. 
Improved its human resources management system allowing fo
r
the mobile 
placement of civil servants as evidenced by the Decree Nr.54/2009, dated 
December 7, 2009. 
 
5. 
Implemented its M&E system as evidenced by: (a) Resolution 12/2010 issued by 
the 
Conselho de Ministros
 whereby it certifies that COSiSA has been established; 
(b) the letter dated October 28, 2010, issued by DNP, NoSI and INE confirming 
that the platform
 
linking the M&E system to INE has been completed;  (c) the 
letter dated October 28, 2010, issued by DNP which certifies that the integrated 
financial management system for the Recipient’s budget, containing the M&E 
indicators for its programs in education, health, agriculture and infrastructure, has 
been completed; and (d) the
 
letter dated October 28, 2010, issued by DNP 
attaching the vision scope of the Recipient’s M&E system.  
Page  7
-6- 
 
Policy Area: Competitiveness
6. 
Caused the board of directors of the 
Banco do Cabo Verde 
to adopt the banking 
law bill on the legal framework for credit institutions and financing corporations 
and
 
to submit it to the 
Ministry of Finance
,
as evidenced by the letter dated 
October 29, 2010, sent by the Governor of the 
Banco de Cabo Verde
 to the 
Minister of Finance confirming therein that the supervisory authority of the 
Banco de Cabo Verde
 has been strengthened and that the onshore and offshore 
banking activities’ legislation has been unified.  
7. 
Taken steps towards improving its business climate, as evidenced by: (a) the 
letter  dated October 11, 2010, issued by the 
Conselho de Ministros
 
confirming 
that the bankruptcy law bill has been submitted by ADEI; (b) the letter dated 
October 11, 2010, issued by the 
Conselho de Ministros
 confirming that the 
decree-law providing the simplification of procedures for closing companies has 
been submitted by UCRE; and (c) Decree Nr 70/2009 dated December 30, 2009,  
issued by the 
Conselho de Ministros
 
establishing fixed values for real estate 
registration duties replacing the 
ad-valorem
 duties imposed by the Recipient. 
8. 
Adopted measures to improve the performance of ELECTRA as evidenced by: 
(a) the adoption by ELECTRA’s Board of Directors  of a comprehensive 
investment plan, including a financing and implementation schedule as evidenced 
by item 2 of the Act Nr. 19/2010 of ELECTRA’s Board of Directors dated on 
October 26, 2010e; (b)  the Resolution 19/2010 dated April 16, 2010, issued  by 
the  
Conselho de Ministros
 defining ELECTRA’s institutional restructuring 
program including a roadmap for its implementation confirming the creation and 
registration of the two new subsidiaries; (c) the adoption by ELECTRA’s board 
of directors of a set of measures to improve commercial and operational 
performance (billing, use of fuel oil and transmission losses) as evidenced by 
item 3 of the Act Nr 19/2010; (d) the debt restructuring plan issued by 
ELECTRA’s Board of Directors on April 19, 2010,  reflecting: (i)  a time-bound 
action plan to restructure ELECTRA’s arrears with its providers;  and (ii) 
ELECTRA’s initial steps with its creditors inviting them to negotiate the 
rescheduling of the said arrears as evidenced by the letters from ENACOL to the 
Minister of Tourism, Industry and Energy dated August 4, 2010, and to General 
Director for Treasury at the Ministry of Finance.  
9. 
Caused TACV to adopt measures to improve its operational, financial and 
commercial performance, as evidenced by: (a) the submission of TACV’s annual 
balances for 2007, 2008 and 2009 (including audited balances for 2007); (b) the 
letter dated October 12, 2010, issued by TACV’s Board of Directors confirming 
Page  8
-7- 
 
that arrears with its domestic and internal suppliers have been cleared; (c) the 
debt rescheduling agreement signed between ASA and TACV providing  that 
arrears among both entities have been rescheduled dated November 30, 2009; (d) 
the letter dated October 28, 2010, issued by the board of directors of TACV 
reflecting that the accounting system has been acquired, as evidenced by the 
signed contract between TACV and the provider for such system dated October 
8, 2010; and (e) adoption of a set of human resources related measures dealing 
with rationalization of staff, suspension of several costly employee benefits, 
including free airfare allowances for family members, as evidenced by the 
Resolutio
n
(Ordem de Servico
)
Nr 64 of August, 20, 2010, issued by TACV’s 
Board of Directors;  and (f) adoption of a new sales and distribution policy to 
increase revenues as evidenced by the Resolutio
n
(Ordem de Serviço
)
Nr 13 of 
February 10, 2009, issued by the Board of Directors of TACV.  
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General
.
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts
.
The Financing is allocated in a single 
withdrawal tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the 
Financing.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out 
in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Withdrawal Tranche 
6,400,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
6,400,000 
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions
 
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the 
Association is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient; 
and (b) with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework. 
 
D. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts
.
Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree:   
Page  9
-8- 
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into a dedicated account designated by the Recipient and 
acceptable to the Association; and 
 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an  amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled. 
 
F. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
have the dedicated account referred to under Section D.1 above audited 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four (4) months  
after the date of the Association’s request for 
such audit, a certified copy of the report of  
such 
audit, 
of 
such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, and 
make such report publicly available in a timely fashion and in a manner 
acceptable to  
the Association; and  
 
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and their audit as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
G. Closing 
Date
.
The Closing Date is June 30, 2011. 
 
H. Access 
to 
Information
.
The Association may disclose the Legal Agreements 
and any information related to the Legal Agreements in accordance with its 
policy on access to information, in effect at the time of such disclosure. 
 
Page  10
-9- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)*
 
On each June 15 and December 15: 
 
commencing June 15, 2021, to and including 
December  15, 2030 
1.25% 
commencing June 15, 2031, to and including 
December 15, 2045 
2.5% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  11
-10- 
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Activity Plan” means DGPCP’s, as defined here below, activities programmed 
for 2010. 
 
2. 
“ADEI” means the Recipient’s business development and innovation agency 
established further to Resolution Nr. 13/2009 dated May 18, 2009, under the 
Ministry of Economy, Growth and Competitiveness.  
 
3. 
“ASA” means the Recipient’s state airport administration established on 
February 17, 1984, as amended to become a corporation on June 2001. 
 
4. “
Banco do Cabo Verde
”
means the Recipient’s Central Bank. 
 
5. “
Boletim Oficial
”
means the Recipient’s Official Gazette. 
 
6. “
Conselho de Ministros
”
means the Recipient’s Council of Ministers. 
 
7. 
“COSiSA" means the Recipient’s committee for the national M&E system. 
 
8. 
“DGPCP” means the Recipient’s general directorate of patrimony and public 
procurement within the Ministry of Finance. 
 
9. 
“DNP” means the Recipient’s national directorate for planning. 
 
10. 
“DSCP” means the Recipient’s directorate of public procurement services under 
the DGPCP. 
 
11. 
“ELECTRA” means “
Empresa de Electricidad e Agua
”, the Recipient’s entity 
for electricity and water established further to decree-law Nr, 37/82 dated April 
17, 1982. 
 
12. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a) 
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
Page  12
-11- 
 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525  
Radioactive 
and 
associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and 
watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
Page  13
-12- 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur.” 
 
13. “ENACOL”or 
“
Empresa Nacional de Combustivel
”
means the national 
corporation of fuel established under the laws of the Recipient. 
14. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 31, 2010, with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
15. 
“M&E” means monitoring and evaluation. 
16. 
“NoSI” means the Recipient’s operational nucleus for information society within 
the Recipient’s Office of the Prime Minister. 
17. 
“INE” means the Recipient’s national institute of statistics established further to 
decree Nr. 49/96 dated
 
December 23, 1996. 
18. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the letter dated November 5, 2010, from the Recipient to the 
Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
19. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
20. 
“TACV” means “
Transporte Aereo do Cabo Verde
”, the Recipient’s national 
airline established in 1958 having become a public was designated as the national 
carrier and became a public company in 1983. 
21. “
Tribunal de Contas
”
means the Recipient’s court of auditors. 
22. 
“UCRE” means the Recipient’s unit for coordination and state reform within the 
Ministry of State Reform.  
 
Page  14
-13- 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of the proceeds of
 
the 
Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or the Bank (“Preparation 
Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Financing Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to repay 
the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such 
withdrawal from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid 
charges, if any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay the 
amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall cancel 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
Page  15
-14- 
 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
(d) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8(c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” and 
its definition is modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05 
 
