Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.:  AB5935 
Operation Name 
CAPE VERDE: SIXTH POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT 
CREDIT (PRSC VI) 
 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (50%); General energy sector 
(20%); Banking (10%); Power (10%); Sub-national Government 
Administration (10%). 
 
Project ID 
P121812 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION 
Date PID Prepared 
August 26, 2010 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
October 25, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
November 30, 2010 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Desp
ite a robust and effective policy response the expansion of Cape Verde’s economy was 
substantially slowed by the global financial crisis.  After enjoying a highly impressive average annual 
GDP growth rate of more than 7 percent from 2003-2007 GDP growth slipped but remained strong at 
5.6 percent in 2008 and to 3 percent in 2009.  The government moved swiftly to address declining global 
demand for Cape Verdean exports and the contraction of international credit markets through a 
countercyclical fiscal impulse driven by a combination of tax cuts and increased public investment, 
which avoided a deeper slump in domestic economic activity.  This strong fiscal impulse and the 
temporary rise in global demand led to a recovery in economic growth rates at the end of 2009 and the 
first quarter of 2010.   
Cape Verde’s graduation to Middle-Income Country (MIC) status poses several challenges for national 
development policy. The first and most relevant to this operation is to sustain the high economic growth 
rates that have allowed Cape Verde to reach this status. In the context of deteriorating external 
conditions the performance of Cape Verde’s public sector is a key factor for sustaining its growth rate 
and preserving macroeconomic stability.  Likewise, the improvement of national economic 
competitiveness represents a prerequisite to attract the external savings required to finance much-needed 
investments despite contracting global credit markets and increasing financing costs. While the country 
recent growth performance has been impressive, infrastructure bottlenecks had became a binding 
constraint to sustaining or increasing growth rates even before the global financial crisis. The 
enhancement of economic infrastructure is a prerequisite for the resumption of the high growth trend 
experienced by the country in the pre-global crisis period.      
The proposed PRSC VI will support the government’s efforts to maintain its countercyclical fiscal 
stance while removing binding constraints on future growth and development through continued public 
Page  2
investment in power generation and transportation, particularly in air travel infrastructure vital to the 
tourism industry. The budget support it provides will help to secure the gains in public health and 
education that were focus of PRSCs I though IV by obviating the need for budget cuts in social services 
and by enabling the government to continue its course of investment in critical infrastructure and 
complement them in critical areas as energy and transport.   
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The objective of this operation is to support the policy reform and institutional development necessary to 
guarantee sustained economic growth. These reforms cover a range of policy areas, from enhancements 
in the efficiency of government operations, to improvements in the country’s economic competitiveness 
and the easing of infrastructure constraints in key sectors. The enhancement in government operations 
component includes preserving macroeconomic stability, promoting the continuity of the domestic 
reform agenda for public finance management and the public procurement system, the rationalization of 
the government’s administrative structure and the introduction of improved statistical and M&E tools in 
government programs. Improvements competitiveness encompasses the consolidation of Cape Verde’s 
accession to the World Trade Organization and the completion of associated reforms, strengthening and 
rationalizing financial sector regulation to bolster the stability of the financial system, and measures to 
improve the business climate and foster greater private sector development. The easing of infrastructure 
bottlenecks includes support to the ongoing reform of public utilities management 
The proposed operation of US$10 million is the second in a series of three one-year operations (PRSC V 
to VII) to support the implementation of the government’s GPRSP II. In accordance with the changing 
government priorities reflected by the GPRSP II, the new PRSC (V to VII) series marks a shift in the 
Bank’s support from the health and education sectors towards a greater focus on the economic growth 
and competitiveness agenda. Accordingly, the proposed PRSC VI, while supporting the continuity of the 
good governance and human capital enhancement agenda, concentrates on the competitiveness and 
infrastructure pillars of the GPRSP II.  
3. Preliminary 
description 
The proposed Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC VI) is the second in a series of three one-year 
operations designed to support the implementation of the government’s Growth and Poverty Reduction 
Strategy, as presented in the Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper II (GPRSP-II).  The 
Government of Cape Verde (GOCV) has made considerable progress in achieving its reform objectives 
under both the current and previous PRSC series and has either completed or is nearing completion of 
all PRSC benchmarks.  The proposed operation will cover five policy areas: (i) good governance; (ii) 
human capital enhancement; (iii) competitiveness; (iv) infrastructure; and (v) social cohesion.  Good 
governance includes fiscal policy, public financial management, procurement, state modernization, and 
statistical development and monitoring and evaluation (M&E) capacity. Human capital enhancement 
focuses on vocational training, matching workforce skills to employer demand. Competitiveness 
encompasses trade openness, tax policy and business climate improvements. Infrastructure includes 
capacity and efficiency improvements in public utilities and service providers, particularly in the energy 
and transportation sectors. Social cohesion consists of the strengthening of the precision and impact of 
government programs aimed at reducing poverty and income inequality. 
4. Environment Aspects 
The specific actions supported under the proposed PRSC VI are not likely to have significant positive or 
negative effects on the country's environment, forests, fisheries or other natural resources.  The first 
policy area of this operation, governance, was already covered in Cape Verde PRSC IV and V; IDA 
Page  3
determined that PRSC-supported actions in this area were not expected to have a meaningful effect on 
Cape Verde’s environment due to their primarily administrative nature (public finance management, 
civil service reform and decentralization, monitoring and evaluation systems, improved health care and 
social protection). Additionally, the reforms related to competitiveness and growth—the second policy 
area supported by this operation—are not expected to have a negative effect on the environment.  
The environmental aspects of Cape Verde’s economic development and policy reform agenda have been 
included in the consolidated matrix of the Budget Support Group. The BSG’s dialogue on environmental 
issues has been summarized in a sector-specific environmental policy matrix agreed upon with the 
government.  This matrix identifies critical prior actions and a set of results indicators, which are 
currently being monitored.  
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
10 
Total 10 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact:  
Fernando Blanco 
Title:        
Senior Economist, AFTP4 
Tel:          
(202) 458-8075 
Fax:          
(202) 473-8136 
Email:      
fblanco@worldbank.org 
 
