 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14765

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                             Date Posted: 06/26/2015

               Country: Cabo Verde
                        Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                      Yes    No
                            How many operations were planned for the                                3
                           series?
                            How many were approved ?                                                3
              Series ID: S122669
        First Project ID : P122669                                               Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Cv-dpl 3-prsc Vii           Project Costs (US$M):                       12                   12

 L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                        12                   12
      Sector Board:       Economic Policy           Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                  06/26/2012
                                                               Closing Date:            12/31/2012           12/31/2012
          Sector(s):     Central  government   administration (40%); General industry and trade  sector (30%);
                         Vocational training (10%); Transmission and Distribution of Electricity (10%); Aviation (10%)
         Theme(s):       Regulation and competition policy (30%); Public expenditure; financial management and
                         procurement (30%); Infrastructure services for private sector development (20%); Economic
                         statistics; modeling and forecasting (10%); Education for the knowledge economy (10%)
    Second Project ID :P121812                                                    Appraisal                Actual
        Project Name:    Cape   Verde  - Dpl        Project Costs  (US$M):                        10                 10
                         1/prsc Vi
 L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                         10                 10
     Sector Board:       Economic Policy              Cofinancing (US$M):
                                                      Board Approval Date :                                  12/16/2010
           Cofinancers:                                        Closing Date:            06/30/2011           06/30/2011
          Sector(s):     Central government administration (62%), General energy sector (13%), Banking (13%),
                         General industry and trade sector (8%), Housing finance (4%)
         Theme(s):       Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (37%), Regulation and
                         competition policy (25%), Managing for development results (13%), Administrative and civil
                         service reform (13%), Debt management and fiscal sustainability (12%)
       Third Project ID :P113306                                                  Appraisal                Actual
        Project Name:    Cape   Verde  - Dpl        Project Costs (US$M):                         15                 15
                         1/prsc V
 L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                         15                 15
     Sector Board:       Financial and Private        Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Sector Development
                                                      Board Approval Date :                                  12/17/2009
           Cofinancers:                                        Closing Date:            06/30/2010           06/30/2010
          Sector(s):     Central government administration (50%), General industry and trade sector (20%), General
                         energy sector (10%), Sub-national government administration (10%), Banking (10%)
         Theme(s):       Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (29%), Regulation and
                         competition policy (29%), Macroeconomic management (14%), Economic statistics,
                         modeling and forecasting (14%), Other Private Sector Development (14%)
Evaluator:               Panel Reviewer:          ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Clay Wescott              Mauricio Carrizosa       Lourdes N. Pagaran          IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The Program Development Objectives were stated as follows:

    Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit V (PRSC V): ...to support policies and institutions aimed at developing a
    dynamic private sector to be the engine of sustainable growth and poverty reduction, reinforcing the competitive
    advantage of Cape Verde’s Service Sector”. This will be done by focusing on two main policy areas: good
    governance and competitiveness and growth. Good governance is interpreted broadly and includes the following
    issues: fiscal policy, public financial management, procurement, M&E, statistics and state modernization.
    Competitiveness constitutes the main multi-sector anchor for the proposed operation and includes human capital,
    trade, tourism, financial services, tax, land management and energy issues (Program Document [PD], p. i, 15).

    PRSC VI: ...to support the policy reforms and institutional development necessary to foster sustained economic
    growth. The operation aims to: (i) preserve macroeconomic stability and improve government service delivery
    through the implementation of a reform agenda for public finance management, procurement, government
    structure and M&E; (ii) support human capital through the institutional upgrading of the vocational training
    system; (iii) improve competitiveness by strengthening and rationalizing financial sector regulation and ameliorate
    the business climate; and (iv) ease bottlenecks to growth through reforms in public utilities management. (PD, p.
    viii, 19).

    PRSC VII: ...(i) to reinforce the effectiveness, transparency and accountability of public sector operations through
    the continuity of the government’s public sector reform agenda; (ii) improve the qualifications of the labor
    force through the institutional upgrading of the vocational training system; (iii) to improve the business climate
    through the rationalization of the fiscal incentive system and the streamlining of firm closing procedures; and (iv)
    to enhance the performance of the public energy utility and national air carrier (PD, p. vii, 22).

    The objectives are not stated in the Financing Agreements. Based on the above, this review will consider four
    sub-objectives: improved governance, improved qualifications of the labor force through the institutional
    upgrading of the vocational training system, improved competitiveness and investment climate, and enhanced
    performance of the public energy utility and national air carrier. Maintaining macroeconomic stability will also be
    assessed as the underlying condition for the series to proceed.


 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    The series addressed four policy areas:

         Good governance: issues related to fiscal policy, public financial management, procurement, state
          modernization, and statistical development, monitoring and evaluation (M&E) capacity, decentralization and
          civil service reform. In addition, a trigger was proposed for PRSC VII supporting the social inclusion pillar in
          the Government's strategy (implementing a targeted safety net). This was later dropped, but a results
          indicator was retained in this area.
         Human capital enhancement: vocational training, matching workforce skills to employer demand.
         Competitiveness and investment climate: trade openness, tax policy, the financial sector, reduction in
          regulatory burden, land management and other business climate improvements.
         Infrastructure: capacity and efficiency improvements in public utilities in energy and transportation (air)
          sectors.
          (PDs: PRSC V, pp. 18 - 28; PRSC VI, pp. 21 - 31; PRSC VII, pp. 22-35)

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

    IDA financing consisted of three credits for SDR 9.5 million (US$15m: PRSC V), SDR 6.4 million (US$10 million:
    PRSC VI) and SDR 7.9 million (US$12 million: PRSC VII). PRSC VII was increased from US$10m to US$12m to
    help the country cope with unexpectedly weak aid and foreign direct investment (FDI) flows, and cost of
   maintaining the pegged exchange rate, during the global financial crisis. Effectiveness was 01/26/2010 for PRSC
   V, 12/22/2010 for PRSC VI, and 07/24/2012 for PRSC VII. Each operation was fully disbursed upon
   effectiveness. PRSC VII was originally planned for 2011, but was delayed until 2012 because of concerns over
   the macroeconomic framework. There were no extensions, revisions, or other delays. There was no co-financing,
   but there was complementary support from other development partners mentioned below.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Substantial. The series’ objectives were substantially relevant at appraisal and at evaluation. The objectives are
   aligned with the government's Second Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (GPRSP II), introduced in
   May 2008, with its focus on government reform, human resources, economic competitiveness, infrastructure and
   social cohesion as key reforms needed to guide the country's transition following its graduation from
   least-developed country status in 2007. The objectives were also in line with the Bank's 2009 Country
   Partnership Strategy for Cape Verde, which is aligned with GPRSP II. The objectives continue to be aligned with
   the Country Partnership Strategy adopted in 2014 and its two pillars: (a) enhancing macro-fiscal stability, setting
   the foundations for renewed growth; and (b) improving competitiveness and private sector development. When
   the series was designed and approved in 2009, a quick recovery was expected from the global financial and
   economic crisis. This did not happen, with serious consequences on Cape Verde's tourism and other sectors
   from the sustained economic downturn in Europe. As the situation worsened, the importance of the policy
   initiatives supported by the series that supported, inter alia, increased growth and reduction in state owned
   enterprise (SOE) losses, took on greater importance. In addition, the fiscal space added by the series allowed
   government to continue financing essential services and investment despite weakened economic performance.


b. Relevance of Design:

   Substantial. There is a clear statement of objectives, particularly in PRSC VI and VII, linked to prior actions that
   have institutional depth, add value, and are measurable. The causal chain between prior actions supported and
   outcomes is clear and convincing, and improved in PRSC VII.

   For example, PRSC V and VI prior actions supported partial reductions of public arrears. The government built on
   and improved this performance throughout the series, thus contributing to the improved governance objective. In
   another example, the PRSCs supported various business climate enhancements, including adjustment of
   procedures and rules to be aligned with World Trade Organization agreements, and adoption of new laws and
   codes. The government built on this with other business enhancing measures linked to the economic
   competitiveness objective.

   The key exogenous factor, the global financial and economic crisis, was identified and addressed. Though its
   duration was underestimated in the initial design, the series allowed a meaningful policy interaction to proceed
   with the government, enabling adjustments to take into account capacity constraints, and the worsening
   economic climate.

   The initial analysis found that the macroeconomic framework was adequate to allow budget support (PD, PRSC
   V, pp. 4-6), and to mitigate the effects of the global economic crisis, including fiscal space, international reserves,
   and reform targets that would reduce fiscal risks. However, economic growth projections were overoptimistic: 5.5
   percent and 7 percent in 2011 and 2012, compared to actual performance of 4 percent and 1 percent
   respectively. Subsequent analyses in the following operations concluded that an adequate framework was being
   maintained. However, the third operation was delayed due to high deficits and a weaker than planned economic
   environment. A detailed assessment of the macroeconomic framework eventually concluded that the operation
   could proceed.




4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Efficacy of the four sub-objectives was as follows:

   a.) Improved Governance . Substantial. The series supported adoption of a new statistical law, the regulations of
a new procurement law, medium-term debt strategy, reduction in arrears, and improvements in auditing,
municipal information system, civil service management and M&E. Outcome targets were met in eliminating
arrears (down from 15% of the original stock in baseline year 2009), number of years between budget execution
and completion of audits (reduced from three to two years), number of years to submit the General Accounts of
the State to the Court of Accounts (reduced from three to less than one year), and complete project and program
coverage by M&E systems (increased from 80% in 2010). Targets were also met in number of ministries
restructured (15, up from 5), and number of municipalities included in the Municipal Information System (22, up
from 15). Procurement targets were also achieved in staff trained (401, up from 0), number of staff subject to prior
review (9, up from 0) and number of audits prepared (greater than 10, up from zero. There were related
improvements supported by the policy dialog of the series, including a Medium Term Expenditure Framework,
Medium Term Fiscal Framework. A report on progress of the social cohesion pillar of the GPRSP II was
published, meeting a target. Shortcomings included lack of progress on eliminating non-complying sole source
contracts, approval of new career system, research functions transferred to university, number of municipalities,
embassies and institutes audited, and weakness in national accounts statistics. Overall, the Country Policy and
Institutional Assessment public sector management and institutions’ cluster average modestly increased from 4.0
(out of 6) in 2009 to 4.1 in 2013, and it is reasonable to conclude that the actions supported by the series
contributed to this good performance in the face of severe exogenous financial and economic challenges.

b.) Improved qualifications of the labor force through the institutional upgrading of the vocational training
system. Modest. The series supported implementation of the Technical Vocational Education and Training
(TVET) Action Plan. A result was that the target of accreditation of 22 training institutions was met (up from zero).
However the number of students trained was 1500, short of the target of 6000, mainly due to planned donor
funding being insufficient. The target on percentage of the Training Support Fund used for TVET delivery was not
rated.

c.) Improved competitiveness and investment climate . Substantial. The series supported reduction in corporate
tax rates and other tax reforms, adjustment of procedures and rules to be aligned with World Trade Organization
agreements, reduced exposure to offshore banking, adoption/submission of bankruptcy laws, opening of the
one-stop shop to streamline business registration, the adoption of a Cadaster Law, and adoption of new
investment code and intellectual property law. Targets achieved included the number of days to open a business
(reduced from 24 to 11, meeting the target of less than 24), the cost of property registration (Doing Business
indicator reduced from 7.6 to 3.7, meeting the target of less than 4), reduced marginal tax rates for businesses
(25%, down from 30% in 2008), and new tax incentive system adopted. Progress was slower than expected in
preparation of regional and municipal plans, which were expected to build on the Cadaster Law. Two indicators
on issues of closing a business were not rated. The target on increasing trade openness as a percent of gross
domestic product (GDP) was met (up from 103.5% of GDP to 109.7% of GDP), despite low growth in 2012.
Likewise, the target on increasing net FDI flows as a percent of GDP was greatly exceeded in 2012 (36 percent
of GDP vs 25 percent), but this could have been a one off event where investors wanted to benefit from tax
incentives that changed in January 2013, There are also problems and limitations in data sources and
compilation techniques with this measure. Moving to the financial sector, the output target was exceeded for the
weighted average (by assets) capital adequacy ratio (up from 10.7% to 13.4%). A PRSC VI action only
supported the preparation of a draft banking law that hasn't yet been approved by the Parliament; thus the result
can't be attributed to the law. However, the adoption and implementation of the Rehabilitation of Firms and
Bankruptcy Law, and the overall improvement in the business climate, might have been motivating factors.

Overall, the country improved its Doing Business ranking from 142 in 2010 to 121 in 2013, and the actions
supported by the operation plausibly contributed to this improved performance. Over the past five years,
economic freedom has increased, with improvements in six of the 10 areas, including investment freedom, fiscal
freedom, and the protection of property rights. This has improved the country's ranking to third out of 46 African
countries rated.(2015 Index of Economic Freedom, Heritage Foundation)

d.) Enhanced performance of the public energy utility and national air carrier . Modest. The series supported
improvements in the organizational structure and management of the energy utility ELECTRA, and in the air
carrier TACV, including tariff reform, and improvements in accounting and audit. ELECTRA exceeded targets for
increasing power generation capacity (116 megawatts, up from 90), and renewable energy (30%, up from 3%,
exceeding the target of 18%). The target on reducing losses was not met, and the debt service coverage indicator
was not rated. However, in 2013 ELECTRA adopted new tariff and regulatory procedures that combined with
other measures helped to increase its first quarter revenue by 18 percent. There was also a reduction in
blackouts by more than 50 percent over the previous year. Series' actions are plausibly linked to these
improvements. The air carrier achieved its target of unit revenue (Escudos 783m, up from 720m and exceeding
the target of 779m), but ended the series with increased operating costs, rather than the sharp cost reduction
targeted.
   The results achieved under the four sub-objectives can be plausibly attributed to support from the series, along
   with complementary support to sub-objectives a and c from other partners in the Budget Support Group, including
   the African Development Bank, Spain, Luxembourg, Portugal and the European Union. Finally, Cape Verde
   maintained an adequate macroeconomic framework broadly throughout the series, except for the challenges in
   2011 noted above, and continued to do so after the series was completed. Indeed, the IMF notes that if
   government had not pursued its policy of public investment, and instead followed the IMF's recommendation for
   pursuing fiscal consolidation, it might have forced the country into recession in 2013 (cf. PD, PRSC VIII, 2014
   and IMF Article IV staff report, 2014).




5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

    The operation had objectives substantially relevant to guide its transition following its graduation from
   least-developed country status. The design was also substantially relevant, providing a clear statement of
   objectives, linked to prior actions that have institutional depth, add value, and are measurable. There was
   substantial achievement in improved governance and competitiveness, with top rankings in the African region in
   various surveys. However, there were some difficulties in measuring and attributing achievements to the series.
   There was only modest progress on human capital enhancement and state owned enterprise reform, with some
   targets not achieved or not rated.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   Macroeconomic risks include dependence on the Eurozone with its uncertain economic and political future,
   winding down of concessional donor support, a high public debt and fiscal deficit, and estimated growth of only
   0.5 percent in 2013. This may have already weakened one of the series indicators, FDI flows, though there are
   problems with data sources on this. High levels of unemployment could weaken political commitment to
   deepening business climate and SOE reforms. In the recently approved PRSC VIII, TVET training continues to
   be supported, with the new target of 5000 by 2016. If achieved, this would help address one of the causes of
   unemployment. Other risk mitigating factors include political commitment and institutional quality, with a Country
   Policy and Institutional Assessment rating at the highest level of African IDA borrowers. PRSC VIII launched a
   new series in 2014 providing continuing support to the governance and competitiveness pillars of the GPRSP II
   that will help to sustain and deepen the achievements.


  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

     The design built on lessons learned from previous PRSC operations: the value of budget support in
    harmonizing aid and reducing transaction costs, and complementary capacity building and analytical work.
    The depth of the analytical work drawn on is particularly impressive (ICR, Annex 9). The analysis of risks and
    risk mitigation is well done, covering, for example in PRSC VI (PD, pp. 42-3): risks of high deficits, elections,
    implementation capacity, and natural hazards. A shortcoming was some weaknesses in M&E detailed below
    in Section 10.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:
   Supervision was through biannual missions of the Budget Support Group, which facilitated policy dialog,
   monitoring progress, and design and improvement of subsequent operations, including an improvement in the
   quality of the results matrix in PRSC VII (ICR, para 67). The Budget Support Group was led by the World
   Bank. A shortcoming was that only one ISR (PRSC VI) was prepared for the series because of the lack of
   credible data.


  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


   Under the leadership of the Ministry of Finance, the government adopted the GPRSP II that was firmly
   grounded on previous programs and strategies, and provided the conceptual basis for the policy and
   institutional actions supported by the series. Strong commitment was demonstrated in taking on sensitive
   political challenges such as SOE reform. Shortcomings in the macroeconomic framework caused a delay in
   PRSC VII. Weaknesses including the high fiscal deficit and national debt were noted in the 2014 IMF Article
   IV Staff Report, but were not considered serious enough to delay approval of PRSC VIII. As pointed out
   above in Section 4, the IMF admits that the country might have fallen into recession in 2013 if it had not
   pursued the fiscal stimulus that it did.



  Government Performance Rating :                             Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   Implementing authorities were broadly successful in achieving targeted results. However weaknesses in
   statistical capacity (Instituto Nacional de Estatisticas) led to overoptimistic GDP growth projections being
   used for the period of the series, until they were corrected in 2012. In addition, challenges with record keeping
   (TACV and ELECTRA) hindered effective monitoring.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The performance matrix was designed and implemented by the Ministry of Finance, with involvement of all
   ministries supporting GPRSP II objectives. Most of the indicators were clear, measurable, and linked with the
   objectives. Initially there were some indicators without baselines, or without clear units; the quality of indicators
   improved in subsequent operations. One indicator simply repeated a prior action (reduction in business taxes).
   Some indicators were not aligned with the indicators of the GPRSP II, for example the indicators covering TACV,
   which was not being supported by other donors. In such cases, data had to be supplied directly by the authority
   concerned.


b. M&E Implementation:
    By the end of the series, most indicators had baselines, and were rated. There were problems with weak
    statistical capacity, and record keeping challenges at TACV and ELECTRA.


c. M&E Utilization:

    The improvement in indicator quality in the later operations indicates that the system was being used. An ISR
    prepared mid-way through PRSC VI by a joint mission comprising the Bank and other budget support donors
    usefully presents key issues and indicator performance.

  M&E Quality Rating: Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

    Not relevant for program loans.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    The ICR does not report on fiduciary issues. The Bank of Cape Verde has adopted international Financial
    Reporting Standards, developed reserves-management procedures, introduced an internal audit function, and a
    process for rotating external auditors (PD, PRSC VIII, p. 31). These seem to have addressed the fiduciary
    challenges indicated in PD, PRSC VII, p. 35.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    As mentioned in Section 4, there was a sharp, unexpected increase in FDI in 2013, perhaps because investors
    wanted to benefit from tax incentives that changed in January 2013. Yet even after the increase, FDI was still
    significantly lower than prior to the onset of the global financial crisis in 2008.


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review               Reason for
                                                                                   Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.
13. Lessons:

    Lessons in the ICR include the importance of quality indicators, robust M&E, and donor harmonization, which
    are all supported. In addition, during periods of exogenous, economic and financial crisis, budget support can
    be a useful tool to protect fiscal space, while focusing government attention on key reforms. Supported actions
    and policy dialog is most likely to be effective when the borrower governments already have strong political
    and institutional commitment to follow through on sensitive measures.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR provides mainly good quality evidence and concise analysis consistent with Bank guidelines, and
    focusing on results achieved in regard to the series objectives. A particular strength is that it is careful to separate
    results attributable to the operation, from results that seem to have had more wide-ranging causes. Lessons are
    based on evidence and analysis.

a.Quality of ICR Rating :
