Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCLAL USIE ONLY
Report No. 13649
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1506-SU)
OCTOBER 31, 1994
Agriculture and Environment Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



SUDAN
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1506-SU)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Sudanese Pound (LS) =  100 piastre
US$1.00 (at appraisal) =  LS 1.87
US$1.00 (at closure) =  LS302.00
US$1.00 (at appraisal) =  SDR1.06
US$1.00 (at closure) =  SDR1.37
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Feddan (fd) = 0.42 hectare (ha)
Kilowatt (kW) = 1.36 horsepower (hp)
Megawatt (MW) = 1,000 kilowatt (kW)
ABBREVIATIONS/ACRONYMS
AF                      Arab Fund for Development
ARC                     Agriculture Research Corporation
CP                      FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
DCA                     Development Credit Agreement
ERR                     Economic Rate of Return
GOS                     Government of Sudan
HF                      High Frequency
IDA                     International Development Association
KFW                     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MATS                    Management Assistance and Training Support
MOAI                    Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
MOFEP                   Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MOI                     Ministry of Industry
NCP                     New Core Programme
O&M                     Operation and Maintenance
PCR                     Project Completion Report
RNCR                    Revised New Core Programme
SAR                     Staff Appraisal Report
SC                      Sugar Corporation
SF                      Saudi Fund for Development
SPIC                    Sugar Project Implementation Cell
SRP                     Sugar Rehabilitation Project
SSPC                    Sudan Sugar Production Company
STC                     Sennar Training Centre
TA                      Technical Assistance
tc                      Tons of Cane
ts                      Tons of Sugar
UNIDO                   United Nations Industrial Development Organization
FISCAL YEAR
GOS July I - June 30
IDA July I - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Direotor-Genaral
Operation Evauaton
October 31, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO TE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDE
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Sudan
Sugar Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1506-SU1
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Sudan-Sugar Rehabilitation Project prepared
by the Africa Regional Office. The Borrower did not provide Part H.
The project addressed a real need, but the report highlights numerous funding and
implementation difficulties. Appraisal assumptions on potential yield increases and price reforms did not
materialize, and the project was twice restructured when two co-financiers canceled their funding.
Although implementation was extended by three years, several components were only partially or
minimally achieved.
Total sugar production barely increased, despite an expansion in cane areas, because of
continuing low yields. Irrigation and agricultural equipment was procured, but the rehabilitation of four
factories remained incomplete and labor shortages continued. Producer prices, although increased,
remained below import parity and the financial situation of the sugar companies hardly improved.
Institutional strengthening and training were well below targets.
The PCR recalculates the economic rate of return at 6 to 12 percent, compared to the
appraisal estimate of 40 percent. Since the rate of return is likely to be at the bottom end of this range
and major project objectives were not met, the project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory, sustainability
as unlikely, and institutional development as modest.
The PCR is satisfactory. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1506-SU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  .............................................. i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                     ..    ii
PARTI ..
1. Project Identity                               .1
2. Background and Sector Context ...............................  1
3. Project Objectives and Description  ............................ 2
4. Project Design and Organization .............................. 4
5. Project Implementation  ................................... 4
6. Project Results and Impact ................................. 9
7. Sustainability .........................................  12
8. Bank Performance ......................................  13
9. Borrower Performance ...................................  13
10. Project Relationships ...... ...........              ...................  13
11. Consulting Services ..................................... 13
12. Project Documentation and Data  ...........................  14
13. Lessons Learnt    ..............                   ..............  14
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....  15
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
MAP: IBRD 17953






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1506-SU)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Sugar Rehabilitation Project
(SRP) in Sudan, for which IDA Credit 1506-SU in the amount of SDR56.4 million was
signed on 28 August 1984. The project was co-financed by the Arab Fund for Development
(AF) in the amount of US$59.0 million; the Saudi Fund for Development (SF) in the amount
of US$38.5 million; and Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW) in the amount of US$22.9
million. The Credit was extended thrice involving a period of 3 years to 31 December 1993.
The Arab and Saudi funding was suspended in 1991 following the Gulf Crisis. SDR50.2
million of the IDA Credit was disbursed while only US$48.4 million of the Arab Fund and
US$14.3 million of the Saudi Fund were utilized. The KFW funds were fully disbursed.
Parts I and III of this PCR were prepared by the staff of the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Programme (CP) for the Agriculture and Environment Division, East Africa
Department of the World Bank. The report is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report; the Credit and Loan Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the
Borrower and the Lenders; and information gathered by the CP mission which visited Sudan
in February 1994.
i






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1506-SU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objective
The objective of the project was to rehabilitate four public sugar estates and the
associated factories in order to raise sugarcane yields and the total quantity of sugar
produced. It also aimed at supporting policy reform and strengthening the institutional
management of the sugar industry as a whole.
Project Implementation
Inspite of initial start-up delays, and later funding constraints, the project was
generally satisfactorily implemented. The project experienced delays in start-up largely
because of Government's inability to activate co-financing from the Arab Fund for
Development (AF) and the Saudi Fund for Development (SF) who withdrew their support
to the project, soon after the Credit's approval by the IDA Board. It was therefore decided
to scale back the project and implement only the "core" elements using the available funding
from IDA and Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW). However, just before commencement
of project implementation, GOS resolved the outstanding issues with AF and SF, who then
restored their support. In the meanwhile, about 18 months of project implementation time
had been lost. The delayed initiation and the under-performance in the early years resulted
in the project being extended three times, involving a period of 3 years.
Project implementation was further complicated by a deteriorating macro-economic
environment, characterized at one point or another, by foreign exchange shortages, labour
unrest, energy shortages and declining foreign aid flows. The project therefore made no
perceptible impact on increasing sugar production in the first 4 years of implementation;
actual production in fact declined below pre-project levels. In order to improve the situation,
in February 1990, IDA in consultation with GOS and the other co-financiers, restructured
the project into a 2 year programme called the New Core Programme (NCP). Investments
were prioritized with the objective of achieving improved sugar production within a short
period. The implementation of NCP was however undermined since, following the Gulf
Crisis of early 1990, the AF and SF cancelled their funding to the project thus forcing NCP
to be re-structured by IDA in March/April 1991 into a Revised New Core Programme
(RNCP). Items of critical importance intended for SF/AF funding were thereafter re-assigned
to IDA, and less important ones were down-sized or dropped.
ii



Actual project costs are estimated to be around US$157 million or 86% of the
appraisal estimate. About SDR6.3 million of the IDA Credit remained undisbursed. The
KFW funds were fully disbursed while, as a result of the suspensions, only 37% of the Saudi
funds and 82% of the Arab funds were utilized.
Project Results
Although the project effectively rehabilitated the irrigation system and the inventory
of agricultural equipment and spare parts, the sugar factories were only partially rehabilitated
and SRP's impact on infrastructure development and institutional strengthening was limited,
largely because of protracted start-up delays, political sensitivity to full liberalization of sugar
prices, and funding constraints which resulted from the suspension of AF and SF financing.
In the face of these detractors, the project was unable to achieve all that it set out to do;
overall project performance is thus deemed unsatisfactory. The interventions in agriculture
and irrigation resulted in annual expansion in areas cultivated, reaching a peak of 83,000
feddans in 1991/92 before declining slightly to 82,000 feddans in 1992/93. However the
above expansion did not immediately result in increased sugar production which continued
to decline for the next 3 years into project implementation until the other inputs of the
programme began to take effect. Sugar production was also affected by the low cane yields
(which remained below pre-project levels as well as the SAR expectations, throughout) and
the inability to repair or replace some of the critical factory parts such as boilers. The
project therefore fell far short of its sugar production targets. Annual production peaked at
0.22 million tons in 1991/92 and declined slightly to 0.21 million tons in 1992/93, both of
which were substantially below the SAR target of 0.32 million tons and only slightly better
than the pre-project level of 0. 19 million tons.
The project intended to improve support services through the provision of portable
and desk-top computers. The full benefit from the computers was not felt by the sugar
companies which have continued to maintain their records manually because of lack of
suitable programs. The services rendered by the consultants under the management and
training support (MATS) programme had mixed results. On the accounting side, new systems
were developed along with user manuals although very little of this was implemented. On
the technical side, the consultants provided valued assistance in the preparation of
requirements and specifications, and advising on day-to-day operations of the factory and
workshops but again the procedural manuals prepared have hardly been utilized.
The training component was adversely affected, as the programme was heavily scaled
back largely due to lengthy delays in preparing the training programme and disagreements
between GOS and the organization to which the component was contracted for
implementation. As a result, only 353 staff were trained vis-a-vis the SAR target of 3,015
persons. However, those trained were the core categories of staff in senior and middle
management as well as technologists and senior technicians.
Lack of adequate consultation between research staff and the sugar companies to
prioritize research activities resulted in this component imparting little immediate benefit to
the sugar industry. On the policy reform front, particularly the liberalization of the price of
.i.i



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1506-SU)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Sugar Rehabilitation Project
(SRP) in Sudan, for which IDA Credit 1506-SU in the amount of SDR56.4 million was
signed on 28 August 1984. The project was co-financed by the Arab Fund for Development
(AF) in the amount of US$59.0 million; the Saudi Fund for Development (SF) in the amount
of US$38.5 million; and Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW) in the amount of US$22.9
million. The Credit was extended thrice involving a period of 3 years to 31 December 1993.
The Arab and Saudi funding was suspended in 1991 following the Gulf Crisis. SDR50.2
million of the IDA Credit was disbursed while only US$48.4 million of the Arab Fund and
US$14.3 million of the Saudi Fund were utilized. The KFW funds were fully disbursed.
Parts I and III of this PCR were prepared by the staff of the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Programme (CP) for the Agriculture and Environment Division, East Africa
Department of the World Bank. The report is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report; the Credit and Loan Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the
Borrower and the Lenders; and information gathered by the CP mission which visited Sudan
in February 1994.
i






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Cr. 1506-SU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objective
The objective of the project was to rehabilitate four public sugar estates and the
associated factories in order to raise sugarcane yields and the total quantity of sugar
produced. It also aimed at supporting policy reform and strengthening the institutional
management of the sugar industry as a whole.
Project Implementation
Inspite of initial start-up delays, and later funding constraints, the project was
generally satisfactorily implemented. The project experienced delays in start-up largely
because of Government's inability to activate co-financing from the Arab Fund for
Development (AF) and the Saudi Fund for Development (SF) who withdrew their support
to the project, soon after the Credit's approval by the IDA Board. It was therefore decided
to scale back the project and implement only the "core" elements using the available funding
from IDA and Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW). However, just before commencement
of project implementation, GOS resolved the outstanding issues with AF and SF, who then
restored their support. In the meanwhile, about 18 months of project implementation time
had been lost. The delayed initiation and the under-performance in the early years resulted
in the project being extended three times, involving a period of 3 years.
Project implementation was further complicated by a deteriorating macro-economic
environment, characterized at one point or another, by foreign exchange shortages, labour
unrest, energy shortages and declining foreign aid flows. The project therefore made no
perceptible impact on increasing sugar production in the first 4 years of implementation;
actual production in fact declined below pre-project levels. In order to improve the situation,
in February 1990, IDA in consultation with GOS and the other co-financiers, restructured
the project into a 2 year programme called the New Core Programme (NCP). Investments
were prioritized with the objective of achieving improved sugar production within a short
period. The implementation of NCP was however undermined since, following the Gulf
Crisis of early 1990, the AF and SF cancelled their funding to the project thus forcing NCP
to be re-structured by IDA in March/April 1991 into a Revised New Core Programme
(RNCP). Items of critical importance intended for SF/AF funding were thereafter re-assigned
to IDA, and less important ones were down-sized or dropped.
ii



Actual project costs are estimated to be around US$157 million or 86% of the
appraisal estimate. About SDR6.3 million of the IDA Credit remained undisbursed. The
KFW funds were fully disbursed while, as a result of the suspensions, only 37 % of the Saudi
funds and 82% of the Arab funds were utilized.
Project Results
Although the project effectively rehabilitated the irrigation system and the inventory
of agricultural equipment and spare parts, the sugar factories were only partially rehabilitated
and SRP's impact on infrastructure development and institutional strengthening was limited,
largely because of protracted start-up delays, political sensitivity to full liberalization of sugar
prices, and funding constraints which resulted from the suspension of AF and SF financing.
In the face of these detractors, the project was unable to achieve all that it set out to do;
overall project performance is thus deemed unsatisfactory. The interventions in agriculture
and irrigation resulted in annual expansion in areas cultivated, reaching a peak of 83,000
feddans in 1991/92 before declining slightly to 82,000 feddans in 1992/93. However the
above expansion did not immediately result in increased sugar production which continued
to decline for the next 3 years into project implementation until the other inputs of the
programme began to take effect. Sugar production was also affected by the low cane yields
(which remained below pre-project levels as well as the SAR expectations, throughout) and
the inability to repair or replace some of the critical factory parts such as boilers. The
project therefore fell far short of its sugar production targets. Annual production peaked at
0.22 million tons in 1991/92 and declined slightly to 0.21 million tons in 1992/93, both of
which were substantially below the SAR target of 0.32 million tons and only slightly better
than the pre-project level of 0. 19 million tons.
The project intended to improve support services through the provision of portable
and desk-top computers. The full benefit from the computers was not felt by the sugar
companies which have continued to maintain their records manually because of lack of
suitable programs. The services rendered by the consultants under the management and
training support (MATS) programme had mixed results. On the accounting side, new systems
were developed along with user manmals although very little of this was implemented. On
the technical side, the consultants provided valued assistance in the preparation of
requirements and specifications, and advising on day-to-day operations of the factory and
workshops but again the procedural manuals prepared have hardly been utilized.
The training component was adversely affected, as the programme was heavily scaled
back largely due to lengthy delays in preparing the training programme and disagreements
between GOS and the organization to which the component was contracted for
implementation. As a result, only 353 staff were trained vis-a-vis the SAR target of 3,015
persons. However, those trained were the core categories of staff in senior and middle
management as well as technologists and senior technicians.
Lack of adequate consultation between research staff and the sugar companies to
prioritize research activities resulted in this component imparting little immediate benefit to
the sugar industry. On the policy reform front, particularly the liberalization of the price of
iii



sugar, the project had little success. Whereas sugar prices were regularly increased, they
remained well below import parity levels and the sugar companies are being paid very low
prices for their sugar, thus continued dependence on government financing continues.
The quantifiable benefits of the project are estimated to realize an economic rate of
return of 12%. This is substantially below the SAR estimate of 40%. The anticipated project
benefits were too optimistic and did not materialize. Cane area expansion was slower than
expected and the target total area was never reached; at best, average yields were about 75%
of SAR target; and factory capacity utilization remained well below rated levels because of
insufficient cane supplies and the inadequate rehabilitation of the factories which resulted in
high down-time. The actual ERR estimate is based on the assumption that sugar production
will modestly increase by about 15% in total over the next 4 years. However, should the
increase not take place and sugar production stagnates at the present levels, the estimated
ERR would decline to only 6%.
Sustainability
The investments by the project are not sustainable in the absence of adequate foreign
exchange to import the necessary agricultural inputs and factory spares and equipment.
Persistent cane harvesting labour shortages also pose a big problem in the immediate and
long run. On the financial side, there is need to increase profitability of the factories by
offering them a realistic market-clearing price for their product. An increase in cane
production so that factories can operate at or near their rated capacities, is also essential for
augmenting the efficiency of the processing facilities.
Lessons Learnt
The main lessons learned from implementing this project are: (a) to avoid the funding
of various inter-linked components within a project, through several co-financiers; where this
is unavoidable, contingency plans should be in place for multi-donor interventions, to address
problems in the case that some of the anticipated financing does not materialize; (b) realistic
project targets should be established, and the temptation of being overly optimistic about
project impact should be avoided; (c) the need for procurement specifications to give
adequate consideration to local conditions and availability of support services in the recipient
country; (d) research activities should be targeted to the needs of the industry and research
programmes set in consultation with the industry; and (e) policy pre-requisites essential for
project success should be assessed upfront and included as pre-conditions for project
financing.
iv






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(1 506-SU)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name           Sugar Rehabilitation Project
Credit No.             1506-SU
RVP Unit               Eastern Africa
Country                Sudan
Sector                 Agriculture
Sub-sectors            Agro-industry
2. Background and Sector Context
General
2.1        The Sugar Rehabilitation Project (SRP) was identified in February 1982 by a
firm of private consultants commissioned by the Government of Sudan (GOS). Following
the identification study, the firm was then assigned to prepare a detailed project report. A
draft preparation report was presented to GOS in January 1983 and a mission was mounted
by IDA to pre-appraise the project in January/February 1983. The project was appraised in
October 1983 and a Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was issued in April 1984. IDA Credit
negotiations took place in the same month, the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was
signed on 28 August, 1984 and the Credit became effective in August 1985. The Saudi and
Arab Funds for Economic Development (SF and AF) Loan Agreements and the Kreditanstalt
fur Wiederaufbau (KFW) Grant Agreement had been signed in April 1983.
1



Sector Development Context
2.2        The Agriculture Sector plays an important role in the Sudanese economy. At
the time SRP was appraised, the Sector provided for the livelihood of 80% of the population
and contributed about 40% of GDP and 95% of exports. The irrigated sub-sector, which
included sugarcane, dominated (and still does today), agricultural activity and production.
2.3        The soils and climate of the Sudan are well-suited to sugarcane production, and
initial attempts to establish a sugar industry in the 1960s had been successful. The industry
however suffered steady decline in production and yields during the 1970s and was
performing substantially below the level of domestic demand and far below the potential
level of production. Given the relatively high levels of domestic consumption ( an average
of 24 kg per capita per annum as compared to an Africa-wide average rate of about 15 kg),
imports of sugar were increasing annually, reaching 12% of total value of imports in
1981/82.
2.4        The under-performance of the sugar industry was largely due to low prices paid
to production units; insufficient irrigation facilities; equipment and manpower shortages;
lack of foreign exchange; inadequate management and financial systems; and poor design and
construction of some of the sugar factories. SRP aimed at addressing a number of these
problems.
3. Project Objectives and Description
Objectives
3.1        The objective of the project was to raise sugarcane yields and the total quantity
of sugar produced by 4 public sugar companies (Assalaya, Guneid, New Halfa and Sennar)
through the rehabilitation of sugarcane estates and associated factories and by improving their
management and that of the sugar industry in general.
Description
3.2        The project was comprised of eight components as follows:
(a)    improving agricultural operations through the provision of cultivation
equipment, transport and harvesting equipment, miscellaneous
equipment and vehicles, and up-grading field workshops and estate
buildings;
(b)    rehabilitation of irrigation facilities through the provision of new
pumps and motors, back-up power generators, repairs to pump stations
2



and overall improvements in irrigation methods and efficiency of in-
field water distribution;
(c)    rehabilitation of factories by providing parts and materials, installation
of bagasse reclaim systems, undertaking major remedial works to
correct structural faults, and rectifying the ground-heave problem at
some of the factories;
(d)    infrastructural support by  improving  electricity  and  internal
communication facilities, upgrading staff housing facilities, renovating
health centres, provision of additional school classrooms, and the
provision of specialized tools and equipment for building maintenance;
(e)    improving support services through the provision of office and
accounting equipment, and providing internationally recruited
management teams to revamp the technical and management services
of the companies;
(f)    support to project implementation by providing the Sugar Project
Implementation Cell (SPIC) with a team of technical advisors and
funds for limited support services and facilities;
(g)    strengthening the training capabilities within the sugar industry by
rehabilitating the Sennar training centre and provision of a combination
of technical assistance training and external courses; and
(h)    support to sugarcane research by intensifying and expanding activities
at the Guneid Research Centre.
Costs and Financing
3.3        As shown in Table 5, project costs were estimated at US$181.3 million, of
which the agriculture and factory components were the largest, respectively constituting 30%
and 29% of total base costs. IDA agreed to finance US$60 million (SDR56.4 million) or
almost a third of total funding requirements. The AF, SF and KFW were to contribute
US$47.2 million, US$23.5 million and US$17.3 million, respectively. The balance of
US$33.3 million or slightly over 18% of total funding was to be provided by GOS. The AF
contribution was later increased to US$59.0 million while those of SF and KFW were
increased to US$38.5 and US$22.9 million, respectively. GOS contribution was reduced to
US$3.0 million.
3



4. Project Design and Organization
Design
4.1        The project concept was straight forward and appears to have been well
understood by all the parties involved. Overall, the project was well-designed and addressed
the major bottlenecks which faced the sugar industry at the time. It however was too
optimistic about the levels of cane yield increases which would be achieved as a result of the
project (although these, and the rated capacities of 2 factories were revised downwards at
MTR). There was also an under-estimation of the strategic value which GOS attaches to
keeping the consumer sugar price as low as possible, notwithstanding the economic and
financial rationale for a substantial increase. Lack of compliance with the sugar price reforms
was recognized as a project risk in the SAR but no adequate conditionalities were
incorporated in the DCA to facilitate borrower compliance. Given the large size of the
project, in retrospect, it appears that the project would have had greater and more lasting
impact, had it been implemented in two phases, focussing on two sugar companies in each
phase.
Organization and Management
4.2        Overall responsibility for the project was vested in the Ministry of Industry
(MOI) where a unit existed to deal with the sugar industry; it also coordinate research and
training for the industry. With the exception of training and research components, the day
to day execution of the project was to be carried out by the 4 sugar companies. The training
component was contracted to UNIDO while implementation of the research component was
given to the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) under the Ministry of Agriculture and
Irrigation (MOAI). The MOI's Sugar Project Implementation Cell (SPIC), formed to assist
with project preparation, was retained to coordinate, supervise and monitor the project during
implementation and to provide project level reporting. In 1993, the Sugar Corporation was
replaced by the Sudanese Sugar Production Company (SSPC) to which GOS assigned holding
company status for the 4 sugar companies being assisted by the project. Generally, these
arrangements worked well with the exception of the research component where there was no
adequate coordination between the research team and the sugar industry to establish research
priorities for the industry as had been stipulated in the SAR.
5. Project Implementation
5.1        Soon after the IDA Board approved the Credit for the project, AF withdrew
from the project because GOS was in arrears on repayments of previous borrowing. The
outlook for the SF funding continued to be uncertain and it also practically withdrew from
the project. However, just before the commencement of the core program's implementation,
GOS resolved the outstanding issues with AF and SF, who then restored their support for
the project. AF promptly released it share of the funding but the SF resources were not
released until May 1986, by which time the project had lost almost 18 months of
4



implementation time. The core program evolved by IDA was however not lost because many
essential components earlier earmarked for AF and SF were transferred to IDA.
5.2        The project was implemented under deteriorating macro-economic conditions
characterized, at one point or another, by foreign exchange shortages, labour unrest, energy
shortages and declining foreign aid flows. Whereas labour and energy problems generally
eased with time, the other problems mentioned above generally worsened, hindering smooth
project implementation. The project therefore made no perceptible impact on increasing
sugar production in the first 4 years of implementation. Actual sugar production in fact
declined from 192,000 tons in 1984/85 to 122,000 tons in 1988/89. An IDA supervision
mission which visited the project in January/February 1990, in consultation with GOS and
other co-financiers, restructured it into a 2 year programme called the "New Core
Programme" (NCP) with investments totalling US$78 million. The NCP's prime objective
was to increase sugar production over the next 2 years following the same strategy as SRP
but prioritizing investments into critical inputs essential to achieve the objective in the
immediate short run. The NCP was however not able to run its full course. Following the
Gulf Crisis of early 1990, the AF and SF cancelled their funding to the project in mid-1990.
The NCP was therefore re-structured by IDA in March/April 1991 into a "Revised New
Core Programme" (RNCP). Under RNCP, items of critical importance intended for SF/AF
funding were re-assigned to IDA and less important ones were dropped or down sized,
yielding an investment package of US$31 million to be disbursed during the remaining
period.
5.3        The project was supposed to be implemented over a 5 year period to December
1990. However, because of the initial delays and the subsequent co-financing problems which
disrupted operations and programmes, the project could not achieve its objectives within the
planned time-frame and had to be extended three times involving a period of 3 years. It
finally closed on 31 December, 1993.
5.4        The implementation of the individual aspects of the project is discussed below.
Agriculture
5.5        The scheduled allocation of cultivation equipment, loaders, cane transportation
trailers and tractors, miscellaneous agricultural equipment and tools, and personal vehicles
have now been received. A comparison of appraisal estimates and what was actually bought
is shown in Table 4. The appraisal quantities were exceeded in most cases. Most of the
equipment purchased has performed satisfactorily, although some items were found to be
unsuitable. Among the items which have not given satisfactory service are some of the cane
transport tractors, motor graders and agricultural implements. Discussions with agricultural
estate managers and SPIC personnel revealed the generally held opinion that too much
emphasis was given to price in the procurement process and insufficient attention was given
to the value of having equipment with a proven track record in the Sudan and to the local
availability of spare parts for the models purchased. Management was also of the opinion
that a better selection of spare parts could have been made at the time of purchase.
5



Irrigation
5.6        This component has in most cases been successfully implemented.  The
pumping station at Guneid, Sennar and Assalaya have been refurbished and the irrigation
canal system has been cleaned. Two 1.75 mw diesel stand-by generators at Guneid and two
3 mw diesel stand-by generators at Assalaya have been installed. The two 1.25 mw stand-by
generators planned for Sennar were dropped due to the down-sizing of the programme. The
pumping stations at Guneid, Sennar and Assalaya were adequately refurbished by the project.
Factories
5.7        The suspension of AF and SF funding severely disrupted factory rehabilitation,
particularly at Sennar and Assalaya. The rehabilitation work was therefore only partially
completed and some outstanding items remain critical to the smooth functioning of the
factories. The rehabilitation of individual factories is summarized below.
Guneid and New Halfa: Since most of the rehabilitation was funded
from KFW funds, a major portion of the rehabilitation programme at
these two factories was carried out and has been satisfactorily
completed. The work included extensive boiler repair and the supply
of factory spare parts and instrumentation.  The complementary
portion of the programme, to be financed by AF and SF loans, which
would have replaced selected equipment and provided further spare
parts, never took place because of the suspension of funding from
those sources. Scheduled elements which have not been implemented
include a bagasse reclaimer and shed, replacement of the asbestos
sheets on the factory roof, factory ventilation and repairs to the factory
yard.
Sennar: The rehabilitation programme at Sennar was inadequate
largely because of the suspension of AF and SF funding. Although
some process modifications (installation of a new juice imbibition
system, juice screening, extensions to evaporator bodies and the
refurbishing of massecuite crystallizers) and civil works (the design
and installation of a drainage system to protect factory foundations
from displacement) were successfully completed. The project was,
however, unable to implement many critical items essential to the
factory's operations. These included the provision of a new boiler and
the supply of instrumentation, boiler tubes, refractory and general
spares for the remaining boilers; turbine knife drives or other
equipment to improve cane preparation; and centrifugals for
commercial sugar extraction. Also included in the scheduled
rehabilitation but not undertaken was the installation of the bagasse
reclaimer and an extension to the bagasse shed, both of which are still
required.
6



Assalaya: The overall position of the rehabilitation programme at
Assalaya is very similar to that at Sennar. The rehabilitation work
carried out on the imbibition system, juice screening, evaporators and
to correct flour heave was satisfactorily completed. The scheduled
work relating to the bagasse reclaimer, bagasse shed, ventilation and
cane yard repairs is still required. In addition 3 mill drive gear boxes
on the mill turbines are in need of immediate replacement.
Workshops
5.8        The planned rehabilitation of the workshops was only partially done. Workshop
tools were bought and distributed. A new workshop was built and partially equipped at New
Halfa. However, the planned rehabilitation works involving repairs and extensions of
workshops at the other 3 factories was interrupted by the withdrawal of AF and SF funding
and the renovations planned were not undertaken and are still required.
Infrastructure
5.9        The planned infrastructural activities were heavily curtailed by the suspension
of SF funding and the resultant restructuring of the project which omitted or down-graded
infrastructure development. The implementation of the respective sub-components is
discussed below.
Communications: This sub-component was satisfactorily implemented.
The project installed an HF-radio network for telephone and telex
communication between the 4 sugar companies, Khartoum and Port
Sudan; a VHF-radio network with repeater stations for communication
over each sugar estate; a VHF- hand-held radio transmitter network
for communication within each sugar factory complex; and a 100-line
telephone exchange within each of the 4 sugar companies.
Housing and Services: Bids for this work were issued, offers received
and evaluated but the work was not implemented as the allocated (SF)
funds were not made available.
Social Infrastructure: The proposed improvement of health and
education facilities, including a new health centre at Assalaya, and new
classrooms and market facilities at each of the factories were not
undertaken because the funds allocated (SF) were suspended.
Maintenance Equipment: Specialized tools and equipment to assist
with building maintenance were not purchased as funds (SF) were not
available.
7



Support Services
5.10       The implementation of the respective sub-components is discussed below.
Office and Accounting Equipment: The major items of equipment
provided by the project were 17 laptop and 13 desktop computers.
However, the software and the technical assistance necessary to
implement computerized inventory and payroll and general accounting
systems and office procedures did not materialize through the MATS
programme as was anticipated. The hardware is therefore not being
adequately utilized.
Management Assistance and Training (MATS): Multi-disciplinary
technical assistance teams composed of managers and technicians were
hired for each sugar company. However, instead of engaging 16
consultants for each company, at the beginning and gradually reducing
the number to 5 by the fifth year of the project (as planned), the
number of experts was reduced to 9 and the duration of their
consultancy reduced to 3 years. They were to advise, set up systems
and train counterpart staff in plantation management, factory
maintenance and management, stores management and accounting.
However, they were not welcomed by all the local staff many of
whom felt that the required skills could be obtained locally and the
money utilized elsewhere in the sugar industry. The contract of the
MATS team at New Halfa was prematurely terminated due to
inadequate performance, and was replaced. The teams at Sennar and
Assalaya were discontinued after the initial 3 year contracts which
ended in June 1990 while the contracts at Guneid were extended for
a further year to June 1991 with 4 to 5 personnel. This was followed
by a final period to March 1993 with one full-time factory expert and
an EDP expert for 6 months.
Training
5.11       The implementation of this component was contracted to UNIDO. The project
aimed at training 1,175 trainers and 1,840 skilled, semi-skilled, technicians and supervisory
staff, and included a provision for 60 fellowships for overseas training of middle and senior
management. To improve local training, the buildings at the Sennar Training Centre (STC)
were to be extended by the GOS and equipped by the project.
5.12       The agency contracted to carry out the training component was unable to
develop a programme which was acceptable to the GOS and SPIC and, after repeated delays,
the training budget was revised downward as a part of the NCP and rescheduled in two
phases. Phase I required UNIDO to develop a detailed implementation programme for the
remaining 3.5 years of the project and this was belatedly completed by August 1989. Phase
II, the implementation, was put on hold until the GOS completed the new buildings at STC
8



and the sugar companies established complementary training units within their personnel
departments. However construction work on buildings at STC was delayed and an ad hoc
training programme had to be developed to salvage the training component. The ad hoc
programme, with the assistance of the British Council, provided special courses for 12-
trainee trainers at ILO in Turin, Italy, and 18 trainees to engineering courses lasting 2 to 4
months at Tyneside Technical College in the UK. Fifty technicians were trained under a
Japanese (Komatsa) funded programme and Senior management officials attended a
seminar/tour in the USA. Two scientists from the Guneid Sugar Research Station visited
Coimbatore, India, to study new cane varieties and 9 technicians took courses at the Regional
Sugar Training Institute in Mauritius. A total of 353 candidates out of a targeted
3,015 trainees (111/2 %) received some training under the programme. The project provided
an increased budget of US$350,000 for training aids and workshop equipment at STC, most
of which has arrived at site and will be placed in the new STC buildings upon their
completion.
Sugarcane Research
5.13       The project provided motor vehicles, apparatus and laboratory equipment to the
sugar cane research centre at Guneid, but the station was not able to undertake an active
programme of variety selection as was hoped by the project. This is largely because on the
technical side, there was no adequate collaboration between research people and the sugar
companies to determine the latter's priorities and needs on which research activities should
focus although this had been stipulated in the SAR. If the initiative already taken by the
company to amalgamate the operations of the Guneid station with that of Kenana (a private
sugar company) could be effected, the research effort, and in particular the variety selection
programme for sugar cane in the Sudan, would be better served.
6. Project Results and Impact
6.1        Although the project effectively rehabilitated the irrigation system and the
inventory of agricultural equipment and spare parts, the sugar factories were only partially
rehabilitated and SRP's impact on infrastructure development and institutional strengthening
was limited, largely because of protracted start-up delays and funding constraints which
resulted from the suspension of AF and SF financing. In the face of these detractors, the
project was unable to achieve all that it set out to do; overall project performance is thus
deemed unsatisfactory.
Sugar Production
6.2        The project did not achieve its sugar production target. Production peaked at
218,000 tons in 1991/92 and declined to 205,000 in 1992/93 both of which are substantially
below the SAR estimate of 317,000 tons. The infusion of capital, and in particular foreign
exchange, has effectively rehabilitated the industry's irrigation system, its inventory of
agricultural equipment and partially rehabilitated the four sugar factories. However, when
9



the project started, the sugar industry was already in a state of decline which continued for
a further 2 to 3 years until the inputs of the programme began to take effect.
6.3        The actual and projected sugarcane production area and output are shown in
Appendix 1. This shows that industry output continued to decline during the initial years of
the project reaching bottom levels in 1988/89 when cane production fell to 1.46 million
because of reduced area and declining yields. In the same year sugar output reached a low
of 122,000 tons because of the above reasons but also because of a low recovery rate. All
indicators began to improve after 1988/89 as the rehabilitation programme began to have
impact. The interventions in agriculture and irrigation resulted in annual expansion in areas
cultivated reaching a peak of 83,000 feddans in 1991/92 before declining slightly to 82,000
feddans in 1992/93. The average cane yields, though still below the pre-project level of 32.4
tons per feddan, improved to 27.4 tons per feddan and total cane production increased by
52% between 1988/89 and 1992/92 to 2.23 million tons. This is well below the appraisal
target of 3.18 million tons but, in all likelihood, recent cane production would have been
substantially higher had it not been for the problems of the extensive flowering of the two
commercial varieties, the seasonal labour shortages and inadequate availability of spare parts
for harvesting and transport equipment.
6.4        Meanwhile factory rehabilitation programmes were taking effect resulting in a
steady improvement in mill extraction and boiling house efficiency leading to increased
recovery rates of above 9% from 1989/90 onwards which compare well with the 9.5 - 10%
estimated at appraisal. However, similar improvements in daily throughput and down time
have not taken place, indicating that further factory rehabilitation is required. If critical
equipment replacements such as boilers, gearboxes and centrifugals are made, spare parts
availability is maintained and adequate training is done, there could be a further 6-8%
improvement in factory recovery and a 25% improvement in daily throughput. Such an
improvement would reduce a typical crop of 200 days milling to 150 days and increase
factory capacity utilization.
Support Services
6.5        The project-provided laptop and desktop computers have had little or no impact
on the recording and reporting operations of the sugar companies whose records are still
largely maintained manually. The impact of the MATS programme were mixed. On the
accounting side, new accounting, costing and store recording systems were developed along
with user manuals. However, by employing different MATS teams at different factories, the
systems evolved were not uniform thus necessitating SSPC, later on, to hold a seminar to
try and sort out the differences. These differences however remain. On the technical side,
the MATS teams provided valued assistance in the preparation of requirements and
specifications, and advising on day-to-day operations of the factory and workshops.
Procedural manuals were prepared for process operations and training, but like those
prepared for accounting, were not successful in having them implemented.
10



Training
6.6        Although the training programme was heavily scaled back, the few people
trained were key personnel in senior and middle management, as well as engineers,
technologists and senior technicians. The STC is only now approaching completion and has
therefore had no discernible impact on operations during the life of the project. However,if
given adequate support and guidance, STC will make a valuable contribution to the industry
in future.
Research
6.7        Lack of adequate coordination between the research programme officers and the
sugar companies resulted in research activities which were not demand-driven and therefore
of little immediate use to the industry.
Sugar Prices
6.8        The project was not successful in encouraging GOS to liberalize the price of
sugar and thereby enable the sugar companies to obtain a realistic ex-factory price for their
product. Sugar prices were regularly revised but invariably remained well-below import
parity and the sugar companies have continued to receive an unrealistically low price for
their sugar which has put them in further financial decline.
Financial Position of the Sugar Companies
6.9        The anticipated improvement at appraisal in the financial situation of the sugar
companies did not materialize. As shown in Appendix 3, if sugar sales alone are taken into
account, the companies collectively lost money throughout the project period except in 1991
when there was a windfall because of local currency devaluation which affected inventory
valuations. However, when sales of molasses and other on farm income are taken into
account, in Appendices 4 - 7, individual company performances improved after 1990
particularly at Sennar and Assalaya. The only exception was at Guneid where net losses
continued to mount, rising from LS17 million in 1985 to LS238 million in 1993 in constant
terms. The poor returns from sugar operations is attributed to low sugar prices paid to the
factories but other notable contributory factors are high operating costs,low cane yields and
production, and across the board factory capacity under-utilization.
6.10       The anticipated financial restructuring of the companies whereby the outstanding
debt to GOS would have been capitalized and the companies attaining a better mix between
debt and equity did not materialize. GOS hesitated to go ahead with the restructuring and
later hinted that it was planning to privatize the companies any way. The privatization has
not taken place. Instead another parastatal, SSPC, was formed to take over the 4 sugar
companies.
1 1



Economic Rate of Return
6.11     The principal economic benefits of the project were expected to accrue from the
increased production of white sugar. The associated economic costs would be the investments
by the project, the replacement costs as well as the operational costs. The anticipated benefits
did not materialize largely because they were too optimistic both in terms of area to be
planted to sugarcane and the corresponding yields. As shown in Appendix 1, the SAR
assumed that total area planted would level off at 88,000 feddans from 1988/89 onwards. As
it turned out, in that year, only 63,000 feddans were planted, and in 1991/92 which was the
best production year under the project, only 83,000 feddans were planted. The SAR assumed
that cane yields would increase and stabilize at 36 tons per feddan by 1989/90. However,
not only did actual yield decline reaching a low of 22.4 tons per feddan in 1989/90, but also
the best yield attained in 1993/93 was only 27.4 tons per feddan. The shortfalls in both area
and average yields resulted in shortfalls in total cane production, low daily throughputs and
the continued capacity under-utilization by the factories. At the factories, the inadequate
rehabilitation of some of the factories led to production inefficiencies and high down-time.
6.12    The estimated economic costs and benefits stream expected from the project over
a 20 year period are set out in Appendix 10. These assume that sugar production will
gradually increase from 205,000 tons realized in 1992/93 and stabilize at 250,000 tons in
1996/97. This is a conservative estimate because there is potential for producing much more.
The analysis shows that the project will attain an economic rate of return (ERR) of only
12%. This is substantially less than the SAR estimate of 40% for the reasons given in the
preceding paragraph. But given the current macro-economic environment which may not
improve in the near term, there is need for caution. A further analysis has therefore been
done assuming production stabilizes at 218,000 tons which was the highest output during the
project period. On that assumption, the ERR declines to only 6%.
7. Sustainability
7.1        The sustainability of the investments by the project are threatened by lack of
foreign exchange to import the necessary agricultural inputs and factory spares and
equipment. Due to the premature failure of some items of equipment and the unavailability
of spare parts for others there is already evidence of a shortage of working equipment for
land preparation, cane transport and harvesting. This shortage is undoubtedly aggravated by
generally inadequate maintenance due to the lack of skilled technicians and suitable workshop
facilities particularly at Guneid and Assalaya. It is doubtful whether the existing agricultural
equipment, in its present condition and at its current level of maintenance, will be able to
achieve projected planting schedules or the increases in cane delivery that would be required
for factories to operate at, or near, their nominal daily throughputs. The boilers at Sennar
and Assalaya which were not rehabilitated by the project as planned require immediate
repairs or replacement if the two factories are to realize optimum efficiencies and take on
an increased volume of cane. Persistent cane harvesting labour shortages also pose a big
problem in the immediate and long run. On the financial side, there is need to increase
profitability so that the factories become financially independent. This necessitates factories
12



to be given a better price for their sugar; an increase in cane production so that factories can
operate at or near their rated capacities; and closer watch on operating costs in all factories.
8. Bank Performance
8.1        The Bank performed creditably throughout the project cycle. As shown in Table
8, sixteen supervision missions visited the country during the project's life to oversee
implementation progress and offer advice. Their assistance was appreciated in giving
leadership, particularly in restructuring and re-focusing the project in the light of declining
funding. Most mission members made repeat visits to the project thus facilitating continuity
in supervision. The transfer of project supervision responsibilities to Bank staff stationed in
the field, undoubtedly added to the overall quality of supervision.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1        The Borrower showed continuous commitment towards the project. All major
covenants were fulfilled with the exception of the one relating to liberalization of sugar
prices and the financial restructuring of the 4 sugar companies. Due to the deteriorating
balance of payments position, the Borrower was not always able to provide the needed
foreign exchange to import agricultural inputs.
9.2        SPIC carried out its procurement, monitoring and reporting functions with
dedication and generally well. Later, an IDA supervision mission detected some skill gaps
in some of SPIC's management functions and suggested the recruitment of 2 TA personnel
but this recommendation was not acted upon.
10. Project Relationships
10.1       GOS and IDA maintained a sound working relationship. This proved very useful
when two of the co-financiers decided to withhold funding thus necessitating repeated
restructuring of the project.
11. Consulting Services
11.1       The main consultants employed by the project caine under the MATS sub-
component. Their input and impact has already been discussed in Sections 5 and 6 of this
report.
13



12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1       The SAR was well-documented and formed a useful tool against which to
measure project progress. The Credit and Loan Agreements were clear and well-understood
by all concerned.
12.2       Both SPIC and the sugar companies kept adequate records and reports from
which the preparation of this PCR has greatly benefited. At SPIC, a computerized recording
and reporting system was designed and staff were trained to operate it. In time, a core of
several computer-literate staff evolved and facilitated timely recording and reporting on the
project. It is desirable that these trained staff are not lost by the sugar industry particularly
as they could later be absorbed and usefully engaged when the accounting and administrative
functions are computerized (as currently planned).
13. Lessons Learnt
13.1       The main lessons learnt from implementing this project are:
(a)    to avoid the funding of various inter-linked components within a
project, through several co-financiers; where this is unavoidable,
contingency plans should be in place for multi-donor interventions, to
address problems in the case that some of the anticipated financing
does not materialize;
(b)    realistic project targets should be established, and the temptation of
being overly optimistic about project impact should be avoided;
(c)    Research activities should be targeted to the needs of the industry and
research programmes set in consultation with the industry.
(d)    Procurement specifications should give adequate weight to local
conditions and support services in the recipient country.
(e)    policy measures which are pre-requisites for project success ( in this
case an appropriate level of sugar price) should be assessed upfront
and included in the Credit/Loan Agreement as pre-conditions for
project financing.
14



PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
No Part II has been received.
15



PART III: STATISTICAL INFORINIATION
Table 1. Related IDA Credits
r Loan/Credit            Title           Amount        Year of      Comments
Number                               (US$M1)      Approval
CR 782-SU      Livestock M 4arketing      25.0          1978       Completed
CR 804-SU      Mechanized                 16.0          1978       Completed
Farming III
CR 834-SU      Agricultural               15.0          1978       Completed
Research
CR 904-SU      SO. Region                 15.0          1979       Completed
Agriculture
CR 1181-SU    Western                     13.0          1981       Completed
Savannah
CR 1201-SU    Agricultural Services       18.0          1982       Completed
CR 1388        Gezira Rehabilitation      80.0          1983       Completed
CR 1389        Agricultural               50.0          1983       Completed
Rehabilitation
Source: IDA Records.
16



Table 2. Project Timetable
Item              Planned Date  Revised Date    Actual Date
- Identification '                N/A                           4/82
- Preparation ^'                  N/A                           6/82
- Pre-Appraisal Mission           N/A                           1/83
- Appraisal Mission               7/83          9/83            9/83
- Loan/Negotiations               3/84          4/84            4/84
- Board Approval                  3/84          4/84            4/84
- Loan Signature                                                8/84
- Loan Effectiveness              11/84          2/85 )
6/85)          8/85
8/85)
- Loan Completion                 6/90          6/91
6/92           6/93
6/93
- Loan Closing                    12/90         12/91
12/92           12/93
12/93
6/94
a Done by GOS and Consultants.
Source: IDA Records
17



rable 3. Cumulative Loan Disbursements
(US$M)
IDA Fiscal Year
1985     1986      1987      1988      1989     1990      1991     1992      1993     1994
SAR Estimate              11.5     32.7      46.8      54.5      59.2    60.0 4'
Actual                     0        3.2       7.2      19.3      31.8    41.0       45.4     51.7      59.1    66.6
Actual as % of SAR Est.    0       10.0       15.0     35.0      54.0     68.0      76.0     86.0      99.0    111.0
NOTE
W Equivalent SDR 56.4 million.
b' Equivalent SDR 50.1 million or 89% of the total credit.
Source: SAR and IDA disbursement records as of 6 May 1994.



Table 4. Project Implementation
SAR                 Actual as % of
Unit          Targd       |    Actual          Estimate                       Comment
Agricultural Rehabilitation
75-95 hp tractors                      number            126              132              105
. 127-hp tractors                       number             107              149             139
. Cane trailers                         number             290             270               93
. Cane harvesters                       number              15              20              133
. General purpose trailers              number              22               17              77
. Water & fuel tankers                  number              18               19             106
. 140-hp dozers                         number               1               4              400
. Ambulances                            number               4                5             125
. 2-wd pick-ups                         number              37              56              151
. 4-wd pick-ups                         number              16              66              412
. Saloon cars                           number               0               10                -
. Passenger bus                         number               0                1                -
. 12-seater minibus                     number               8               14             175
.Motorcycles                            number             41               46              112
Factory Rehabilitation
Factories rehabilitated                 number               4               4              100       Varying levels of rehabilitation
Inrrastructure
. Staff housing                         number             96                 -               0      External funding withheld
. Health centre                         number               I                -               0      idem
. Office computers                      number             n/a              30              n/a      17 laptops & 13 desktops
Management Assistance
. Technical assistance                   team               4                4              100      An average of 9 experts per team for an average
period of 3 years
'I'raining
Staff trained                         number           3,015              303               12      Programme delays & disagreements between
UNIDO & GOS



Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Costs
SAR Estimate                                     Actual
Component                  Local       Foreign                                       oreign |        otal '   Actual as %
I  Irotal    Revise(i    Local  'I'otal     of' SAR
...........US$M...........
Agriculture                              7.6          3.1       43.7
Irrigation                               5.3         13.2       18.5
1Factory                                 7.9         34.0       41.9
Infrastructure                           5.8          7.2       13.0
Support services                         0.7         19.3       20.0
Stiugalr research                        0.2          0.7        (.9
Project inmpleinctitatiotn team          0.4          3.5        3.9
Training                                 0.4          4.1        4.5
TOTAL BASELINE                           28.3       118.1      146.4
Contingencies                            4.1         30.8       34.9
TOTAL COSTS                              32.4       148.9      181.3       183.4 ht     n.a.      n.a.     157.2           87
a Including contingencies. Conmponent-wise breakdown provided by SPIC totals UJS$144. i million because IDA tunding was translated into
US$ at a fixed exchange rate of SDR .00 = US$1.07 used at appraisal rather than the actual rate at the time of dishursements. This had
ihe impact of understating IDA funding and the related costs in US$ terms. The total reflected here is by funiding as showil in Section B of-
this table.
I'er Sl'IC.
Siource: SAR and SP'IC.



Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
B. Financing
I                 I                 X    Actual as % of
Unit                 Per Agreement            Revised            Actual               Revised
............................... million.
A. IDA Category
1 Civil works                          SDR                         3.00                                    2.20                73
2. Vehicles                             SDR                        19.20                                  33.68               175
3. Consultants & support                SDR                       27.60                                   13.40                48
services
4. Refunding of project                 SDR                         0.95                                   0.95               100
preparation advance
5. Unallocated                          SDR                         5.65
Sub-lotal                       SI)R                       56.40               56.40               50.23                89 '
I ISS equivalent               60.00               60.00               66.57 e
It. Arab lund                           IJUsS                     47.20                59.00 4'           48.42 4'             82 b/
C. Saudi Fun(                           USS$                       23.50               38.50 '            14.29 ''              37 s'
D. KFW                                  US$                        17.30               22.90              22.90!               100
E. GOS                                  US$                       33.30                 3.004'             5.004'              167
TOTAL                                   US$                       181.30              183.40             157.18                 87
! Credit was extended 4 times                      E' Per IDA disbursement records.
b Loan was suspended 3 times.                       ' Per SPIC records The KFW grant was fully disbursed
" Loan was suspended 4 times.
LI Per SPIC.
Source: Credit & Loan Agreements; IDA Disbursement



Table 6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Unit             SAR Estimate           PCR Estimate
Foreign exchange savings            US$M                    67.0                   n.a.
Additional jobs:
. Permanent                        number                  1,150                   n.a.
. Seasonal                         number                  5,320                   n.a.
B. Economic Impact
SAR Estimate                PCR Estimate
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~................. %                   ..............
Economic rate of return (ERR)                        40                           12
Note: The PCR estimated ERR is low compared to the SAR largely because the anticipated production benefits did
not materialize. The PCR estimate assumed sugar production will increase to and stabilize at 250,000 tons in
1996/97. However, if this does not materialize, and production stabilizes at 218,000 tons (which was the highest
achieved by the project), the ERR will be only 6%.
C. Financial Benefits
New
Guneid|  Haifa          Sennar I Assalaya
............... LS million .......;.|
Incremental net income for the sugar
companies
. SAR 4'                                            43.4         43.8       51.1         42.3
. Actual bl                                       (344.2)       181.3      106.6          (5.7)
a/ In 1993 constant terms.
bl Based on financial results for the year ended 30 June 1993.
D. Studies
No studies were stipulated at appraisal and none was carried out during project
implementation.
22



Table 7. Status of Major Covenanis                                                       Page I
DCA Section                                          Subject                                                            Status
3.01 (c)            The Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the Credit available to the      Complied.
Companies under subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the
Borrower and each of the Companies, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association.
3.02 (a)            The Borrower shall cause all departments and -agencies carrying out the Project to   August 31, 1984 deadline was not met. Complied
prepare and submit to SPIC draft annual work programmes not later than August   thereafter.
31, 1984, and thereafter not later than March I of each year for the following
fiscal year, such programmes to be prepared according to a format and to include
items acceptable to the Association.
3.02 (b)           'TIe Borrower shall prepare and submit to the Association, not later than October   October 30, 1984 deadline was not met. Complied
30, 1984, and thereafter not later than May I of each year, a proposed Annual   thereafter.
Work Programme for the following fiscal year.
3.03 (a)            In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A, B and C of the Project, the Complied.
Borrower shall employ, in accordance with the Annual Work Programme,
agricultural, engineering and management consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms of conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
3.03 (b) (i)        The Borrower shall maintain records and procedures adequate to record and        Largely complied.
monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project.
3.03 (e)            Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than six montiis The Borrower is preparing Ilart 11 of the PCR.
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost
and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the perfortnance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations.



Table 7. Status of Major Covenants                                                         Page 2
DCA Seclion                                            Subject                                                              Staluus
.06                 The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action as shall be necessary   Complied.
to acquire, as and when needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
3.08                The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the Companies have  Partially complied largely because of problems of
access to essential imponed recurrent inputs, including supplies of fuel sufficient to securing foreign exchange for inipons.
operate the electrical generators for the irrigation pumps, factories and field
equipmenit.
3 t(O (a)           The Borrower shall determine the producer price for sugar in accordance with        Not complied. Sugar factories are still being paid
principles acceptable lo the Association.                                          prices by GOS which are well below import parity.
4.01 (a)             The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records adequate to        Complied.
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part ihereof.
4.01 (c)             The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to in para. (a) of this Section  Complied.
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, not later than six months after the end of each such
year, copies of the unaudited financial statements related to such accounts:
(iii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not later than
nine months after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by such auditors.



TABLE 8: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A: Staff Inputs
Stage of                '82       '83        '84       '85        '86         '87        '88         '89         '90         '91        '92         '93         '94
Project Cycle
Preparation/            9.9       53.2       12.7                                                    0.4
Pre-Appraisal
Appraisal                                    35.7
Negotiation                                  5.8
Supervision                                             14.0      8.9        26.1        12.2        14.8        15.3        17.8        18.1        18.6       0.9
Other                                                                                                                                                           12.3
TOTAL                   9 9       53 2       54.1       14.0      8.9        26A1        12.2        15.2        153        17.8        18.1     18.6          13.2
sugrehz5 sud



T'able 8. Use of IDA Resources
B. Nlissions
Stage of Project Cycic    Mission Sent by   Montli/year        No. of    No. of I)ays in Skills Specification   Performance       Type of
Persons         Field                              Rating          Problems
I're Appr;isal                     IDA             01/83            7              19
AppI).tI\w                        II )A            09/83            4             32
'IllWelvlEll,  I            I\ A            09/84            3              7               E,F                 2                C
Il)A           2(2/85            3             14               E,F                3                 C
rQ                    iIDA                                10/85            2              3               E,F                 I                C
CY                    4                   IDA             06/86            2              3               E, F                2
5                   IDA             12/86            2              13              E,F                 2
6                   IDA             06/87            4              1()            E,F,A                2                P
7                   IDA             12/87            3              10             E,P,F                2                M
8                   IDA             06/88            3              10             E,F,P                2                F
9                   IDA             09/88            1              4                E                  2
10                  IDA             01/89             3             10               E,F                3               P,M
II                  IDA             01/90             5             15             A,E,F,S              3               C,P
12                  IDA              11/90            2             10               A,S                3                C
13                  IDA             03/91             3             29              A,R,S               2                C
14                  IDA             08/91             1             10                A                 2                C
15                                  02/92             2             13               A,S                2               F,A
16                                   11/92           2              10               A,S                2               F,A
Project ComrpIetion Report      FAO/CP             02/94            2             10               F,S
Key to Abbrevia(ions: E = Engincering; A = Agriculture; P = Procurement; F = Finance; S = Services; C = Co-financing; M = Management.
Source: II)A Rccords.



SUDAN SUGAR REHABILITAIION PROJECT                                  Appem,1l, I
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMPARISON OF      . AW ACTUAL PRODUCTION RESULTS
CROP                                     1984/85    1s8Y H8    18s6/87    1987/88    198&89    198Y990    19ggI91        1W9D/92    1992/93
YEAR
ACTtAL ARE,HAR VESTIF  (Fdl            6sps8      57,604      70P89      e66p75      63,464     71,762      75,858     82,D95      81,556
SAR EST WITHOUT PROJECT (Fd)           72,8w      75,6w       76004    78800         7H.6W      76,fiW      78,0w      768,6       76,6w
SAR EST. WTH PROJECT (Fd)              75spw0     79pX        84pw00     86Jw        88/pw      88PW        88/X       88pw 8w     88p00
SAR EST. INCRiEMENTAL (Fd)               240X0      34(4D       7400       9400,      11400      1140D      1 14(4,     11400)     11400)
ACTUAL INCIREMENTAL Fd)                -6512    -17996        -6511     -10525    -13136        -4838        - 742      8395        495b
ACTUAL CANE YIELD (ToosIFd)              32 4       32 7        29 7       264         231        22 4        24F        271         27 4
SAR EST WITHOUT PfKOECT (TonsIFs          28          29         29          29         29          29         29          29         29
SAR EST. WHTH PROJECT (Tons/Fd)           29          31         33          34         35          36         38          36         36
SAR EST INCREMENTAL (T,l/F,f)            0          2 30        3 56       512         5 03       e 71       6 71        6 77       6 77
ACTUAL INCFEMENTAL (TonsFd)              4 03       3 70        0 35       (2 9       (6 25      (6 88       (4 7        (2 24)     (1 9
ACTUAI CANE PRODUCTION(ToOns            2,144       1.9 1      2,082       1,743      1,463      1 .86       1,865      2,250       21232
SAR EST WITHOUT PROJECT(Tonso0          2.083      2,189       2,248      2.248       2.248      2,248      2.248       2.248      2 248
SA  WITH PROJECT (Trors 000             2,182      2.469       2,763      2.94       3,07       3.178      3,178       3,178      3.178
SAR EST INCREMENTAL(TonD0ow)              119        280        515         718        839         930        930         930        930
ACTUALINCREMENTAL(TonsWW)                 81       -308        -166       -505        -785       -642        -383           2        -16
ACTUAt RFCvEf(1RATF-0Et)                 8 97       8 43        8 2e       8 22        8 31       9 0        9 67        8 E7        9 20
SAR wiTHOUT PROJECT (ts% t)              9 19       8 58        8 39       8 08        88 8C r0             8808         8(8       a8 8
SAR WITH PROJECT (t% t)                  9        32  9 39      9 sP       9 17        9          88 D 97    8 97       D897        9 97
SAREST INCRELENTAL (ts%t)                013        080         1 11       1 79        182        1 89       189         198         189
ACTUAL INCREMENTAL Ps % t)              (O Z       (O 1       .(0.1       014 u      o 23        1 S9        1 60       1 60        1 12
ACTUAL SUGAR OUTPUT ITonJ             192,2S0    158,491     172.043    143.294    121,589    155,174    180,435    217,648      205,324
SAR EST. WITHOUT PROJECT (Tons)       189,575    187,874     188,801    181,556    181,556    181,556    181.556    181,556       181.556
SAR EST. WtTH PROJECT (Tons)          203,278    231,747     282.54    292.480    305,400    31.730    316,730    318,730       316.730
SAR EST INCREMENTAL (Tom)              13,703     43873      73R53      110,924    123,844    135.174     135,174     135,174    135.174
ACTUAL INCREMENTAL (Ton4                2,715    (29,313)    (1685,8    (38,232     (59,987    (26,32      (1.121     36O90      23.765
INCREM. SHOPTFALL IACTUALvsSAF    -10986    -73256    -80511   -149186   -183511    -161556   - 136295                -99084    - 111406
AHBREViATIONS
SAR StatT Appraiss3I Report
ts   Tons d SLUar
t    Tom, of Can-
SAR SPIG and thc Sogar I'actories                                                                                          (rr*rcI 653



ApWfiId, 
SUOAN SUoAfl RLILAIILiJTATION PHOJf Cl
PtlOJEC1 COMPI t IION Fit I'Olli
TOTAI INCOME AND EXPENL3TUII[ ANALYSIS
CROP                                  1984/85     1985/86     1986/8/    1987/88      1988/89     1989/90     1990/91     1991/92     1992/93
YE_AR   _________
INCOME
SALESOF SUGAR (LS'000)                   66.994     113.960     105.M81     130,982     141,678     271,609     442.629     836.352   1,624.310
AVERAGE SUGAR PRICE (LS/s)               34840       71903       61543       91408      1165 22     175035      2453.12    3842.72      791096
AVERAGE SUGAR PRICE (US$Sts)              76,74      158.38      135 56      201 34      256 66      385 54      540 34       98 20       67.16
EXPENCl URE
AGRICULTURE EXPENSES (LS'000)            38.257      51.509      64 206      72,371     104.584     121,587    202.588      336.951     633.454
FACTORY EXPENSES (LS000)                 16.516      25,396      26.066      32.286      50,275      66.432      88.460     129,272     3 10.489
WORKSHOP (LS'000)                         9,581      14.231      18,077      22.736      25,419      49,162      59,162     113.000     428,671
TOTAL OIaECT COST (LS'000)               63.881      91,136     108.349     127,393     180.278     243.181     349.375     579.223   1,372,614
1t)                                  INDIRECT COST (LS'000)                    16.955      19,470      20.155      28,580      37,819      75,965      75.009     148,267     281,384
00
TOTAL OPER. EXPENSES (LSS000)            80.836     110.606     128.504     155.9;iS    217.517     319.146     425,279     727.490   1.653,998
OPERATING PRORT (LOSS) (LS-000)         (21.557)     (8,924     (30201)    (35.451)    (91.108)    (69,195       (9.521)     78,102     (82,332)
UNIT AGFIR EXPENSES (LS/Ic)                17 8        27 4        30 6        41 5        715         79 4       108 6       149 8       283 8
UN T FACTORY EXPENSES (LS/ts)              65 9       160.2       151.5       225 3       413 5       428,1       490 3       594 0      1512.2
UNIT TOTAL DIRECT COST (LS/is)            332 2       575 0       629 8       889 0      1482 7      1567 2      1936 3      2661 3      6685 1
UNT TOTAL OPER. EXPENSES (LS/is)          420.4       697 9       746 9      1088 0      1789 0      2056 7      2357 0      3342 5      8055 6
UNT OPER PROFIT (LOSS) (LAss)            -112.1       -56.3      -175 5      -247 4     -749 3       -445.9       -52 8       358 8      -401 0
UNT AGPI: EXPENSES (US$/tc)                 3 9         6 0         6.8         9 1        15 7        17 5        23 9         3 8         2 4
UNT FACTORY EXPENSES (USS/ls)             18 92       35 29       33 37       49 63       91 08       94 30      107 99       15 18       12 84
UNT TOTAL DIRECT COST (USS/ls)         , 73 17       126 66      138.72      195 82      326 58      345 19      426 50       68 01       56 75
UNT TOTAL OPER EXPENSES (USStt            92 60      153 72      I64 52      239 76      394 04      453 02      519 16       85 42       68 38
UNT NET PROFIT (LOSS) (US$As)            (24 69)     (1240  __8 67)          (54 49)    (165 05)     (98 22      (11 62) _     9 1,       (340)
NOTES
Aveiage Exchange Ra4e (LS/USS)              4 5         4 5         4 5         4 5         4 5         4 5         4 5        391        111 e
IC = [oil of calne
ts =I on ol S,)(ar
SOLUCC: Sllgi)f i .tILorl,' :\CCo(ltsjt.                                                                                                 swidirod Y*3



AppernzLx 3
SUDAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPCRT
Total Income Statement (Profit & Loss Accounts)
(LS 000)
Year Commencing July 1       1984       1985      1986       1987       1 988      1 989     1 99C       1 991      1,2
NCOME       /1
' Sennar                         23084       37866     22955      35868      37533      83818    126650    205750    361 822
Assataya                          16564      22818      28446     35060      25227      47342      83447    131762    283400
iGineid                            8192      15366     21717      22946      43193      86031    140725    345556    555171
New Haifa                         19154      37640     32763      37108      35725      54418     91807    153274    423917
Total                         66994    113690    105881    130982    141678    271609    442629    836352   1624310
EXPEN SES
Direct Costs
Sennar                            17593     24892      23713      32463      46900      55145     83010    113475    21 6748
Assaaya                           13360      21408      22162     31634      37685      40562      66114    113435    239459
Gurzelc                           15184      23026      34301     35623      61436      87496    136073    277228    744953
New Halfa                         17744      21810      28173     27673      34257      59978      67178      75085    171454
Total                         63881      91136    108349    T27393    180278    243181    349375    579223   1372614
rorect Ccsts
Sennar                             4921       5195       5866       8245      7948      13446      11891      24468      30742
Assaiaya                           1547       2759       3090       4578      7980      10155      12345      19668      42438
|iGuired                           4906       4906      5286       8056      13225      22638     29344      69302    139069
New Halfa                          5581       6610      5913       7701       8666      29726     21429      34829       69135
Toai                          16955      19470      20155      28580     37819      75965      75009    148267    281384
Depreciation
Sennar                             1912       2786      2073       2588       3073       4745      6067       7214        3060
Assalaya                           3422       6204       3805      3812       3723       4643       7046       8257       3541
G.Irneloi                             0          0          0      2136       3961       6467       7162       7195      25680
New Haifa                          2381       3018       1700      1924       3932       5803      7221        8094       9363
Total                          7715      12008       7578      10460     1 4689     21658      27496      30760      52644
iTcal Cerat ng Expenses           88551     122614    136082    166433    232786    340804    451880    758250   17W0642
OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS)        -21 557     -8924    -30201    -35451    -91108    -69195         -9251      78102    -82332
Capital Interest
iSenr-ar                            1419       141 9     1419       1419       1419       1419       1419      141         1419
Assalaya                           1 309      2732       1 900      1787      1787       1787       1787       1787        787'
Guineid                               0          0          0       508       1670       2146        600      3600         600
New Haifa                           369        369        369       630       650         60         600        600        600
m Tcal                       3097       4520       3688      4314       5476       5952       4406       7406       :406
NET PRORT (LOSS                -24654    -13444    -33889    -39765   -96584    -75147    -13657            70696 1  -8673
\1 Saies of sugar on y The ncome from molasses anr otner acvmes S exc!udece so as to show operatons of tte conoanies' core acttvitrv
total .v k3
29



SUDAN                                                 Appendix 4
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ASSALAYA Income Statement (Profit& Loss Accounts)
(LS '000)
Year Ending June 30         1985      1986       1987       1988       1989      1990       1991       1992      1993
INCOME
Sugar Sale                     16564      22818      28446     35060      25227      47342      83447    131762    283400
Sales of Molasses etc           3375       2925       2925      3150       4108       9178      14011     69988      11748
Total Reveritic                 19939     25743      31371     38210      29335      56520      97458    201750    295148
I XF'l N'i
Aqilc tilltue                  8160      13065      12642      19944     23506      18959      39619     49329      92759
Fdctory                         3573       5275       5920      6150       7848      11366      13648     23810      55409
Woikstiol                        1627      3068       3600       5540      6331      10237      12847     40296      91291
Total Direct Costs              13360     21408      22162      31634     37685      40562      66114    113435    239459
Indirect cost                    1547      2759       3090      4578       7980      10155      12345      19668     42438
Depreciation                    3422       6204       3805      3812       3723       4643       7046      8257       8541
Total Operating Expenses        18329     30371      29057      40024     49388      55360      85505    141360    290438
OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS)         1610    -4628        2314     - 1814   -20053        1160      11953     60390       4710
Capital Interest                 1309      2732       1900       1787       1787      1787       1787       1787      1787
NET PROFIT (LOSS)               301     - 7360        414     - 3601    - 21840     - 627      10166     58603       2923
NET PROFIT(LOSS)                597   -27070          746    -5016    -29571        -867        7411     44890       2923
(Constant 1993 pices)      I          _  .._                                                            _____
Source. SPIC and SSPC
NB Molasses for all the 4 companies are sold together and the proceeds are equally distributed among them.       assalaya.wk



Appendix S
SUDAN
PROJECT COiVPLETION REPORT
GUNEID: Income Statement (Piofit & Loss Accourts)
(LS '000)
Year Ending3 June             1985      1986      1987      1988      1989       1990      1991      1992      1993
INCOIW#
Sugar Sale                    8192     15366     21717     22946     43193     86031    140725   345556   555171
Sales of MoLasses etc         3375      2925      2925      3150      4108      9178      14011    69988    117487
ToLal Sales                  11567     18291     24642     26096    47301      95209    154736    415544   672658
EXPENSES
Dlrect Costs
AgricLitLre                  10988     17187     25936     26119     40450     61145     93863    200171    397821
Factay                        3233      4722      6626      7829     17048     20931     33917     61831    165900
Workshop                       963      1117      1739      1675      3938      5420      8293      15226    181232
Total Dlect Costs            15184     23026    34301      35623    61436      87496    136073   277228   744953
Ind'ect cost                  4906      4906      5286      8056     13225     22638     29344     61302    139069
Depreclatlon                     0         0         0      2136      3961      6467      7162      7195     26680
Total Operating Expenses     20090     27932    39587    45815       78622    116601    172579   353725   910702
OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS)   -8523    -9641    -14945   -19719   -31321   -21392   -17843    61819  -238044
CapHal Irterest                  0         0         0       508      1670      2146       600      3600       600
NET PROFIT (LOSS)           -8523    -9641   -14945   -20227   -32991   -23538   -18443           58219  -238644
NET PROFI (LOSS)
'(Constart 1993 Prices)   -16918   -35460   -26946   -28176   -44670   -32530   -13445            44596  -238644
Souice: SPIC and SSPC
NB: Molasses of tIhe 4 cornpanies are sold together and Ihe proceeds are eqLally dislrlbuted among Ihem.  guneld.wk3



Appendix 6
SUDAN
PROJECT COMIPLETION REPORT
NEW HALFA: Income Statemert (Prdoit & Loss Accourts)
(LS '000)
Year Ending 30 kJne        1985      1986      1987      1988       1989      1990      1991       1992      1993
INC OME
Sugar Sale                    19154     37640      32763     37108     35725      54418     91807    153274    423917
Sales of Molasses etc          3375      2925       2925      3150      4108       9178     14011     69988    117487
Total Revenue                 22529     40565      35688     40258     39833      63596    105818    223262   541404
EXPENSES
Dlect Costs
Agriciitire                   11496      12079     16373     13801      19105     28451     37304     36185      74790
Factory                        3383      5887       5700      7385      8600      11399     11846     15138      36551
Workshop                       2865      3844       6100      6487      6552      20128     18028     23762      60113
Total Diect Costs             17744     21810      28173     27673     34257      59978     67178     75085    171454
Indkect cost                   5581      6610       5913      7701      8666      29726     21429     3'829     69135
Depreciation                   2381      3018       1700      1924      3932       5803      7221      8094      8363
Total Operating Expenses      25706     31438      35786     37298     46855      95507     95828    118008    248952
OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS)   -3177         9127       -98       2960    -7022   -31911         9990    105254    292452
Capital Irterest                369       369        369       600       600        600       600       600        600
NET PROFIT (LOSS)            -3546      8758      -467       2360    -7622   -32511         9390    104654    291852
NET PROFIT (LOSS)
(Constant 1993 PRices)       -7039     32212      -842       3287    -10320    -44930       6845     80165    291852
. I _                I          I   l _I            I                        _ __1
Soujrce: SPIC and SSPC
NB: Molasses for the 4 companles are sold togehier and tihe proceeds are eqmally distrlbiied arnong lthem.  newtialfa.v



Appendix 7
SUDAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENNAR: Income Slatemerit (Profit & Loss Accour'ts)
(LS '000)
Year Eni(ln_ 30 Jnnr            1985      1986       1987      1988       1989       1990      1991       1992       1993
INCOME
Sugar Sale                     23084     37866      22955     35868      37533      83818    126650    205760    361822
Sales of Molasses etc           3375      2925       2925      3150       4108       9178     14011      69988    117487
Total Revenuie                 26459     40791      25880     39018      41641      92996    140661    275748    479309
EXPENSES
DO ctl Costs
Aguictiltie                     7613      9178       9255     12507      21523      19032     31862      51266     68084
Fact(cy                         5827      9512       7820     10922      16779      22736     29049      28493     52629
Woikshop                        4153      6202       6638      9034       8598      13377     19099      33716     96035
Total Direct Costs             17593     24892      23713     32463      46900      55145     80010    113475    216748
Indiect cost                    4921      5195       5866      8245       7948      13446     11891      24468     30742
Depteciation                    1912      2786       2073      2588       3073      4745       6067       7214      9060
Total Operating Expenses       24426     32873      31652     43296      57921      73336     97968    145157    256550
OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS)        2033      7918     -5772      -4278    -16280       19660     42693    130591    222759
Capital lrterest                1419      1419       1419      1419       1419       1419      1419       1419      1419
NET PROFIT (LOSS)               614      6499     -7191      -5697    -17699       18241     41274    129172    221340
NET PROFIT (LOSS)
(Conistant 1993 PrIces)       1219      23903   -12965       -7936    -23964      25209      30089     98946    221340
___   __                 I              I         I I1                         
Sorice. SPIC and SSPC
NB: Molasses fo aallIte4comTiparues are sold togelt-er and the proceeds are egqLlly disititgted amogJ Ithem.   sennat.wk3



SUDAN                           Appendix 8
Sugar Rehabilitation Project
Project Completion Report
Key Indicators
Average Exchange    Consumer Price        Inflators Cf
Year              Rates 1'          Indices b/
LS/US$
1985                      4.5               45.4                 1.985
1986                      4.5               24.5                3.678
1987                      4.5               50.0                 1.803
1988                      4.5               64.7                 1.393
1989                      4.5               66.7                 1.354
1990                      4.5               65.2                 1.382
1991                      4.5               123.6                0.729
1992                     39.1              117.6                0.766
1993                    117.8               90.1 '               1.00
1994 (February)         340.0
v Derived from data provided by SPIC.
b' Per IMF International Financial Statistics.
To convert prices into 1993 constant terms.
' Figure not available. NMission estimate.
Based on average for 3 quarters to September 1993.
34



Appendix 6
SUDAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
GUNEID: Income Statement (Pront & Loss Accourts)
(LS '000)
Year Ending 30 June           1985      1986      1987      1988      1989       1990      1991      1992      1993
INCOIvE
Sugar Sale                    8192     15366     21717     22946     43193     86031    140725    345556   555171
Sales ol Molasses etc         3375      2925      2925      3150      4108      9178      14011     69988    117487
ToLaIl Sales                 11567     18291     24642    26096      47301     95209    154736    415544   672658
EXPENSES
Dlect Costs
AgiccLiture                  10988     17187     25936    26119      40450     61145     93863    200171    397821
Factery                       3233      4722      6626      7829     17048     20931     33917      61831    165900
Warkshop                       963      1117      1739      1675      3938      5420       8293     15226    181232
Total Dlect Costs            15184    23026      34301     35623     61436     87496    136073    277228   744953
Indlect cost                  4906      4906      5286      8056     13225     22638     29344     65302    139069
Depreciation                     0         0         0      2136      3961      6467      7162      7195     26680
Total Operating Expenses     20090     27932     39587     45815     78622    116601    172579   353725   910702
OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS)   -8523    -9641   -14945   -19719   -31321   -21392   -17843             61819  -238044
Capltal Irterest                 0         0         0       508      1670      2146       600      3600       600
NET PROFIT (LOSS)           -8523    -9641   -14945   -20227   -32991   -23538   -18443           58219  -238644
NET PROFI (LOSS)
'(Constant 1993 Prices)    -16918   -35460   -26946   -28176   -44670   -32530   -13445    44596  -238644
Souice: SPIC and SSPC
NB: Molasses for the 4 compariles are sold together and the proceeds are equally distrlbtied among them.  guneid.v*3



Appendix 6
SUDAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NEW HALFA: Income Statemert (Proft & Loss Accourts)
(LS '000)
Year Ending 30 June       1985      1986       1987      1988      1989      1990      1991       1992      1993
INCOME
Sugar Sale                    19154     37640     32763     37108     35725     54418      91807    153274    423917
Sales of Molasses etc          3375      2925      2925      3150      4108      9178      14011     69988    117487
Total Revenue                 22529     40565     35688    40258      39833      63596    105818    223262   541404
EXPENSES
Dlect Costs
Agriciitire                   11496     12079     16373     13801      19105     28451     37304     36185     74790
Factaoy                        3383      5887      5700      7385      8600      11399     11846     15138     36551
Workshop                       2865      3844      6100      6487      6552      20128     18028     23762     60113
Total Dlect Costs             17744     21810     28173     27673     34257     59978      67178     75085    171454
lndrect cost                   5581      6610      5913      7701      8666     29726      21429    3Y829      69135
Deprecialion                   2381      3018      1700      1924      3932      5803       7221      8094      8363
Total Operating Expenses      25706     31438     35786     37298     46855     95507      95828    118008    248952
OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS)   -3177         9127       -98      2960    -7022   -31911         9990    105254    292452
Capital Irterest                369       369       369       600       600        600       600       600       600
NET PROFIT (LOSS)           -3546       8758     -467       2360    -7622   -32511         9390    104654    291852
NET PROFIT (LOSS)
(Constantl 1993 Prices)     -7039     32212      -842       3287   -10320   -44930        6845      80165    291852
_     _   _    ___       L        I         I          ILI                     __ _ _ L
Souce: SPIC and SSPC
NB: Molasses tor the 4 companles aie sold together and thIe proceeds are eqLnlly distribLied among Ithel.  newvalta.*



Appetnlix 7
SUDAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENNAR: Income Statemerit (Profit & Loss Accourits)
(LS '000)
Year Ending 30 JAu             1985       1986      1987       1988      1989       1990      1991       1992      1993
INCOME
Stu jar Sale                  23084      37866     22955     35868      37533      83818    126650    205760    361822
Sales of Molasses etc          3375       2925      2925       3150      4108       9178     14011     69988    117487
Total Revenule                26459      40791     25880      39018     41641      92996    140661    275748    479309
EXPENSES
Dorecl Cosis
A(piciltLe                    7613       9178      9255      12507     21523      19032     31862      51266     68084
LO          Fact(ry                         5827      9512       7820     10922      16779     22736     29049      28493     52629
Li         WWikshop                         4153      6202       6638      9034       8598     13377      19099     33716     96035
Total Direct Costs            17593      24892     23713     32463      46900      55145     80010    113475    216748
Indiect cost                   4921       5195      5866      8245       7948      13446     11891     24468      30742
DeprecIalion                   1912       2786      2073      2588       3073      4745       6067      7214       9060
Total Operating Expenses      24426      32873     31652     43296      57921     73336      97968    145157    256550
OPERATING PROFIT (LOSS)       2033       7918     -5772    -4278    -16280        19660     42693    130591    222759
Capital Irterest               1419       1419      1419       1419      1419       1419      1419       1419      1419
NET PROFIT (LOSS)              614       6499     -7191     -5697    -17699       18241     41274    129172    221340
NET PROFIT (LOSS)
(Coislant 1993 PrIces)        1219     23903    -12965    -7936    -23964        25209     30089      98946    221340
___  H__I_                              I         I   _                   
Sonice: SPIC ani SSPC
NB: Molasses fol all Ihe 4 compa-ies are sold together arid the proceeds are eqLulIy distrilbtied arnong thein.  senrnr.wk3



SUDAN                            Appendix 8
Sugar Rehabilitation Project
Project Completion Report
Key Indicators
Average Exchange    Consumer Price         Inflators '
Year              Rates 3'           Indices b
LS/US$
1985                      4.5                45.4                 1.985
1986                      4.5                24.5                 3.678
1987                      4.5                50.0 @               1.803
1988                      4.5                64.7                 1.393
1989                      4.5                66.7                 1.354
1990                      4.5                65.2                 1.382
1991                      4.5                123.6                0.729
1992                     39.1               117.6                 0.766
1993                     117.8               90.1"                1.00
1994 (February)         340.0
a Derived from data provided by SPIC.
b' Per IMF International Financial Statistics.
To convert prices into 1993 constant terms.
" Figure not available. Miission estimate.
Based on average for 3 quarters to September 1993.
34



SUD AN                          Appendix 9
Sugar Rehabilitation Project
Project Completion Report
Calculation of Import Parity Price
Unit
FOB Europe (US$)                                    US$          244
W. sugar premium ($)                                US$           32
W. sugar price                                      US$           276
Transport & misc. charges (O)                       US$           43
C&F Port Sudan                                      US$           319
C&F Port Sudan                                       LS        108,460kb
Insurance etc. at 2.5%                               LS         13,015
Transport and storage Port Sudan-Karthoum            LS         12,800
Sub-total                         LS         134,275
Less transport factory-Khartoum                      LS         10,000
Ex-Factory import parity price                       LS        124,275
' Per World Bank price projections. This is 1995 price expressed in 1995 constant dollar
terms.
b' Converted at the exchange rate of US$1.00 = LS340.00.
35



Appcndix I()
aJDAN
SJGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT CCOPLETION REPORT
ECCNCMC ANALY9S
I-S MLLIONS)
PROJECT                      INVESrMENW                     REPLACEMENT         PRCOXICTION          TOTAL              INCREMENTAL         NET INCREM.
YEAR                          COSTS                         COSIS               COSTS              COSTS               BENEFITS             BENEFITS
1                         21.54                                                                 21t54                                  -21.54
2                         69.94                                              58.43              128.37           -2866.44            -2994.81
3                        190.21                                              89.33             279.54            -642402             -6703.56
4                        136.64                                             166.23              302.87          -10299.22           -10602.08
5                         52.06                                             152.88              204.94           -2390.12            -2595.05
6                         66.92                                             232.18              299.10            -106.71             -405.81
7                        436.52                                            569.06              1005.57            448508               3479.51
8                       2156.31                           2.04             1384.38            3542.73              2953.77             -588.96
9                                                         2.39             1460.50             1462.89             415625              2693.36
10                                                        0.11              1548.94             1549. 05           6020.38              4471.33
a)   11                                                         0.11             160790              1608.01             7263.13             5655.12
12                                                         1.70            1666.86              1668.57            8505 88              6837.31
1 3                                                       0.00              1666.86             1666.86             8505.88             6839.01
14                                                        0.00              166686              1666.86             8505.88             6839.01
I5                                                         0.00             1666.86             1666.86            8505.88              6839.01
16                                                       29.28              1668.86             1696.14            8505.88              680973
1 7                                                      37.46              1666.86            1704.32             8505.88              6801.56
18                                                       24.83              1660.88             1691.69            8505 88              6814.19
19                                                       18.83             1666.86             1685.70             8505 88             6820.18
20                                                        29.08             1666.86             1695.94             8505.88             680994
ECONCMC RATE OF RER  f9R   =                           12.17 %
Ncms
1. Sugr ProctIctjon has been nnrsvaey esimabd tostabillse at2500Co tns per annum from 19GB/97 onwards.
2. Costs and bnefits are expressed hi 1 93 ccrnsta  pices ushg  mnsLimer price Indlces showrn In Appendx 8.
3. It has been assumed tia hivecldes wil be reolaced every 7 yeers while equipmert wil be replaced every 15 years.
4. An eccrirnic price d LS 124275 per tIn of whdte sugar has been used. See Appendxg9 tir caklLatrmn.
5. Becausa d Ikely botteneds, partictary trelg  exchange to impcrt spareparM and agrIculital puts fuf e sugar pzroducton has been conservatively estimated to level off at 250000 tIons of sug
6 No recent crta on Drwerslon bctcs Is evallabe. The SAR cvWwSion factors do 0.75 ICr capital cos1 and 088 fcr incremenial cpEalng costs have thEetcre been used lcr this analyss.
7. The eccononmc Ile d the pro'ct has been assumed tobe b2 years as per SAR.
sudecon wlc









IBRD I17953
r  '5                                     j *                                      j5                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JANUARY 19a4
!             ~~~~ARAB   REPUBLIC    OF   EGYPT
Wod Holfo ..
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT 
Project  Locations                                                     /1             
\  q        X        N  O   R  F H  F R N            t   v 2 ~~~~~~~~'toho    1                 Poro Sudon
N  /    LEF\                 oy
j                                                 /      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~At b-or|   
d  DA RFUR                                       Omdwrm~~~~~~~~~~~&on,,KHARTOUM   3NEW HALFA  j        r
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 5                                         d                         Kossalo'p 
-15'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/  0   N   T H F R N                                         .              GUNEID '( 5
a   k                              \         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K O R D O F A NV    S        Wod Mon cll/ I             
9                      )                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dem Ed  SENNA  Ed Ged-ref    
I  (                     ~~~~~~~~~~El Foske,                                             \    :Sen;    
p  g  ~~~~~~~r)              2 ~~~~~~El Obe.d.,Ks QW W/SA)  L*Y                            <
u           .      Zo.Inge,                                                                  N l /
-n   SOUTHFRN  s   C           S O  U F H F R N            )      l~~Ed Doma- 
z ~~~~~~DA RFUIR                              \                 <oouoKoclg   
AFRICAN          j         )\XMolokolSlo                                                                                             3,DJ K 13ETEN
+Xs r ws 1iez szgoer rr  *  )   B    H R  *fZ           17\ r
rwer o_.~~~~~~~~~>e .f11_ / / < \ I Su~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sgo, Est.tes
.t-#  x-   -.         g   9\ /          \                             /                 O  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Selected Towns
to m -ss v Ew \ G t /A~~~~~~~ UH  YA                                              i                           e-oWS o --Palo Boundc,rles
R    E P .  13A7 4V                                                S ,\ Bo,
z~~~~~~~~~~~W S                     \-F WSfN 
)         H      E\   <-             <      f ~~~~~~~~ZOUA   -OARIA                f A S 7Ff RN                )5
,   e A   S    K F ,., m *   d  E 3r g [               ,Moar d,            JA  c OU A  F O RI/A
,       S LJ D A N   a   4iCT                    
AF CA     ,C                             
4                            -5A A,, f/Z A             IR E                                    
> ^.O  ,,aN:AF  8  ( (U G A N D A 3S



