Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4980-SU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SUDAN
SITAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 30, 1984
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Northern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be usti' by :cipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disch6sed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Sudanese Pound (LSd)    =           100 piastre
LSd 1.00                 =          US$ 0.77 (official)
LSd 1.00                 =          US$ 0.56 (open market)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Feddan (fd)              =          0.42 hectare (ha)
Kantar (seed cotton)    =           143 kilogram (kg)
Kilowatt (kw)            =          1.36 horsepower (hp)
Megawatt (mw)            =          1000 kilowatt (kw)
Gigawatt Hour (gwh)      =          1 million kilowatt hours
ABBREVIATIONS
ARC              Agriculture Research Corporation
ARP              Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
AWP              Annual Work Program
FRG              Federal Republic of Germa "'
FOP              Field Outlet Pipe
GOS              Government of Sudan
ICB              International Competitive Bidding
KfW              Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LCB              Local Competitive Bidding
MAT              Management Assistance and Training
ME               Monitoring and Evaluation
MOI              Ministry of Industry
MOAI             Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
MOAI(I)          MOAI Irrigation Department
MOFEP            Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MCCS             Ministry of Cooperation, Commerce and Supply
NEC              National Electricity Corporation
O&M              Operation and Maintenance
PCSI             Public Corporation for Sugar Trading
PPC              Project Procurement Committee
PPF              Project Preparation Facility
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
SCG              Sugar Consultative Group
SDC              Sugar and Distilleries Corporation
SOE              Statement of Expenditure
SPIC             Sugar Project Implementation Cell
TCD              Tons of Cane per Day
TSY              Tons of Sugar per Year
UNCDF            United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNIDO            United Nations Industrial Development
Organization
USAID            United States Agency for International
Development
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
SUGAR REHABILIiATION PROJECT
CREDIT & PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Democratic Republic of Sudan
Beneficiaries:    Ministry of Industry (HOI), and four sugar companies viz:
Guneid Sugar Co. Ltd., New Halfa Sugar Co. Ltd., Sennar
Sugar Co. Ltd., Assalaya Sugar Co. Ltd.
Amount:            IDA Credit SDR 56.4 million
(US$60 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Onlending Terms: US$22.8 million to be onlent to the four sugar companies
at 16 percent interest, 12 year repayment including 5
years grace, with the Government bearing the foreign
exchange risk; the balance being made available to MOI as
budgetary transfers to finance research, training and
technical assistance (US$10.7 million) and for equity
participation in the sugar companie-s(US$26.5 million).
Co-financing:     Federal Republic of Germany (KfW) - $17.3 million
equivalent on grant basis; Arab Fund for Economic and
Social Development - $47.2 million equivalent at 4
percent interest, 20 years repayment including 5 year
grace period; Saudi Fund - $23.5 million equivalent with
terms not yet settled.
Project Description:
Objective:        The project would, over a five year period, raise crop
yields and sugar production of the four sugar companies
through rehabilitation of estates and their associated
factories and strengthen the Borrower's management of the
sugar sector.
Components:       The project will include: (i) physical rehabilitation of
irrigation systems, machinery, equipment, and
infrastructure (ii) a set of measures to ensure that an
adequate and timely provision of production inputs takes
place, (iii) a phased program of institutional and
financial re-adjustments which will establish proper
production arrangements and incentives, (iv) research
facilities to find more suitable cane varieties, and (v)
training in technical. management and accounting skills.
Benefits:          The principal benefit would be net annual foreign
exchange savings of approximately US$67 million by the
end of the project in 1989. The project would also
create 1,150 permanent and 5,320 seasonal jobs, and would
increase the incomes and improve living conditions of
tenant farmers and laborers.
Risks:             Project risks include possible failure to make the
necessary pricing and policy adjustments, and possible
managerial and technical failures in implementation.
Provision has been made in the project design to minimize
these risks to the extent possible.
This document has a restictd distribution and may be used by reipients only in the perfornace of
their ofici dutie Its contents may not otherwise be disdosed vnthout World Bank authorization.



(ii)
US$ Millions
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS               Local      Foreign     Total
Agriculture
Agricultural Machinery         6.7        38.8       45.5
Vehicles                       0.3         1.4        1.7
Workshops                      1.6         5.1        6.7
Irrigation
Field Works                    3.7         8.1       11.8
Power Generation               2.5         8.7       11.2
Factory
Process Equipment              7.1        34.8       41.9
Civil Works                    1.8         6.7        8.5
Infrastructure
Communic., Elec. & Equip.      0.6         2.9        3.5
Buildings, Housing & Water    6.0          6.4       12.4
Support Services
Office Equipment               1.0         2.8        3.8
Tech. & Mgt. Services           -         22.4       22.4
Project Implementation Team a!    0.4          4.4        4.8
Training                           0.5         5.4        5.9
Research                           0.3         0.9        1.2
Total Project Costs               32.5       148.8      181.3
Of which:
Contingencies                  4.2       30.7        34.9
FINANCING PLAN
IDA Credit                          -         60.0       60.0
Other Cofinanciers
(a) Saudi Fund                  -        23.5        23.5
(b) Arab Fund                   -        47.2        47.2
(c) Germany (KfW)               -        17.3        17.3
(d) Government of Sudan       32.5        0.8        33.3
Total            32.5       148.8       181.3
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT
IDA/FY                 1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Annual                   11.5    21.2      14.1    7.7     4.7      0.8
Cumulative               11.5    32.7      46.8   54.5    59.2    60.0
RATE OF RETURN:               40%
MAP: IBRD No. 17953
a/ Includes $1,000,000 PPF advance.



(iii)
SUDAN
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page
I. INTRODUCTION
A.  General         .............................................    1
B.  Bank Group Role .......        ...............................    1
C.  The Sugar Sector ......        ...............................    2
D.  Rehabilitation Strategy and Project Rationale ........        4
II. THE PROJECT BACKGROUND
A.  Project Area and Entities *...........................    5
B.  Agriculture ..*...*....                   ...**.......    7
C.  Irrigation ....................................              10
D.  Factories ...................................                12
E.  Infrastructure .....        ........................*.........   14
F.  Sugarcane Research .. *..........*        ........... .....   15
G.  Manpower Development and Training ....................   16
H.  Management, Accounts and Audit         .......................   17
III.  THE PROJECT
A.  Project Description .........       .......................   17
B.  Project Components      ...................................   18
C.  Status of Engineering ...............................   23
D.  Cost Estimates ...............  ................    23
E.  Financing Plan ...............................    25
F* Procurement        ................................    27
G.  Disbursement ...............*...*.....*.....    29
H.  Environmental Impact ................................   29
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Role of Central Ministries   ...........................   30
B.  Funding of Project Entities and Audit ..... ...........   32
C.  The Sugar Companies *     .................................   34
D.  Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting ....       ..............    35
E.  Annual Work Program ............. ..*............ ......   35
Fe Mid-Term Review    ......................................   36



(iv)
Page
V. SUGAR PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICING
A.  Sugar Production         ....................................    36
B.  Marketing .............*     .............................    37
C. Pricing .................................                  38
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.  Financial Results for the Four Sugar Companieso......    40
B.  Other Project Entities' Financial Results ...........    42
C.  Government Cash Flows................................    42
D.  Guneid:  Financial Relations with Tenants............    43
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Production Benefits ..          ............  ...................   43
B.  Other Benefits  *.....................................    44
C.  Economic Analysis         ..................................    44
D.  Project Risks ...............................................  45
VIII.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS   ..................................    46
LIST OF TEXT TABLES
Table 1: Sudan: Sugar Production and Consumption
Table 2: Historical Sugar Cane Area and Yields
Table 3: Characteristics of Irrigation Systems
Table 4: Project Cost Summary
Table 5: Project Financing Plan
Table 6: Project Financing Package by Expenditure Category
Table 7: Project Procurement Arrangements by Expenditure Category
Table 8: Output of the Four Sugar Companies - With and Without
Project
Table 9: Sugar Producer and Consumer Price Levels
Table 10: Financial Performance of Companies



(v)
ANNEXES TO STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Annex
I       Summary Cost Tables
2       Current Financial Prices
3       Financial Analysis - Supplementary Tables
3.1    Estimated Price Contingency and Foreign Exchange Rates
3.2    Income and Expenditure Accounts - by Company
3.3    Projected Cash Flows Under Project - by Company
3.4    Balance Sheets by Company
3.5    Structure of Debt - by Company
3.6    Government Incremental Cash Flows under Project
3.7    Government Incremental Forcign Exchange Earnings/Savings under
Project
4       Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
5       Agricultural Data - Supplementary Tables
5.1    Sugar Production, Area and Yields (Historical)
5.2    Sugar Production, Area and Yields (Projections, with and without
Project)
5.3    Sudan - Sugar Balance
6       Sugar Cane Research Program
7       Annual Work Program
8       Water Demand and Availability
9       Details of Technical Services provided under the Project
10      Training
11      Management Assistance and Training Component
12      Arrangements for Project Procurement
13      Documents Available on Project Files
CHARTS
I.    Sudan Sugar Industry - Organization
II.   The Sugar Companies - Organization and Management Assistance
and Training Component
III.  Implementation Schedule
MAPS
Map of Sudan showing Project Locations (IBRD No. 17953)



CHAPTER 1
INTRODUCTION
A. General
1.01      Sudan has a population of 19 million people, and a land area of
2.4 million square kilometers. It is primarily an agricultural country,
with agriculture providing a livelihood for 80% of the population, and
agricultural produce accounting for 40% of GDP and 95% of exports. The
most notable feature of past agricultural development has been its
dualism. Irvestment has been heavily concentrated in modern sector
irrigation and rainfed mechanized farming in the east-central region with
cotton, groundnut, wheat, sorghum and sugarcane being important crops. The
traditional sector, with significantly less government assistance, has
contributed to exports of livestock, groundnuts, gum arabic and sesame.
There is little industrial activity with manufacturing contributing only 5%
of GDP.
1.02      Sudan is currently facing a difficult economic situation.  The
principal causes are an ambitious investment program during the early 1970s
which, largely financed by foreign borrowing, led to rising debt service
obligations; inadequate domestic resource mobilization; a large fall in
exports caused by deterioration of productive capacity in the irrigation
sub-sector during the seventies; and sharp increases in the cost of fuel.
The net result of these changes is that annual imports now equal three
times the value of exports. Economic recovery must thus be predicated on a
reduction in imports, coupled with a concerted effort to increase exports.
The economic recovery program concentrates government resources on the
rehabilitation of existing capital investments, particularly those which
can contribute to expanded export earnings or import savings, while
restraining investments in new projects. A fuller description of the
economic recovery program is given in the economic memorandum entitled
'Sudan Pricing Policies and Structural Balances" (Report No. 4528a-SU)
issued on November 10, 1983.
B. Bank Group Role
1.03      The Bank Group strategy in Sudan has been to encourage the
Government to undertake a broad program of economic reform aimed at
addressing the structural imbalances in the economy. The economic recovery
program (para. 1.02) was drawn up by the Government with assistance from
the Bank and the IMF and formed the basis for a Consultative Group meeting
in January 1983 and a Standby Agreement with the IMF in February 1983. At
the project level, IDA has continued to emphasize the rehabilitation of
irrigated agriculture, Sudan's major export earner, plus improvements in
infrastructure needed to service the agricultural sector. Irrigation
rehabilitation projects have been effective in providing badly needed spare
parts and replacement equipment and improving management.  These projects
have also encouraged the Government to take some important steps toward
improving incentives for production through better crop prices and cost
recovery arrangements for the irrigated schemes.



- 2 -
1.04      Gross commitments to Sudan to date total US$953.4 million
including $33 million from IFC. There have been eight loans (two on Third
Window terms) and 35 credits for a total of 43 projects. Twenty projects
are uwder implementation. Agricultural Credits form a large proportion of
total Bank lending to Sudan, averaging half the lending through the 1970's,
including seven irrigation projects, three rainfed mechanized farming
projects, four smallholder development projects, a livestock marketing
project, an agricultural research project, two Agricultural Rehabilitation
Projects and an agricultural credit project. Projects in other sectors
include three power projects, nine transport projects, three education
projects, two technical assistance projects and two industrial credit
projects.
1.05      Project implementation in Sudan has faced bottlenecks in a number
of areas. There has been difficulty getting key materials such as cement,
fuel and imported farm inputs on time and in sufficient quantities because
of foreign exchange shortages and transport difficulties. The continuing
drain of skilled manpower to the Middle East oil rich countries, where job
opportunities are better, takes its toll on effective preparation and
implementation of projects. Disbursements have been slower than scheduled,
closing dates have frequently been extended, and gestation periods have
been longer than expected, leading to a lag in benefits. The Bank is
addressing these problems as part of its on-going policy dialogue with the
Government, and Bank projects incorporate specific mechanisms to overcome a
number of these bottlenecks.
C. The Sugar Sector
1.06      Table 1 summarizes sugar production and consumption in the Sudan.
Table 1
SUDAN: Sugar Production and Consumption
Domestic Production (T ns)    ,           Consu-
Joint            mption
Public Sector              Sectorl          ('000
Year      Guneid  New Halfa  Sennar  Assalaya Kenana l/ Total       tons)
Commissioned   1962      1966      1977     1979      1979
Capacity      60,000   60,000   110,000  110,000  330,000  670,000       -
Production
1976/77       55,100   57,170    26,460       -         -    138,730    449
1979/80       29,890   43,050    30,000    7,560   20,000  130,500    425
1980/81       29,600   36,040    26,110    8,570  150,000  250,320    438
1981/82       15,740   35,860    22,330      -      175,000  248,930    450
1982/83       20,310   38,080    40,600   31,630  230,000  360,620    460
a/ Only a portion of Kenana's production is available for domestic
consumption, since the terms of Kenana's agreement with Arab donors specify
the export of 150,000 tons of sugar per annum to these countries.



- 3 -
During the last crop year, Sudan produced about 360,000 tons of sugar at
one joint sector and four public sector factories. This is an l.mprovement
over the very poor production figures of the last few yezars, but is still
far below both the level of domestic demand and the poteiitial level of
production.
1.07      The sugar sector in Sudan is characterized by extreuaely high
consumption levels -- in the neighborhood of 24 kg. per capitii per annum,
as opposed to an Africa-wide average rate of about 15 kg. per capita.
Demand appears to have been growing at about 5% per anntum, arid is
concentrated heavily in the Khartoum region. The high dieman d has led to
large sugar imports in recent years, reaching 12% of total imports by value
in 1981/82. Unlike in other countries, sugar in the Sudan -LS consumed
mainly by household units, with only about 15% going to industrial users.
Although no reliable estimates of price elasticity are avai lable, it
appears that the propensity to consume is severely rest ricl:ed by income,
and the rate of growth in demand is thus expected to sJ.ow somewhat in the
coming years.
1.08      The Government started domestic production iri t'ne early 1960's
with the development of two sugar estates at Guneid anel New Halfa, followed
by the establishment of two further estates at Sennar anel Assalaya in the
late 1970's. In addition, a large joint sector sugar scneme et Kenana was
completed in 1979. Between them these five estates have the capacity to
produce 670,000 tons of sugar annually. Although the tlio established
estates showed early promise in the 1960's, production 'aas fallen off
significantly over the last five years; the two newer public plants have
never really been completed, and produce only a fra :ticrn of their rated
output; and the joint-venture project at Kenana has been slow in getting
started. The net result is that total output in 1982/83, while amost 45%
higher than in 1981/82, was only just over 50% of procluction capacity.
Detailed production data for the individual schemes is presented in Chapter
II and in Annex 5.1.
1.09      The principal reasons for poor performance of the public sector
units have been: (i) the low prices paid to producin.g units, leading to
inability to purchase essential inputs and maintain assets; (ii)
insufficient supplies of irrigation water, and inadequate provision of
fertilizers, pesticides, and other cultivation inpr.ts, coupled with the
utilization of inappropriate cane varietiesz (iii) shortages of manpower
and servicable equipment for cultivation andi harvesting; (iv) lack of
foreign exchange, contributing to shortages of spe.re parts, and poor
maintenance of agricultural machinery and factory equipment; (v) loss of
skilled and experienced staff due to poor working, conditions; (vi)
inadequate management, financial and accounting usystems, and; (vii)
impediments to factory operations at Sennar and Assalaya caused by poor
design and construction of factory foundations. Some of these bottlenecks,
such as the lack of foreign exchange, fuel short:ages, and the scarcity of
skilled manpower, are nationwide in scope and $pply to all undertakings in
the Sudan; however many of them can be overc:ome by a combination of capital
injections and revised institutional arrangements.



- 4 -
D. Rehabilitation Strategy and Project Rationale
1.10      A Bank study entitled 'Sudan Export Development Study" Report
No. 4263-SU (ilecembar 1983) has found that sugar is the only existing
industry in whtich Susan enjoys a comp.arative advantage for export. Yet
because of a hostile! policy environment and decapitalization, the domestic
sugar industry is psrforming far below capacity, resulting in the need for
significant sugar iziports. Rehabilitation of the sugar industry therefore
plays an important vole in the overall economic recovery protram.  There
are three main t:hrusts to the sugar rehabilitation program: (i) a physical
rehabilitation of ma:hinery, equipment, and infrastructure, (ii) a set of
measures to ensu:re tlhat adequate and timely provision of production inputs
takes place, and (ii::.) a phased program of institutional and financial
re-adjustments which will establish proper production arrangements and
incentives. In acidition, research efforts will be intensified in a drive
to find more suitable cane varieties, and further work will be undertaken
to improve technic.al training and management and accounting capabilities.
1.11      The physical rehabilitation program is aimed at compensating for
insufficient maintenance and lack of spares in the past, and at replacing
obsolete equipment.  Cultivation and harvesting equipment will be repaired
or replaced, and flfe.ts augmented with more suitable equipment where
necessary. A package of irrigation works will be undertaken to improve the
efficiency of water dtistribution. Obsolete and worn-out factory equipment
will be replaced at the two older plants, while at Sennar and Assalaya
unfinished factory works will be completed to enable the plants to operate
at capacity.
1.12      The most imp. rtant element in improving the provision of inputs
is the revision of sug&tr pricing; by increasing the price paid to producers
the Government will ensure that the schemes have sufficient cash to
purchase necessary supp.'Lies of fuels, fertilizers, spare parts and
replacements. In addit2 on a number of specific steps will be taken under
the auspices of the project in order to improve the physical supply of
inputs; these include the provision of auxillary power supplies to ensure
the regular supply of el#tctricity to pump irrigation water, and the
improvement of maintenance workshop facilities.
1.13      Some progress hits already been made in the revision of policy and
institutional arrangements. In a move designed to alleviate cash-flow
problems facing the public sugar units, the gross producer price of sugar
was raised from LSd 135 to LSd 250 per ton in 1982, and again to LSd 400
per ton in 1983. In addition the Government has established (April 1984)
the four units as independent companies under the Companies Ordinance
(1925) with scope for eventual privatization. During the course of the
project, prices will be furthler revised annually and maintained at import
parity levels, and the individua21 companies will be given progressively
greater autonomy to make production and marketing decisions. The
establishment of the industry on a commercial basis will lead to financial
self-sufficiency and to the evolution of proper production incentives.
With the creation of four autono'nous companies, the units will be free to
reorganize in order to streamline management and operations; already
substantial progress has been made towards designing a salary and incentive



- 5 -
package to attract qualified staff. The GOS has agreed to consider
decontrol of the marketing of sugar once domestic production reaches
satisfactory levels. The Government will also set up a Sugar Board under
MOI to advise on sugar policy, to monitor the health of the industry and
plan for its further development, and to coordinate the activities of the
various agencies involved with the industry. A Consultative Group
comprising of governmental and industry representatives would also be
established, which would be serviced by the Sugar Board.
1.14      Already with limited injections of bilateral aid, there are some
signs of improvement, as yields at Sennar and Assalaya have risen
substantially over the last year and total output of the four plants has
increased by 75% from the low of the 1981/82 season. During their early
years, the two schemes at Guneid and New Halfa have demonstrated that high
yields are possible using the existing land and factory layouts, and it is
expected that, with the rehabilitation project, the Industry will operate
productively and profitably. By the end of the project period, production
should be up to 316,000 tons of sugar per year from the four companies.
1.15      IDA Involvement In sugar rehabilitation is warranted because the
project objectives support and form an integral part of overall Bank
strategy in contributing to forelgn exchange savlngs by revitalizing
existing industries in the Sudan. The participation of IDA allows the
Government access to the large amounts of capital required for
rehabilitation, and facilitates the arrangement of cofinancing. The
complexity of the project also mitigates in favor of Bank Involvement, as
the project requires technical and policy support as well as a number of
institutional and policy adjustments.
1.16      The present project was prepared by Tate and Lyle Technical
Services Ltd. (U.K.) and preparation was financed by IDA under Technical
Assistance Credits I and II (Cr. 614-SU and Cr. 1153-SU). Further
preparation and pre-implementation work is being carried out by a Sugar
Project Implementation Cell (SPIC), assisted by Bank Agricultural
Development Service staff and technical assistance from John H. Payne Inc.
(USA) financed under an IDA Project Preparation Facility. This report Is
based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission to Sudan In
September/October 1983. The mission consisted of J. Shivakumar, C. Smith,
A. Raza, and J. Smith. The Arab Fund for Social and Economic Development,
Kuwait, KfW of the Federal Republic of Germany, and the Saudi Fund, Riyadh,
are also participating in the project.
CHAPTER II
The Project Background
A. Project Area and Entities
Climate, Topography and Soils
2.01      The four sugar estates, Assalaya, Guneid, New Halfa and Sennar,
are located in central Sudan where conditions are favorable for sugarcane



- 6 -
production provided irrigation water is available (see Map IBRD No.
17953). There is almost no variation in micro-climates between the four
sugar estates. The climate is semi-arid with a short rainy season from
July to September in which 85Z of the annual rain falls. There is a cool
dry winter from November to February and a hot summer from April to June.
Mean maximum temperatures are 33°C in January and 41°C in May, while mean
minima are 14°C in January and 25°C in June. The average annual rainfall
varies from about 450 -m in the south to about 300 mm in the north of the
area and varies widely from year to year.
2.02      The soils are fairly uniform, cracking, self-mulching clays which
have a loose granular surface structure. Although the organic content is
low, the physical properties and behavior of these fertile impermeable
clays under irrigation make them well suited to good yields. Despite 60
years of irrigation, salinity is not a major problem.
The Production Units
2.03      Each of the four sugar production units covered by the project
consist of a sugarcane estate served by an extensive irrigation system, a
sugar factory, and a fleet of agricultural machinery for cultivation,
harvesting and transport of cane. Each unit is physically self-contained,
with central administration, offices, maintenance and support services,
housing and sociai services. The schemes typically employ between 1,300
and 2,000 permanent employees, although the size of the workforce doubles
with the employment of seasonal labor during the harvest months.
2.04      The Guneid sugar production unit consists of 37,000 feddans
located 150 km south of Khartoum on the east bank of the Blue Nile. Unlike
the other schemes, Guneid operates on a tenant basis, with 2,364 tenant
farmers cultivating individual tenancies. The New Halfa scheme is located
about 400 km east of Khartoum - 21,500 feddan are currently planted with
cane, although 40,000 feddan are available. The two newer estates are
located close together at Sennar and Assalaya, about 260 km south of
Khartoum, and consist of 29,000 and 27,300 feddan respectively. Sennar is
located on the Blue Nile and Assalaya on the White Nile. The four units
together should be capable of producing 340,000 tons of sugar per year
(tsy); the design capacity of the older factories at Guneid and New Halfa
is 60,000 tsy each, while Sennar and Assalaya are both rated at 110,000
tsy.
Institutional Arrangements
2.05      Responsibility for sugar policy and for sugar sector operations
in the Sudan is divided among a number of Ministries. Operation of the
four government-owned production units is the responsibility of the
Hinistry of Industry (MOI). The Ministry of Commerce, Cooperation and
Supply (MCCS) determines regional sugar consumption quotas, and the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MOFEP) sets producer and
consumer prices, distribution margins, import quantities, and provides
finance for the four sugar estates. M4OFEP also controls sugar marketing
through the Public Corporation for Sugar Trading (PCST). PCST handles the
purchase of sugar from the factories, storage and distribution of sugar,
and international procurement.



2.06      Other Ministries involved in the sugar industry include:  the
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (MOAI), which is responsible for
operation and maintenance of irrigation supply systems at the four estates
and for sugarcane research activities conducted by the Agricultural
Research Corporation; and the Ministry of Public Service and Administrative
Reform, which sets the terms and conditions of sugar industry employees.
2.07      Until 1981 the four public sector sugar units were run by the
Sugar and Distilleries Corporation (SDC), a public body responsible to OI
which provided such centralized services as procurement, training,
accounting, and budgetting. In an effort to decentralize the industry the
Corporation was dissolved and authority was given for the formation of four
autonomous companies. These companies have been formally established under
the Companies Ordinance and will operate as wholly self-contained
entities, with only sector policy issues such as pricing, taxation, and
levels of imports and export being determined centrally. Some experienced
staff of SDC now function as a unit in OI dealing with the sugar
industry. This unit services a Sugar Project Implementation Cell (SPIC),
which has responsibility for policy advice and strategic planning in
relation to the rehabilitation program, and for supervision of project
preparation and implementation.
B. Agriculture
Production and Yields
2.08      The quantities of total cane grown by the public sector have
declined over the last five years, despite the fact that a new estate at
Assalaya became operational during that period. Table 2 below shows the
trends of agricultural production at the four estates since 1976/77.
Table 2
Historical Sugarcane Area and Yields
1976/77       1978/79       1980/81      1982/83
Guneid
Area (fd)                  20,300        18,960        18,760       12,630
Avg. Yield (t/fd)            26.1          21.9          18.5         17.6
Cane Prod.(tons)         529,580        415,975      346,240       221,700
New Halfa
Area (fd)                  21,165        20,070        15,360       19,650
Avg. Yield (t/fd)            34.4          34.5          28.6         27.0
Cane Prod.(tons)          652,360       691,295       439,390      476,540
Sennar
Area (fd)                  12,510        10,475        14,825       18,065
Avg. Yield (t/fd)            30.1          22.2          22.8         25.6
Cane Prod.(tons)          376,900       232,878       338,516      463,760
Assalaya
Area (fd)                    -             -            3,490        9,300
Avg. Yield (t/fd)            -             -             26.7         32.0
Cane Prod.(tons)             -             -           93,000      297,720



-8-
At the two established estates the area producing cane fell by 18 percent
between the 1976/77 and the 1980/81 seasons, while the tonnage of cane
produced declined even more substantially - by almost 33% - as a result of
reduced yields of cane per unit area, from an average of 30.7 tons/feddan
in 1976/77 to 24.2 tons/feddan in 1980/81. The total quantity of sugar
produced by the established units has been even further reduced by declines
in the efficiency of extraction in the factory processing of cane.
Detailed production and yield figures for each of the estates are presented
in Annex 5.1.
2.09      The deterioration in yields is a result of unsuitable cane
varieties, inadequate power for pumping irrigation water, inefficient
in-field distribution of water, shortages of fertilizer, and shortages of
manpower and equipment for both cultivation and harvesting. The improved
performance during the 1982/83 season is a result of new equipment
injections from the United Nations Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) and
USAID, and of more consistent power supply from the national grid.
Cane Varieties
2.10      The only cane varieties grown commercially are NCo31O and Co527.
Both are susceptable to smut disease and both flower (or tassle)
profusely. Tasseling constrains yields since it limits planting time and
restricts the duration of the effective growing season. Growth stops once
cane flowers -- since this occurs at the same time each year cane must be
planted at a particular time, generally in October-December, in order to
maximize yields. Smut also contributes to low yields and high production
costs. The incidence of smut, which primarily effects ratoons, limits the
production cycle to one or two ratoon crops, thus reducing output per unit
area planted. Both smut and tasseling necessitate an ambitious planting
program with consequent requirements for more cultivation equipment than
would otherwise be required.
2.11      There is a need to replace the present commercial varieties with
more suitable varieties if high production levels are to be achieved. Four
varieties which are shy-flowering and which exhibit resistance to smut are
currently being bulked up. Commercial planting of these varieties is
commencing in 1983/84 for use as seed cane and for milling tests next year.
2.12      Once the shy-flowering varieties have become successfully
established, consideration can be given to extending the planting period,
thereby reducing equipment and labor requirements. It must however be
pointed out that none of the new varieties have been cultivated extensively
under Sudanese conditions.
Land Preparation and Planting
2.13      The planting cycle consists of a year of plant cane, followed by
two years of ratoon. The area not planted to cane is fallowed. Cover
crops are not grown at present, and land typically lies fallow for one to
three years before replanting to cane. For the future, a 3-year cane cycle
is proposed followed by a legume cover in year 4 and a fallow period in
year 5. In recent years lack of adequate serviceable equipment has



- 9 -
restricted the area of land prepared and planted, and this in turn has
increased the proportion of ratoon cane and reduced average yields. The
heavy clay soils may not favor the prolongation of high yielding ratoon:;,
due to the need for ploughing.
2.14      Overall, cultivation work has been untimely and of poor quality.
For example, hilling-up operations have frequently been delayed until c:ane
is taller than desirable, and have been carried out in a way which detracts
from irrigation efficiency and the even distribution of water.
2.15      All steps in the cultivation process have been adversely effected
by shortages of machinery spare parts and maintenance, of production
inputs, of labor and of adequate management and supervisory staff.
Provision of Inputs
2.16      Deficiencies in the supply of water, fertilization, and weeding
have all contributed to significantly reduced yields. In the very dry
climate of central Sudan cane growth is critically dependent on irrigation
water. Irrigation at all the schemes has been inadequate due to shortages
of power for pumping water and due to sub-optimal irrigation practices.
Fertilizer has not always been available at the right time or in the
quantities required. Only nitrogen is applied at the present, and there is
a need for field trials and soils and tissue analysis to determine the
optimum levels of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium fertilizers to be
applied on a routine basis. Pre-emergence weed control in plant cane by
the application of atrazine/aneytrene herbicides provides good control for
several weeks;subsequent plant field and all ratoon field weed control work.
is carried out by hand labor. Labor requirements are not met and weed
growth in many fields is largely uncontrolled, resulting in competition for
fertilizer and water and reduced cane yields. Consideration should be
given to the mechanized application of herbicides and pesticides throughou-t
the plant cycle.
Cane Harvesting and Transport
2.17      Cane is currently cut mainly by hand, loaded onto trailers by
mechanized grab-loaders, and hauled to the factories by a fleet of
tractors. This system has suffered from shortages of labor and from
unavailability of equipment. The overriding problem has been the inability
of the sugar estates to attract cane cutters, especially during the early
part of the season when sugar yields are highest. During these months
there is strong competition for casual agricultural labor for the
harvesting of dry land crops. Low pay and poor conditions have generally
discouraged laborers from coming to the estates. In addition, the quality
of cane cutting has generally been poor, due to poor equipment and poor
training, and efforts to mobilize seasonal labor have been inadequate.
2.18      The alternative to manual cutting is mechanized harvesting,
although there are severe drawbacks to mechanization: yields are red:uced
due to cane and sugar losses; accurate field layouts are required,
necessitating expensive realignment of furrows; and extensive support and
maintenance services are required.  The overriding consideration is cast --



- 10 -
'nitia I estimates indicate that mechanized harvesting costs 30% more
thanttLe manual cutting, a differential which will be exacerbated in the
Sudan by the scarcity of fuel and of foreign exchange for spare parts. The
solut ion is to provide a package of incentives to attract and retain
labo-;ers for cane cutting while accepting that it may be necessary to
prov ide n minimum capability for mechanized harvesting during periods of
acut :e lator shortage.
2.1 9      There are some shortages of suitable equipment to transport cane
frc3m the fields to the factories, although the primary problem is that
eq uipment is in poor repair, or temporarily out of service due to lack of
m; intenance and spare parts.
C. Irrigation
Gene: -al Description
2.20      All of the sugar estates rely on irrigation systems to supply
wate r for their crops; at Sennar and Guneid water is pumped from the Blue
Nile , and at Assalaya from the White Nile, while the New Halfa estate is
fed by gravity from the Atbara river. In all cases the water is of good
qua:Lity, and is available in sufficient quantities throughout the year from
Sud. in's share of Nile waters under the 1958 agreement with Egypt. Water
dem and and availability are described more fully in Annex 8. The
irr igation systems at the four schemes were designed and established by the
Min.istry of Irrigation. The principal characteristics of each of the
irr-igation systems are summarized in Table 3 below:
Table 3
Characteristics of Irrigation Systems
Guneid   New Halfa   Sennar   Assalaya
To tal C3ommand Area (f d)            37,000      45,000    29,000    27,000
Net Mill Cane Area (fd) a/            23,000      19,000    25,000    24,000
Arinual Irrigation Demand (MCM) a/        332        249       344       330
M:ax Mont:hly Demand (MCM) a/              32         25        34         32
G-ross Irrigation Efficiency (M)          70          75        75        75
Peak Pumping Requirement (m3/sec)a/    14.4           -       16.5       16.0
Installed1 Pump Capacity (m3lsec)        32.0         -       35.4      30.0
Elumping lower Demand (Gwh) a/           20.0         -         24         45
}'eak Power Demand (mw) a/                3.0         -        3.6        7.0
a/ After Eull rehabilitation.
Pumping S-rstems
2.21     L'he installed pumping capacities in the project area consist of
eight units totalling 32.0 m3/sec at Guneid, four units totalling 35.4
m3/sec at Sennar and five units totalling 30.0 m3/sec at Assalaya. About



- 11 -
60% of the pumping capacity at Guneid and Sennar is earmarked for the sugar
estates. All the pumps, except for two at Guneid, are electrically driven
and power for these is obtained from the National Electricity Corporation
(NEC) Grid. There have been serious shortages of electric power in the
past, and this has been a principle cause of poor cane production. As cane
production is highly dependent upon a regular and adequate supply of
irrigation water, the installation of auxillary power generating capacity
1/ by the sugar companies to secure irrigation supplies is clearly
needed. In addition, the two diesel pumping units at Guneid and the
pumping plant at Sennar need replacement.
Irrigation Systems
2.22      Water, conveyed by the main canal from the head works, is
distributed through a system of major and minor canals and water courses
known as Abu Ishreen (Abu XX) and Abu Sita (Abu VI).2/ The sugar estates
operate the minor canals and also carry out the operation and maintenance
(O&M) of Abu XX and Abu VI. Maintenance of the major canals and operation
as well as maintenance of the rest of the system is the responsibility of
NOAI(I) which recovers the costs of the services from the sugar estates.
2.23      The irrigation systems at Guneid, Sennar and Assalaya are
designed and operated on the basis of night storage in minor canals and day
field applications, while the New Halfa scheme has no provision for night
storage in minor canals and is irrigated on a 24 hour continuous basis.
However, night irrigation has been used also on the other three schemes due
to shortages of irrigation water because of power failures. The system
can deliver the present water budget and is adequate to meet peak
irrigation demands. Backlogs of silt have accumulated in some minor canals
but these can be cleared under the normal maintenance systems by MOAI(I).
The distribution system allows precise control and measured supply to minor
canals, but the field outlet pipes (FOP) serving Abu XX are un-metered and
this results in erratic distribution of water to fields. The drainage
system maintained by MOAI(I) serves only to remove the surface run-off.
There are no field drains. This design reduces irrigation wastage and is
widely prevalent in Sudan.
On-Farm Water Management
2.24      The topography and soils are well suited to efficient irrigation
and there is no need for sub-surface drainage. The existing field layout,
except at Assalaya, is very similar to that at Gezira. The area is
typically divided into 90 fd fields. Row lengths are usually 75 to 100 m
and are laid out along the contour, providing short-furrow irrigation
within a basin system. The field layout at Assalaya is slightly different,
with furrows running downhill but with similar irrigation procedures. As
already mentioned, distribution of water amongst the fields is erratic due
11 Power requirements at each station are given in Annex 8.
2/ Arabic: literally "father of 20" and "father of six' respectively for
courses governing 20 or 6 field channels.



- 12 -
to lack of measuring and control devices at offtakes. Inadequate furrow
shaping is observed in many fields. Introduction of longer furrows
irrigating in the direction of prevailing slopes would (i) facilitate
mechanization and (ii) reduce irrigation labor requirements. This is being
done on a limited scale at New Halfa. However, a change to long-furrow
irrigation would require remodelling of in-field irrigation systems,
significant changes in irrigation practices and a substantial training
program, and should therefore be introduced gradually and only after
demonstrating and evaluating the new practices on a pilot basis.
D. Factories
General Considerations
2.25      The factories at the four sugar units are generally well designed
and are of sufficient capacity to produce the quantities of sugar
required. While each factory has its own particular problems there are two
constraints which effect all four of the plants, specifically: (i) lack
of foreign exchange for the purchase of spare parts, and the slow delivery
of spares, resulting in poor maintenance of operating systems; and (ii)
insufficient and inconsistent supply of cane during the crushing season,
due to the shortage of care cutters and inadequate transport equipment,
resulting in expensive stop-start operations. Specific problems relating
to factory efficiency, process equipment and factory superstructure are
detailed in the following sections.
Guneid
2.26      The Guneid factory is 20 years old, it has a design capacity of
4,000 tons per day cane (tcd) throughput, and a rated annual output of
60,000 tons of sugar (tsy). The factory has always suffered from poor cane
supply and this has limited production over the years. The peak
performance was achieved in 1976/77 when 55,076 tons of sugar were
produced. Since then production has fallen, and although this has been
mainly due to cane shortage, deterioration of factory equipment has also
contributed to reduced efficiency and increased sugar losses. Although
well laid out, parts of the factory are in a bad state of repair due to the
lack of spare parts and of funds to replace obsolete and worn-out
equipment. Factory efficiency has now fallen to the stage where 10% or
more of the recoverable sugar is lost because of: (i) poor milling
efficiency due to worn rollers and poor operation of hydraulic equipment,
(ii) sugar losses in press mud due to the poor condition of vacuum filters,
(iii) high undetermined losses due to stop/start operation caused by the
lack of cane and poor cane storage systems, and (iv) poor molasses
exhaustion due to non-operation of the crystallizer cooling elements. In
addition, bagasse storage is inadequate, laboratory and workshop equipment
is inadequate, and the factory roof leaks, resulting in some damage to
machinery.



- 13 -
New Halfa
2.27      The New Halfa factory was built in 1966.  It was originally
designed to mill 4,000 tcd and to produce 60,000 tsy. In the mid-seventies
it was expanded to a rated 5,000 tcd (90,000 tsy) but the equipment was
never completely installed; in particular, the additional boiler has not
been completed due to lack of funds. At present, therefore, although most
of the factory stations are capable of a throughput of 5,000 tcd, there is
insufficient steam to operate in excess of 4,000 tcd.
2.28      The factory consistently produced about 60,000 tsy until the
mid-seventies, but annual production has fallen steadily since then, with
only 38,080 tons of sugar produced in 1982/83. As at the other estates,
this decline has largely been due to poor cane supply, but factory
efficiency has also dropped for essentially the same reasons as it has at
Guneid: worn mill rollers, incorrect grooving, corroded vacuum filters,
and inoperational crystalizer cooling elements. In addition, the fifth
boiler needs completing, a new cane-knife motor is required, the roof
leaks, bagasse storage is poor, and assorted minor upgrading works are
required.
Sennar
2.29      The Sennar factory is only six years old and has a crushing
capacity of 6,500 tcd. Although it was designed to produce 110,000 tsy,
production has not yet exceeded 41,000 tons. From the start production has
been effected by equipment short-comings and process difficulties, and
there has also been a problem of unstable foundations, resulting in heaving
of floors, cracking of walls and shifting of certain equipment. The most
notable problems have been: (i) Inadequate mill roller bearings, (ii)
unsuitable disc-type colling elements in  C  massecuite crystalizers, (iii)
distorted turbo-alternator rotors, (iv) problems with boiler operations,
(v) sugar contamination in the condensate, (vi) difficulties in the
refining process and (vii) problems with massecuite distribution gutters.
2.30      Many of these difficulties have not yet been resolved, and Sennar
gives the impression that commissioning has never really been completed.
Concurrent with factory problems has been the shortage of cane. Because of
this there has been little incentive to complete the factory quickly.
2.31      The overall recovery of pol in cane has barely exceeded 60X at
Sennar. Abnormally high losses of potentially recoverable sugar have
occurred at all process stages, and there have been significant further
losses because of frequent interruptions caused by lack of cane, process
hold-ups and boiler problems.
2.32      The equipment itself is in good repair, although spare parts have
been in short supply. The factory has been generously designed and once
teething problems have been ironed out, the foundations repaired and
certain equipment and process short-comings corrected, there is no reason
why it should not achieve the rated 6,500 tcd.



- 14 -
Assalaya
2.33      The Assalaya factory was first commissioned for the 1979/80 crop,
and is designed to process 6,500 tcd for a total annual output of 110,000
tsy. From its inception, problems have beset Assalaya, culminating in the
factory remaining non-operational in 1981/82. These problems can be
summarized as follows: (i) commissioning was delayed for a year due to
inadequate boiler refractory design, the furnaces having to be rebuilt;
(ii) a general shortage of cane due to various field problems and lack of
irrigation water; (iii) problems with the ground floor shifting and heaving
and the inadequate design of foundations for these conditions; (iv)
shortage of spare parts for the factory; (v) unsuitable or inadequate
equipment for certain stations, notably the mill roller bearings, "C"
crystalizers and turbo-alternator rotors; (vi) trouble with boiler
operations, and; (vii) a shortage of trained staff.
2.34      The shortage of cane has meant that the incentive to complete the
factory quickly has been lacking. However, it appears that most of the
major equipment shortcomings have been corrected, and the full crop was
crushed in the 1982/83 season when 31,630 tons of sugar were produced.
There remains the problem of ground shifting and a number of other
difficulties of a less serious nature. In addition, the longer operating
experience with a practically identical plant at Sennar has shown up a
number of process problems likely to occur at Assalaya, which should be
corrected at the outset.
E. Infrastructure
Equipment Workshops
2.35      The general state of repair of agricultural machinery is
extremely poor due to ineffectual workshop management, a low standard of
mechanic skills, and a serious lack of spare parts. There is a need to
rehabilitate existing equipment and to improve workshop and maintenance
services.
2.36      The workshops at Guneid and Sennar require slight improvements.
At New Halfa the workshop is located in a sugar store building which is
quite inadequate, while the workshop at Assalaya suffers from ground heave
and requires a new floor. At both New Halfa and Assalaya there is a
serious lack of service equipment and a shortage of tools.
2.37      At all of the workshops there is a lack of management skills at
the senior levels, and a shortage of well trained mechanics. Recordkeeping
is also generally poor relative to the magnitude of the operations carried
out.
Estate Infrastructure
2.38      Access roads to the factories at Gunied and Sennar are not paved
and become flooded sometimes. Haul roads within the estates are generally
of poor quality, many are low-lying and subject to flooding during the
rainy season, making parts of the estates inaccessible at times.



- 15 -
2.39      Except for the problem noted earlier with respect to the
reliability of power supply for pumping water, the provision of electricity
is generally adequate within the estates. Telecommunication links to the
rest of the country are erratic at all the factories except Sennar. A more
important problem is the poor radio/telephone network wZithin the estates,
which hinders communications with pumping stations, irrigation, and
agricultural field offices.
2.40      There is only limited office space at Sennar and New Halfa, and
agricultural workshop space is insufficient at Sennar and Assalaya.
Workforce Accommodation and Social Welfare
2.41      Housing is supposedly provided for all permanent staff.  Four
different standard house-types are provided depending upon the grade of
staff, while single staff and laborers are housed in barracks. No formal
housing is provided for seasonal workers, who live in huts in makeshift
villages on the estates.
2.42      There is insufficient housing to cater for all permanent staff at
all of the estates, and existing housing at Guneid and Sennar is
dilapidated due tc lack of maintenance. Health and education services are
provided by the Government, although there are too few classrooms at all of
the estates, and the health clinic/hospitals at Guneid and Assalaya are too
small. Water supplies are generally adequate, although often neither
electricity nor water are available in the seasonal worker's villages.
2.43      The shortage of housing and the lack of social amenities
adversely effect the ability of the estates to retain qualified staff, and
the poor living conditions are one of the reasons why it is so difficult to
attract cane cutters during the harvest season.
F. Sugarcane Research
2.44      Given the problems mentioned above in relation to cane varieties
(para 2.10), research is an extremely important part of the overall
recovery strategy. Research is currently carried out at the Government's
Sugarcane Research Station at Guneid, and at the joint venture estate at
Kenana, which undertakes its own research independently. The Guneid
research station is run by the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC), a
Government Corporation under the MOAI, and is responsible for the
introduction of new varieties and for advice on cultivation oractices.
However, due to the division of responsibility, research efforts have not
always been related to the operational needs of the sugar estates.
2.45      Established in 1976, the station did useful work in its early
years on the development of cane cultivation, smut control methods, and on
the effect of clay soil characteristics on sugarcane production. Recently,
however, there has been very little activity at the research station due to
the lack of adequate finance and support, and a serious shortage of
equipment and materials. Without a significant infusion of funds, the
station is in no position to render active assistance to the industry. A



- 16 -
revitalized research station is needed not just for the introduction of new
varieties, but also to test and monitor proposed new irrigation methods,
cultivation practices, and herbicide and fertilizer types and application
techniques.
G. Manpower Development and Training
2.46      There is a need to rationalize staffing, manpower development
practices, and training programs throughout the industry. Manpower levels
and organization are currently disorganized, and morale is generally low.
Existing staffing arrangements are not directly related to the production
needs of the companies, and while there have been significant efforts at
staff development and training, these have tended to benefit individuals
rather than the organization. The personal marketability of the recipient
has been enhanced by this selective approach, enabling him to seek more
remunerative employment elsewhere, so that despite the investment in
training there is still a serious lack of skilled personnel.
2.47      With the current incentive package, the sugar estates have been
unable to attract and retain sufficiently well-qualified staff, and have
suffered from high turn-over rates, thus exacerbating the shortage of
skilled staff. At the lower levels, however, the estates tend to be
over-manned, with an excess of unskilled laborers which inflate the wage
bill and hence production costs. The companies, having been established
(April 1984) as independent companies are no longer bound by public service
employment conditions, which limited their discretion in offering suitable
compensation packages, and made it difficult in the past to release
redundant staff.
2.48      There is a need to systematically estimate manpower requirements,
both in terms of numbers and skill levels; to formalize job classifications
and identify clear career-development paths, and to revise salary levels
and service conditions in order to attract skilled staff. The Companies
has just completed a review of salaries and conditions, and are expected to
announce revised levels shortly.
2.49      The industry has experienced problems both in attracting its
share of entry-level skilled workers from the Vocational Training Centers,
and in providing upgrading and specialized training to its existing
employees. Senior technical staff are competent and do an admirable job
with the limited resources at their command, but middle-level technicians
and tradesmen often lack specialized skills appropriate to the sugar
industry. At the more senior levels there is a general lack of managerial
skills. On-the-job training has often been undirected and ad hoc, and
formal training courses have never been properly established. Formal
training is supposed to be provided by the Sennar Training Center, which is
designed to train 160 persons a year - however the Center has never been
completed, and suffers from a lack of policy direction. To date it has
concentrated solely on the training of vocational staff, with higher level
training left to the Sugar Technology course at Khartoum University. There
is a need to complete works at Sennar, and to rehabilitate existing
buildings and accomrodation. There is also a requirement for some



- 17 -
in-factory technical assistance to provide on-the-job training, and to
provide instruction by example in work organization and record-keeping.
The over-riding need, however, is for a long-term training program tied to
manpower requirements.
H. Management, Accounts and Audit
2.50      The four sugar estates have been established as autonomous
companies. The common services previously provided by SDC (para. 2.07)
will now be devolved to the management of the individual companies. Each
of the estates is currently run by a General Manager, supported by
Assistant Managers responsible for Agriculture, Factory, Business
Administration, Personnel, Welfare, and Security. Existing managers have,
in general, done remarkably well givcn the limited resources available,
although they tend not to be professional managers, and given past
difficulties, morale is low. Some restructuring and revision of management
arrangements will be necessary before the companies are capable of
commercial operations.
2.51      The financial accounting regulations presently existing in the
four sugar companies provide an adequate basis for their future
operations. The financial accounting system as it works in practice
follows the established regulations closely. However, accounting
information is not issued in a timely fashion because of a shortage of
trained and qualified staff, inadequate supervision and out-of-date
manuals.
2.52      Budgetary control exists within the four companies but consists
only of monitoring actual major departmental expenses with budget at the
point of posting into the ledger. Timely performance reports are not
prepared. A detailed and comprehensive management information system
comparing physical and financial results to goals does not exist.
Chapter III
The Project
A. Project Description
3.01      Over a five year period the project would rehabilitate the four
estates and thereby raise sugarcane yields and the total quantity of sugar
produced, thus saving the country significant amounts of foreign exchange.
The Project would also support policy reform and strengthen institutional
arrangements for the sector as a whole and improve the performance of the
four companies. It would strengthen manpower, training, management and
accounting systems in the four sugar companies, as well as encourage an
intensified research effort. The expected phasing of implementation is
shown in Annex 1 and Chart III. The project components are described in
the following sections.



- 18 -
B. Project Components3
Agriculture
3.02      Cultivation Equipment (US$11.5 million).  The project would
provide sufficient cultivation equipment to allow for proper field
preparation, sub-soiling and ridging operations, as well as for limited
mechanized application of herbicides and fertilizers as necessary. A total
of 107 tractors will be provided at a cost of US$7.8 million, as well as
assorted specialized agricultural machinery such as subsoilers, harrows,
ridgers, and cultivators at a cost of US$3.8 million. US$2.0 million will
be spent on tractors and equipment for cultivation at Guneid; US$2.5
million at New Halfa; US$3.1 million at Sennar; and, US$4.0 million at
Assalaya.
3.03      Transport and Harvesting Equipment (US$23.4 million).  In order
to improve the reliability of delivery of cane to the factories the fleet
of cane haulage tractors and trailers will be expanded at a cost of US$16.9
million. This covers the cost of rehabilitation of 157 tractors and 480
trailers, as well as the purchase of 126 new tractors and 290 trailers.
Fifteen cane-harvesters will also be purchased to provide for limited
mechanized harvesting capability at New Halfa, Sennar, and Assalaya (US$3.3
million). Additional grab-loaders will also be purchased to improve the
efficiency of manual harvesting operations (US$3.2 million). The
distribution of new equipment and expenditures between the four estates is
as follows (principal equipment items only are shown):
Guneid     New Halfa      Sennar     Assalaya
75-95 hp Tractors      15            2            4           10
120-140 hp Tractors   27            25           18          25
Trailers               80           30          100          80
Harvesters             -              5           5            5
Total Cost            4.4          4.7          6.8          7.4
(US$ million)
The 120 hp tractors to be purchased under this component would be used for
cane-harvesting operations.
3.04      Miscellaneous Agricultural Equipment and Vehicles (US$12.2
million). A variety of mobile machinery would be provided to facilitate
general farm operations and maintenance, including twenty seven 75 hp
wheeled tractors, 22 general purpose trailers, 18 water and fuel tankers,
and forty one 7 ton trucks (US$7.1 million). A 140 hp dozer, vibrating
roller, TDL tractor, a motor grader and assorted other machinery will be
provided for at each estate to carry out civil works and road maintenance
(US$3.4 million).
3/ All costs are in current dollars, inclusive of all contingencies.



- 19 -
3.05      Motor vehicles will be provided to ensure the mobility of field
staff, irrigators, and laborers. The requirements consist of 37 two-wheel
drive vehicles, 16 four-wheel drive vehicles, 41 mopeds, 8 light buses and
trucks at a total cost of US$1.7 million. Of the total expenditure on
miscellaneous equipment and vehicles, USS2.9 million is allocated to
Guneid, US$2.5 million to New Halfa, US$2.6 million to Sennar and US$4.0
million to Assalaya.
3.06      Field Workshop and Estate Buildings (US$6.7 million).  In order
to reduce equipment down-times and improve equlpment performance a program
of preventive maintenance will be introduced, maintenance facilities would
be upgraded, and on-the-job training provided. US$0.4 million would be
provided at each estate to purchase specialized workshop tools and
equipment. A new workshop building and stores would be constructed at New
Halfa (US$2.5 million) and the existing workshops at the other three
estates would be renovated and expanded at a total cost of $2.6 million.
Under the Management Assistance and Training component (para. 3.18) an
internationally recruited workshop manager would be financed for each
estate, along with a section engineer and three skilled mechanics to
provide temporary assistance in rehabilitating existing machinery and on
the job training within the workshops. In addition a minor building
program would be undertaken to improve stores and office space.
Irrigation (US$23.0 million)
3.07      Rehabilitation.  A number of steps would be taken to improve
irrigation methods and the efficiency of in-field water distribution,
including the installation of measuring flumes, improvements to night
storage structures, and the purchase of syphons and canvas checks. In
total, such in-field works would cost US$5.4 million, spread fairly evenly
among the four estates. To improve the delivery of irrigation water new
pumps and motors will be installed at Guneid (US$2.5 million), the existing
pump station at Sennar will be completely rehabilitated at a cost of US$1.8
million, and a supply of spares for pumps will be provided at Sennar and
Assalaya (US$0.8 million). To test the effectiveness of the proposed
long-furrow irrigation techniques 300 feddan pilot schemes using revised
field layouts with appropriate drainage systems to remove excess water
would be established at New Halfa, Sennar and Assalaya. Funds will be
provided under the project for the development and operations of these
pilot schemes over a period of three years (US$0.8 million). Funds will
also be provided later in the project for engineering and design work on
the possible expansion of cane area at Sennar and Assalaya, in the event
that expansion proves necessary (US$0.8 million).
3.08      Power Supply (US$11.2 million).  Generators would be installed in
order to provide back-up power generation capacity to pump irrigation water
during periods when power is not available from the national grid, thus
removing a major constraint on cane yields. The proposed project would
provide for a two 1 mw diesel generator at Guneid (US$2.6 million), for two
1.25 mw diesel generators at Sennar (US$3.7 million), and for a 6.5 mw
turbo-alternator at the factory at Assalaya, (US$4.9 million).



- 20 -
Factory (US$50.5 million)
3.09      Process Rehabilitation (US$32.6 million).  The Buckau-Wolfe
program (US$15.3 million) is a package of essential replacements for worn
machinery at Guneid and Np- Halfa, which is being financed by KfW and
provided by Buckau-Wolfe of the Federal Republic of Germany. The package
consists primarily of boiler parts and materials, mill spares, and filters
and crystallizers. To supplement the Buckau-Wolfe program the proposed
project would provide for additional factory equipment and instruments
required at Guneid (US$3.3 million) and New Halfa (US$3.8 million), as well
as for a stock of spare parts in order to avoid costly delays during the
crushing season (US$3.4 million at Guneid, US$2.1 million at New Halfa).
3.10      A program of factory process rehabilitation will be undertaken at
Sennar (US$3.8 million) and at Assalaya (US$3.8 million), to complete
unfinished works and to correct teething problems encountered during the
first few years of operations. The program will concentrate on
improvements to cane feed, steam systems, crystallizers, and instruments
and controls. In addition, stocks of spares will be provided at Sennar and
Assalaya (US$1.6 million each). To assist with project implementation and
to help identify system improvement the proposed project would finance a
deputy factory manager for 5 years, a maintenance engineer, a chmaical
technologist, an electrical technician, and a sugar instrumentation
engineer, each for a period of three years.
3.11      Bagasse Stores (US$3.2 million).  The project would provide for
the installation of a partially mechanized bagasse reclaim system at each
of the four factories, in order to improve efficiency of bagasse handling
as factory operating speeds increase. An enclosed bagasse storage shed
will also be constructed at each factory to cater for the greater
quantities of bagasse that will be generated with higher yields and output
levels.
3.12      Factory Structure (US$8.5 million).  Major remedial works would
be undertaken to correct structural faults at the Sennar and Assalaya sugar
factories. The factory roofs would be re-sheeted at Guneid and New Halfa
(US$1.2 million) and steps would be taken to rectify the ground-heave
problem which has resulted in shifting foundations at Sennar and Assalaya
(US$5.1 million). Design work for this component is currently being
financed under the Project Preparation Facility (paras 3.25 and 3.29). In
addition the project would include a program of minor works to upgrade
cane-yards, flooring, factory ventilation, etc. (US$2.2 million).
Infrastructure (US$15.9 million).
3.13      Electricity and Communications (US$3.1 million).  Internal
communications would be improved by the provision of telephone systems and
mobile radios at a cost of US$0.3 million at each estate. This will
facilitate area agricultural operations, irrigation control, and the
provision of in-field maintenance of machinery. Microwave systems would be
installed at Guneid, New Halfa, and Assalaya (US$1.2 million) in order to
provide a link to Khartoum and the national telephone system, thus
improving management coordination and the ordering of supplies and inputs.



- 21 -
Funds would also be provided under the proposed project to improve
electrical distribution within the estates.
3.14      Housing and Services (US$9.3 million).  Housing facilities would
be upgraded at all four estates, since the lack of adequate housing has
made it difficult to retain higher level staff, and the complete absence of
accommodation for seasonal laborers has been one of the reasons the
companies cannot attract cane-cutters. US$0.3 million will be spent on the
rehabilitation of existing housing, and 96 new houses will be constructed
at a cost of US$4.5 million based on existing standard designs. Additional
barracks and messes will be constructed (US$2.6 million), and a program
undertaken to provide permanent round huts for seasonal workers, along with
improved sanitation in laborers' villages (US$1.9 million).
3.15      Social Infrastructure (US$3.1 million).  Under the proposed
project health and education facilities would also be improved at the sugar
estates as a means of attracting and retaining skilled staff. Health
centers would be renovated and provided with new equipment, and a new
health center constructed at Assalaya (US$0.8 million). Additional
classrooms would be built and equipped to cater for the school-aged
population of the estates through 1990 (US$2.0 million), and a market area
would be constructed at each estate to improve accessability to foodstuffs
for laborers. Staff for the health centers and schools would be provided
by GOS.
3.16      Maintenance Equipment (US$0.4 million).  US$0.1 million would be
allocated to each estate for the purchase of specialized tools and
equipment to improve building maintenance capabilities.
Support Services (US$26.1 million)
3.17      Office and Accounting Equipment (US$3.7 million).  US$0.9 million
would be allocated to each company for the acquisition of new accounting
systems and office equipment, including the provision of sufficient funds
to allow for the possible introduction of computer:zed accounting later in
the project.
3.18      Technical and Management Services (US$22.4 million).  Technical
personnel to be provided for factory and workshop operations are described
separately above (para. 3.06, 3.10). These personnel would form part of an
internationally-recruited management team to be appointed at each estate
during the project period. The objective of these teams would be to
provide management support and training during the transition to commercial
operations. In addition to technical personnel, the management teams would
consist of a Deputy Managing Director (under the supervision of a Sudanese
Managing Director), a Deputy Factory Manager, Workshop Manager, and
Business Administration Manager. These have been identified as the
critical areas in which assistance is required in the development of
management systems and personnel.
3.19      The size of the management assistance and training (MAT) teams
will be progressively reduced over the life of the project as more of the
new functions are assumed by existing Sudanese managers. The management



- 22 -
teams will be selected competitively from a short-list of pre-qualified
firms, and their terms of reference and conditions of renumeration will be
such that:
(i) they will perform as a team along with Sudanese managers;
(ii) renumeration will be based on performance against agreed
production and cost-reduction targets,
(iii) they will be responsible for management training and the
preparation of Sudanese counterparts.
To ensure that training takes place, the terms of management assistance
contracts will be such that the number of expatriates is reduced, subject
to annual review, according to the following schedule:
Project Year
1     2     3     4     5
Number of Personnel      16    16   13      5      4
Furthermore, the project will finance the employment of an independent
management consultant to evaluate the performance of the management of each
company every year and advise on areas for improvement. Details of
technical services under the project are set out in Annexes 9 and 10, and
an organization chart for the proposed Management Assistance and Training
component is attached as Chart II.
Project Implementation Team (US$4.8 million)
3.20      The existing Sugar Project Implementation Cell within the
Ministry of Industry will be responsible for project implementation (see
para. 4.03 to 4.04). Under the Project funding would be provided for a
team of technical advisors to the Cell, along with limited supporting
services and facilities. (A team of five advisors has already been
established to aid in project preparation during 1983/84 under a PPF).
Training (US$5.9 million)
3.21      The project would substantially strengthen the training
capabilities within the sugar industry. A combination of technical
assistance training personnel and external courses would be used to provide
specialized upgrading courses for existing skilled and semi-skilled
personnel, and to provide training for trainers (US$4.8 million). In
addition, buildings and housing at the Sennar training center would be
rehabilitated, and additional training equipment purchased to compensate
for lack of funding in recent years (US$1.1 million). The training
component has been prepared by UNIDO, and UNIDO or a consulting firm would
manage implementation of the training program by providing five training
specialists for a period of five years to design and conduct detailed
training courses. The training component of the project is described in
more detail in Annex 10.



- 23 -
Sugarcane Research (US$1.2 million)
3.22      Under the project sugarcane research would be stepped up at the
Guneid Research Center in a drive to find more productive cane varieties
suitable to conditions in the Sudan. In addition, a program of research
activities would be instituted at the estate level to undertake field
trials on varieties, smut control, herbicides, and fertilizer application.
It will be necessary to replace almost all of the field agricultural
machinery at the Research Station (US$0.9 million), as well as to purchase
new laboratory equipment (US$0.3 million). A research program (Annex 6)
will be instituted in conjunction with an established sugarcane research
body, in order to take advantage of the availability of specialized
personnel at such institutions. Funds will be provided under the project
for such specialized technical assistance for the design, monitoring and
implementation of the research program.
C. Status of Engineering
3.23      The detailed requirements for rehabilitation of factory and
agricultural equipment were determined after surveys at each site during
project preparation. These were reviewed during appraisal to arrive at
final project cost estimates. Preparation of detailed specifications and
tender documents is underway with the technical assistance provided under
the PPF and should be completed, for most components, before project
effectiveness.
3.24      The outline specifications for power generation are sufficient
for feasibility purposes, and include an analysis of power potential and
power generation requirements at each estate. Funds would be provided
under the project for preparation of the power plant component by the end
of 1984. The drafting of derailed specifications for replacement of
pumping equipment at Guneid and Sennar will be carried out by NOAI(I) who
are adequately experienced in such works.
3.25      The proposals for buildings and infrastructure are based on the
standard design practices in Sudan and their cost estimates based on
prevailing prices for similar works. The engineering and supervision of
these would be handled by the civil engineering departments of the sugar
companies. Ground heave and foundation distress at Sennar and Assalaya,
being special problems, were reviewed by a specialist consultant. These
were determined to be rectifiable and criteria for the design of the
rectification works would be drawn up by the same consultant under PPF
funds. During negotiations it was agreed that detailed design and
specifications for the rectification work by a consultant acceptable to IDA
would be completed by December 31, 1984.
D. Cost Estimates
3.26      Total project cost is US$181 million (LSd 339 million) with a
foreign exchange component of US$149 million (LSd 278 million), or 82x. No
taxes or duties are included in the project costs, as new companies are
excluded from all taxes during the first five years of operations. All



- 24 -
Table 4
S   WM RIIITATIN PET
PRO cDSr SiNuinl
(LU 'O00)                                    (Ms5 '00)
Foriin 2 Total                              Z Foreian   Towta
Local   Farnii*    Total   Exr_ha   Ba  Csts Local   Foregn    Toal   Exdhnds lB  Casts
A. A8OICLTll
CIWATIINIEWDIPET                1,997. ?  1Og2.2  12iM.1    83.5         6.3 1PS13.4   79670.0   ,183.4      83.5      6.3
SUWWE    £ TUINVOT EumurT   4,107.6  20,141.1 l2048.7    83.6            13.0 312t.8  15,115.1  1036;        83.6     13.0
KIMSC EW  (UICI                 ivMa.  9i490.5  1,3UM.4    83.5          5.9 1428.0   7,212.7   8440.7    83.5         5.9
WKLE5                             2l5.4   1.44t.6   1,727.0    83.5      0.9   216.9   101.6   1,312.5    83.5         0.9
FIED 1111                         446.7   1u386.4   1833.1    75.6        1.0   339.5   1,053.7   1,393.1    75.6      1.0
ESTATE IOIUR S                  1,2Y4.0  46115.3   5,409.2    76.1        2.8   983.4   3,127.6   4.111.0    76.1      2.8
SUb-Total AUICIE                  1Ol.S  479467.1  57h477.!    82.6        29.8 7,607.?  36,074.7  43,62.6    82.6       29.8
D. IIU6ATIU
IA3ILIrTATM  I NEII             4,93.3  11,448.9  16v387.3    6?.?       8.5 3,753.1  83701.1  12P454.2    69.1        8.S
FM lIERBIUNl                   1,995.4   5909.8  7?,05.1    74.8        4.1  1,516.5   4,491.4   6,007.8    74.8      4.1
tb-Total IWNATIUI                  6.933.7  17,35B.7  24,9M.4    71.5      12.6 s,269.6  13,192.5  18,462.0    71.5      12.6
C. FACTUR
-C5 ULF P_RSUE                    940.7  16i917.3  17,858.0    94.7      9.3   714.9  12.57.0  13,571.9    94.7        1.3
AMMIT      UKENTS               2,128.4   4p975.?  7.104.2    70.0       3.7 1,617.6   3,781.6   5399.2    70.0        3.7
sT05 SVBS                       19736.0   7.496.6  9P232.6    81.2       4.8 1,311.3  5697.4   7,016.7    81.2        4.3
0WIlTATIU I                    1M106.9   2926.3   30352.1    67.0        1.7   841.2   19706.4   29547.6    67.0      1.7
EIITATI OII                   lj,03.3   3.031.7   4,534.9    66.?      2.4 1,142.5  2W304.1   3446.5    66.y         2.4
IUIIITATI  III                     55.1    237.8     m.8    81.2         0.2   41.8    180.7    222.6    91.2          0.2
-UE Sl0RE                         775.9   2672.1   3s448.0    77.5       1.8   559.7   2.030.8   2f620.5    77.5       1.8
SWrEETEII                         961.0   2.745.0   3.706.1    74.1       1.9  730.4   2,036.2   2,816.6    74.1       1.9
f11  IfUE SETFICIATUN           1.200.4   4.363.7   5.64.l    79.4        2.?  n12.3   3,316.4   4,228.7    78.        2.9
Sb-Total FTI3T                    10,407.6  44685.3  355092.9    81.1      28.6 7,909.7  33,160.6  419870.3    81.1      2B.6
3. 11USUET
RaSsONHUICTU  I EIEC.            46.3   2721.1   3t38.4    80.3          1.8   507.2   2,068.0   2575.2    80.3        1.8
AIEe     SMEVCS                 49880.6   5'l72.0  10,052.6    51.4      5.2 3,701.3   3,930.7   7,639.9    51.4       5.2
SMIAL IWR*STRCTNE                ,9M.2   1.337.?   3,331.1    40.2       1.7 1,514.8   1,016.3  2W53.6    40.2         1.7
NISC EHIVEMNT                      66.9    311.2    378.1    82.3        0.2   50.8    236.5    237.4    82.3          0.2
St-Totl IIMUC                      7,60S.0   9542.2  17.13.2     S5.6       8.9 5782.1   7252.0  139034.1    55.6         8.9
E. 9IPlT SERVICES
IIFF   EUIPIN                      36.9   2989.7   3.926.6    75.5       2.0   712.0   2196.2   2e908.2    75.5        2.0
TECIMCSL SERVICS                     -  221475.9  221475.?   100.0    1U.7         -  17,081.6  17,081.6   100.0      11.7
St-Total SWIIIRT S15ES              s36.9  25w365.7  26P302.3    96.4      13.7   72.0  19,277.8  1999m.8       6.4      13.7
F. SUE CUE UESCAl
LW EUFEI                             -     287.2    287.2   100.0        0.1       -     218.3    218.3   100.0        0.1
E     nUIPIE    t  ILeDDS         264.3    650.9    *1I.2    71.1        0.5   200.9    494.7    695.6    71.1         0.5
St-TOW  UJE CE SOiESI               214.3    93.1   1,282.5    78.0         0.6   200.9    713.0    913.9    78.0         0.6
S. lUET JILEIATIN TEAN              510.0  46643.4  5,153.4    90.1         2.7   397.6   3.52.0   3,116.6    90.1        2.7
N. TURWlI
SiR 1lU111  C                     571.1    sn9.4   1Yu62.5     50.?      0.6   434.0    449.4    983.5    50.?         0.6
TA PERSUL                            -   3,615.1   3,615.1   100.0       1.9       -   2,747.5   29747.!   100.0       1.9
EDEUt  T*18                          -   1.134.3  ll34.3   100.0        0.6       -     900.1     9O.1   100.0        0.6
Sit-TOtl TIWUII                     571.1   590.8   s916.Y    90.4          3.1   434.0   4,097.0   4,531.0    90.4       3.1
TOtalW    E    COSTS                379242.0 12,391.4  1929633.4    80.7    140.0 2,303.7 118P096.5 1469400.2    80.7    100.0
PhMsIcal Ceuilmcts                39827.3  14,1.0  18,742.3    79.6        9.7 2,908.7  11,335.3  14w244.0    79.6       9.7
Pries Contcoeles                 11,396.5 107.673.1 127i5&9.5    84.4     66.2 1,257.3  1?i437.   20695.1    93.9       14.1
TOW  PKI T CLIS                    60,16.8 2779979.5 338,945.2    82.0    176.0 32,469.8 148,369.6 181,339.4    82.1    123.?
Hedh 17, 1934 13.21



- 25 -
costs are project investment costs, with incremental operating costs being
borne by the sugar companies and GOS. Baseline project costs (excluding
physical and price contingencies) are US$146.4 million (LSd 192.6
million). Estimated costs are summarized in Table 4 and Annex I.
3.27      The cost estimates are based on June 1982 figures updated to
January 1984 baseline price levels and are derived from recent quotations
and appraisal estimates. Physical contingency rates on project components
are 10%, except for some local civil works which are estimated using a 20%
physical contingency rate.
3.28      Price contingencies total 14.1% of base costs in US dollars, and
have been estimated as summarized in Annex 3.1. Costs have been converted
at the purchasing power parity exchange rates given in Annex 3.1.
3.29      A PPF of US$1.0 million has been provided to cover the costs of a
team of five technical advisors to the Sugar Project Implementation
Cell. Funds are also provided under the PPF for the recruitment of
technical personnel for short term assignments on particular specialized
project preparation issues.
E. Financing Plan
3.30      Project costs would be financed in the following amounts and
proportions:
Table 5
Project Financing Plan
(US$ millions including all contingencies)
Loocal      Foreign
Currency    Exchange      Total         % of
Costs        Costs       Costs    Total Project
1. IDA Credit                -          60.0          60.0         33.1
2. Other Cofinanciers
(a) Saudi Fund           -          23.5          23.5         13.0
(b) Arab Fund            -          47.2          47.2         26.0
(c) Germany (KfW)        -          17.3          17.3          9.5
3.  Government of Sudan    32.5           0.8         33.3          18.4
and Sugar Companies
Total Project Cost         32.5         148.8        181.3          100
a/ Amounts include all contingencies.
3.31      The IDA credit would finance, jointly with the sugar companies
and GOS, the following components: general agricultural and construction
equipment at all four estates; vehicles at Guneid and New Halfa; harvesting
and transport equipment at Sennar; irrigation field works at Sennar and
Assalaya; infrastructure and housing; training, technical and management



- 26 -
services, and research. The other components would be financed by
co-financiers, jointly with the sugar companies and GOS, as follows: the
Saudi Fund would finance harvesting and transport equipment at Guneid and
New Halfa; all irrigation works at Guneid and New Halfa; and the programs
of additional equipment requirements and stock spares for the factories at
Guneid and New Halfa. The Arab Fund4/ would finance all remaining
agricultural machinery; irrigation power supply, pumps and spares at Sennar
and Assalaya; agricultural workshops at Sennar and Assalaya and all factory
works except the bagasse stores at Sennar and Assalaya. KfW would finance
the programs of factory replacement parts supplied by Buckau-Wolf, along
with workshop improvements at Guneid and New Halfa.
3.32      Project financing by the financing agencies for the different
categories of goods or services is set out in the following table:
Table 6
Project Financing Package by Expenditure Category
(US$ million, including all contingencies)
Arab    Saudi-   FRG
GOS    IDA   Fund a/  Fund   (KfW)  Total
Agricultural Mach.            6.0    9.5   16.4       5.9      -    37.8
Mechanical Equip.            14.4    9.3   17.7      14.4    15.1   70.9
Vehicles                      0.5    2.8    0.8        -       -      4.1
Spares & Rehab.               0.9    1.1    2.8       0.4      -      5.2
Civil Works                  10.6    3.3    9.5       2.8     2.2   28.4
Technical Services            0.2   32.7      -        -       -    32.9
Research                      0.7    1.3      -        -       -      2.0
Total                      33.3   60.0   47.2      23.5    17.3  181.3
a! Allocation of Arab Fund finance to categories is tentative.
3.33      The proposed IDA Credit would be on standard terms to GOS.
US$32.8 million of the IDA Credit would be passed on as government equity
in the sugar companies, to the MOI for operation of the Sennar Training
Center, and as a grant to ARC (through MOI) for research operations. A
further US$4.4 million would be retained by Government (NOI) for the
operations of SPIC and for funding studies and specialized technical
assistance. GOS, which would bear the foreign exchange risk, would onlend
the balance of US$22.8 million of the IDA Credit to the sugar companies.
It is GOS policy to move gradually towards positive real interest rates.
The present lending rate in Sudan is 9% for non-commercial enterprises and
12% for commercial entities. Onlending would be for 12 years at 16%
interest. The proposed rate reflects some movement towards the goal of
positive real interest rates and has to be viewed against the current
inflation rate of 25%, which is however likely to come down to about 15% by
4/ Allocation of Arab Fund Financing to detailed sub-components is still
tentative.



- 27 -
1987/88. GOS share of expenditures on components financed by IDA (para.
3.31) would be passed on to Project entities on the same basis as IDA's
contribution. The execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreements with the sugar
companies acceptable to IDA would be a condition of Credit effectiveness...
Financial projections indicate that the sugar companies could generate
significant cash surpluses during the project, provided producer prices are
adjusted sufficiently. Under the Annual Work Program mechanism, the size
of such cash surpluses would be assessed and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
would provide for possible earlier repayment of GOS loans and for the
possibility of the sugar companies financing some of the local currency
proportion of project costs each year, based on a determination made under
the AWP mechanism.
3.34      Funds provided by cofinanciers for various project components
would be passed on to the project entities on terms and conditions
satisfactory to such cofinanciers, as would the GOS share of expenditure on
such components. Evidence satisfactory to IDA that all conditions
precedent to the disbursement of at least US$64.5 million from such
cofinanciers, save for effectiveness thereof, have been fulfilled, would be
a condition of Credit effectiveness. It was agreed at negotiations that
GOS would provide evidence satisfactory to IDA of the availability of the
additional US$23.5 million by December 31, 1984. In fact, arrangements for
co-financing are well advanced. Agreements have been signed with the Arab
Fund and KfW,and KfW funds are already being disbursed. The Saudi Fund
appraised the project in conjunction with IDA and expects to complete
project processing by July 1984.
F. Procurement
3.35      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 7 below:
Table 7
Project Procurement Arrangements by Expenditure Category
(US$ million including all contingencies)
Procurement Method
a/    b/Total
Project Element                    ICB   LCB   Other   N.A.   Cost
Agricultural Machinery & Equip.          11.4    -    26.4      -    37.8
(9.6)         (-)           (9.6)
Mechanical Equipment                     12.3    -    58.6      -    70.9
(9.3)   -     (-)           (9.3)
Vehicles                                  3.2    -     0.9      -      4.1
(2.8)         (-)           (2.8)
Spares & Rehabilitation                    -    1.4    3.8      -     5.2
(1.1)   C-)           (1.1)



- 28 -
Civil Works & Construction Materials      3.7    -    24.7       -    28.4
(2.1)   -    (1.2)           (3.3)
Technical Services                       22.4    -      9.5     1.0   32.9
(22.4)        (9.2)   (1.0) (32.6)
Research                                   -     -      2.0      -     2.0
(1-3)          (1.3)
Total                               53.0   1.4  125.9      1.0  181.3
(46.2) (1.1) (11.7)   (1.0) (60-0)c/
a/ 'Other" category includes all co-financed items and reserved procurement
of IDA financed items.
b/ Refinancing of PPF
c/ Figures in parenthesis are amounts financed by IDA.
Items to be financed by other agencies are set out in para. 3.31;
procurement procedures of the concerned agency would apply to these items.
Items to be financed under the IDA Credit would be procured as follows, and
assurances to this effect were obtained from GOS during negotiations.
3.36      Goods.  Vehicles, machinery, equipment and spares totalling
approximately US$26.9 million would be grouped into appropriate bidding
packages of US$200,000 or more and procured by ICB in accordance with Bank
guidelines (issued July 1980) for works and goods. Qualifying domestic
manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15% or the
import duty, whichever is lower. Miscellaneous items in packages of less
than US$200,000 but totalling no more than US$4 million would be procured
under local competitive procedures which are acceptable to IDA. For
contracts un.- r US$20,000, but totalling no more than US$500,000, local
shopping or - -hasing off-the-shelf after obtaining at least three
quotations would be used. In total, ICB would account for about 90X by
value of the purchases of goods.
3.37      Works.  Civil works construction of housing at three of the
estates totalling approximately US$3.7 million would be procured by ICB
procedures. The civil works for village accommodation and water supply,
for the rehabilitation of existing houses, and the construction of
classrooms and bridges over canals, amounting to approximately US$2.0
million, because of the small unit cost and the existence of company units
already engaged in this work, would be by force account. In total, ICB
would account for about 65% by value of the procurement of civil works.
3.38      Contract Review.  All bidding packages for works and goods
estimated to cost over US$0.5 million equivalent would be made subject to
prior IDA review of procurement documentation. This would result in a
coverage of about 75% of the total estimated value of the contracts. The
balance of contracts would be subject to random post review by IDA after
contract award.
3.39      Technical Services.  The Technical Services listed in Annex 9
would be hired in accordance with the Bank guidelines (issued August 1981)



- 29 -
on the use of consultants. In particular, selection of firms for supply of
Management Assistance and Training Services (para. 3.18) would be based on
both technical and price evaluation of responses from a short list of firms
acceptable to IDA, drawn up on the basis of a prequalification exercise,
during which firms which show interest in response to advertisement would
be screened. This process will take place between April and August 1984,
for mobilization of the teams no later than October 31, 1984. Consultants
would have terms of reference, qualifications and terms and conditions of
employment satisfactory to IDA. Assurances to this effect were obtained
from COS during negotiations.
G. Disbursement
3.40      The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed over six years
(Annex 4) against the following categories of expenditures: (a) For
machinery equipment, and vehicles; (i) 100% of the CIF cost of directly
imported goods; (ii) 100% of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured
goods; and (iii) 60% of the costs of items procured through local shopping
or local bidding; (b) For civil works; (i) 100% of the foreign exchange
expenditures, and (ii) 50% of the costs of other civil works, and; (c) For
technical services and studies; 100% of total cost. Disbursement against
all items would be based on full documentation, except for force account
applications below $20,000 and contracts of less than $10,000 value, which
would require only a Statement of Expenditure. The disbursement profiles
for Bank-wide irrigation and drainage subsector projects and for Eastern
Africa crop processing and grain storage subsector projects are eight and
nine years respectively, while for all Sudanese projects, the profile shows
that full disbursement has taken an average of nine years with about 82%
being disbursed over the first six years. The shorter disbursement period
of six years assumed for the Project is justified by the relatively strong
Project management team and by the fact that the vast majority of project
funds will be spent on the procurement of machinery and equipment for
existing operations. In addition, a shorter than average disbursement
period may be expected since significant amounts of pre-implementation
preparation have already been undertaken by SPIC under the PPF, and because
co-financing arrangements are well advanced, with some disbursements
scheduled to take place this year. Disbursements are expected to be
completed by December 31, 1989.
H. Environmental Impact
3.41      The principal environmental consideration is the disposal of
excess quantities of molasses produced under the project -- to a level of
148,000 tons a year by 1990. Current plans envisage the export of all
molasses through the project period, and the terminal facilities at Port
Sudan are being expanded under a separate IDA ports project and will handle
the projected flow. In the longer run consideration should be given to the



- 30 -
construction of an ethanol plant5/, or of the development of feed-stock
processing to consume excess molasses domestically. Potential in these
directions wou- be assessed during the mid-term review (para. 4.22).
CHAPTER IV
Project Implementation
A. Role of Central Ministries
Ministry of Industry
4.01      The Ministry of Industry is responsible for formulating national
sugar policy and for monitoring the health of the industry. An existing
unit within MOI deals with the industry and also coordinates research and
training at the industry level, while a separate Sugar Project
Implementation Cell (SPIC), supported by a team of internationally
recruited advisors funded under a PPF, handles project implementation
(para. 2.07). GOS proposes to strengthen the unit dealing with the sugar
industry by upgrading it as a Sudan Sugar Board (SSB) along the lines of
the Sudan Cotton Board recently established and found acceptable to IDA. A
diagram showing the proposed organizational arrangements is presented as
Chart I in the Annexes.
Sudan Sugar Board
4.02      The Sudan Sugar Board (SSB) will be headed by an Executive
Director, with at least ten years experience in the sugar industry, who
would report directly to the Minister of Industry. The members would be
representatives of MOFEP, MCCS and MOAI, and a Secretary. The Board
would be located in the Ministry of Industry, absorbing both the existing
sugar sector unit and the Sugar Project Implementation Cell (SPIC). The
Executive Director and the Secretary, both Sudanese, would have experience
and qualifications, and would be appointed on terms and conditions,
satisfactory to IDA. Funding for recurrent operations of the Board would
be provided under MOI's budget. The Board's terms of reference would
include: (i) to review the role of the public and private sectors in sugar
and to advise on production and development plans; (ii) monitor and
evaluate the performance of the industry as a whole; (iii) undertake market
research and analysis of supply and demand for sugar, and advise on
appropriate marketing, production, and import/export programs; (iv) collect
and analyze data on costs and prices in the industry; (v) review manpower
availability and demand and training requirements and manage the Sennar
Training Center; (vi) monitor technical developments in the sugar industry
and advise Government on research programming; (vii) liaise with concerned
departments and agencies on industry requirements; and (viii) implement the
rehabilitation project for the industry through its project implementation
5/ A Bank Energy Assessment Study has identified Kenana as a favorable site
for location of such a plant.



- 31 -
cell (SPIC). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GOS will
establish the Sudan Sugar Board with Terms of Reference acceptable to IDA,
including the appointment of its Executive Director and Secretary prior to
Board presentation.
Sugar Project Implementation Cell
4.03      SPIC has been strengthened with the provision of five
internationally recruited technical advisors funded under a PPF from IDA.
The initial role of these advisors is to assist in project preparation, but
they would be retained to assist with project implementation. The advisors
consist of experts in the field of sugar technology, agricultural
engineering, agronomy, financial management, and organization and policy.
4.04      SPIC, supported by its team of advisors, would inter alia: (i)
conduct strategic planning and render policy advice in relation to the
rehabilitation program for the industry and supervise the project; (ii)
monitor the physical and financial progress of the sugar companies in
attaining project targets, identify potential problems and their solutions;
(iii) render technical support to the sugar companies for project
activities, supervise the work of consultants on the project; and identify
areas in which additional technical assistance is required by the
individual companies; (iv) prepare for the companies the accounting,
management, and maintenance systems which are necessary to operate
successfully as commercial entities; (v) advise on the annual values which
would be used for costing and pricing, consistent with the principles
governing pricing; (vi) help establish an appropriate personnel structure
for each autonomous company, along with an incentive package sufficient to
attract skilled staff. SPIC would be wound up six months after the project
completion date.
Sugar Consultative Group
4.05      GOS would establish a Sugar Consultative Group (SCG), comprising
representatives of the sugar companies (including Kenana), MOI, MOFEP, MOAI
and ARC which would be the forum through which the Government consults with
the industry on national sugar policy issues. The SCG would normally meet
twice a year and would be serviced by the SSB.
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
4.06      The Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning would be
responsible for the provision of adequate foreign exchange and local
currency for project operations. MOFEP would be represented on SSB, SCG
and the boards of the four sugar companies, while an official from the
Procurement Division of the Ministry would head the Project Procurement
Committee (para 4.09).
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
4.07      MOAI would continue to operate the pumping stations and major
canals at the sugar companies, but the ownership of these assets would be
formally transferred to the sugar companies no later than July 1, 1985.



- 32 -
The maintenance and operating expenses of MOAI would be reimbursed
annually, based on a volumetric charge for water actually delivered. Such
charges would be negotiated no later than March 31 each year and embodied
in the Annual Work Program. Arrangements for the transfer of maintenance
and operating responsibility from the MOAI to the concerned sugar companies
with effect from July 1, 1987, would be finalized during the mid-term
review and monitored through the AWP mechanism (para. 4.22). The above
arrangements were agreed with Government during negotiations.
4.08      MOAI would continue to supervise ARC which would be responsible
for sugarcane research in the country. The annual research program would
be drawn up by ARC after consultation with MOI and SCG; project funds for
research would be incorporated in the AWP and released to ARC by MOI. The
acceptability of the above arrangements was confirmed during negotiations.
Project Procurement
4.09      Procurement for the Project would be coordinated by a Project
Procurement Committee (PPC), comprising technical specialists drawn from
the implementing entities and representatives of SPIC. This committee
would be modelled after a similar committee established under the ARP
Credit (Cr. 1000-SU) which proved highly successful. The committee would
be the final authority in Government on project procurement decisions and
would be headed by an official of the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning. Collaborative arrangements between PPC, SPIC and the project
entities were agreed to at negotiations and are set out in Annex 12.
B. Funding of Project Entities and Audit
4.10      Project Funds.  The annual requirement of funds would be
estimated through the Annual Work Program (para 4.19) mechanism. The
transfer of project funds to the project entities would be monitored by
SPIC.
4.11      Non-project Funds, mainly for recurrent expenditures, would also
be estimated through the AWP mechanism. Currently both foreign exchange
and local currency needs are provided on an ad hoc basis by MOFEP and the
Bank of Sudan. However, once sugar prices are raised to reflect import
parity prices (paras. 5.12 to 5.17), the four companies are expected to
gain access to adequate local currency to enable them to purchase needed
foreign exchange. The total foreign exchange requirements of the companies
for recurrent costs is estimated to be around US$17 million in 1983/84 and
would rise to around US$30 million in 1988/89. During negotiations
Government clarified that since the four companies were now independent
entities under the Companies Ordinance (1925) there were no restrictions on
purchase of foreign exchange from legal foreign exchange sources other than
the Government or Bank of Sudan. Assurances were also obtained that
sufficient supplies of fuel would be made available to the company for
operation of the factories, field equipment, and electrical generators for
the irrigation pumps.



- 33 -
4.12      With the establishment of the four companies an initial Balance
Sheet for each would have to be prepared and audited as at their legal
commencement date. The Balance Sheets would reflect the useful assets at
their going concern value, and the related liabilities incurred to obtain
such assets, while the residual amounts would reflect each company's
initial equity. During negotiations agreement was reached that this would
be completed no later than March 31, 1985, based on principles acceptable
to IDA. Thereafter, GOS would cause the companies to provide IDA with
unaudited financial statements within six months of the close of each
company's fiscal year and an independent auditor's opinion and report
satisfactory to IDA on such statements would be provided within nine months
of the close of each fiscal year. Assurances have been obtained from GOS
that the four sugar companies would be required to maintain their
accounting systems in accordance with sound and generally recognized
accounting principles and practices acceptable to IDA, including provision
of depreciation on the basis of replacement cost.
4.13      According to the Articles of Association of each sugar company
the company at each Annual General Meeting shall in consultation with GOS'S
Auditor General annually appoint an auiitor. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that independent auditors acceptable to IDA would be
appointed.
4.14      ARC at Guneid and the MOI at Khartoum would maintain separate
Project accounts covering the research, training and project implementation
components respectively. Experience with other projects in the case of
ARC, as well as review during appraisal and thereafter of the MOI show them
able to maintain separate records of their organization's share of
project costs. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that these Project
entities wruld establish and maintain separate accounts to be operational
from the beginning of implementation, and that such accounts would be
maintained in accordance with sound and generally recognized accounting
principles and practices satisfactory to IDA to enable these organizations
to reflect the financial performance and position of the project
components. Unaudited financial statements for each would be provlded to
IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year, and an independent
auditor's opinion and reports satisfactory to IDA on such statements would
be presented within nine months of the close of each organii-tions' fiscal
year.
4.15      The Auditor General is by law the auditor of the other project
entities and generally his staff is adequate to carry out the required
audits under the project. However, due to an increasing wor'.load, it is
unlikely that audits could be carried out on a timely basis in the future.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that If the Auditor 'leneral
reports that an audit for which his office is responsible cannot be
completed within three months of receiving the accounts, then other
independent auditors acceptable to IDA would be engaged forthwith to carry
out the required a's-=t work.



- 34 -
C. The Sugar Companies
4.16      The four schemes will be established as companies, each with its
own Board of Directors, including a Chairman and Managing Director to be
appointed by the Minister of Industries. Operational authority will be
delegated to the Managing Director, who will be supported by four
departmental managers, responsible for Agriculture, Factory, Personnel
Administration, and Business Administration. The progressively greater
autonomy proposed for the companies is shown in the schedule below:
Activity                 Power of company Board  Effective From
Staff recruitment and-termination            Full           Inception
Compensation for staff                        Full
Management of company operations              Full
Procurement of non-Project inputs             Full          Inception
Price Setting                                 Participatory July 1, 1984
Full          July 1, 1987a/
Marketing                                     Partial       July 1, 1984
Full          July 1, l987a/
Irrigation Water Supply                      Participatory July 1, 1984
Full          July 1, 1987a/
Tenants                         New production relations   July 1, 1985
Research               J        Company MD participates    July 1, 1984
Training               I        in SPIC, PPC and SCG
Project Implementation ]        but centralized control remains
Borrowing from financial
Institutions                Full subject to GOS ceilings July 1, 1984
a!  Subject to outcome of mid-term review (para. 4.22).
However, expectations of autonomy would need to be tempered by the fact
that GOS has full powers to appoint and remove the Board of Directors and
top management of the companies.
4.17      The specific responsibilities of the companies with respect to
project implementation, would be: (i) installation and operation of all
machinery and equipment purchased under the project; (ii) organization of
capital works under the project; (iii) implementation of revised
compensation packages and personnel organization; (iv) implementation of
revised management and cost-accounting systems; (v) introduction of new
cultivation and irrigation practices, and of new harvesting, transport, and
bagasse handling systems; (vi) improved maintenance operations, and the
introduction of preventive maintenance systems for plant and machinery;
(vii) operation and monitoring of the pilot long-furrow irrigation schemes
and of in-field research activities; (viii) improvement of data collection
and record-keeping in all spheres of operation; and (ix) on-the-job
training for various categories of staff. The companies would be
strengthened by technical and management services by internationally
recruited firms (paras. 3.18 and 3.19). The performance of the companies
would also be strengthened by a comprehensive training program (para.
3.21).



- 35 -
D. Monitoring, Evaluation, and Reporting
4.18      SPIC, assisted by the team of technical advisors, would have
overall responsibility for monitoring, evaluation, and reporting.
Monitoring and evaluation would be carried out principally through the AWP
mechanism and the proposed mid-term review described below. Particular
attention will be paid to the progress made towards achieving the yield,
recovery, and output targets detailed in Chapter V, as well as to the
achievement of cost-effective production techniques, and to the performance
of management at the four companies. The strengthening of management,
accounting, and record-keeping systems, and the placement of the management
assistance teams (para. 3.18) would enhance SPIC's ability to monitor
operations on a regular basis and to evaluate results. Each company would
establish a small monitoring and evaluation (ME) unit, using existing
staff, which would pull together data required for ME purposes, and
coordinate ME activities throughout the company. Each MAT manager (and his
counterpart in the company) would be paired with the appropriate advisor in
SPIC - with the manager responsible for monitoring within the company, and
the SPIC advisor responsible for evaluation of results across all project
entities. Specifically, the Deputy Factory Manager would liaise with the
sugar technologist on factory operations and recovery rates; the
agricultural manager with the SPIC Agronomist on yields, cultivation
practices and research; the Principal Training officer with each company
training officer on setting and monitoring training targets by number and
skill-level of staff; and the Cost Controllers and Business Managers would
liaise with the SPIC financial advisor on ME of cost-reductions and
achievement of financial targets. In addition, under the project there
will be a review of the performance of each company every year by an
independent management consultant acceptable to IDA and an exchange of
views with IDA no later than September 30 each year on remedial measures
proposed by such consultant. SPIC will furnish IDA with quarterly progress
reports by telex in a format satisfactory to IDA. It would also prepare
the Project Completion Report no later than six months after completion of
the project. GOS acceptance of these arrangements was obtained during
negotiations.
E. Annual Work Program
4.19      The Annual Work Program (AWP), which would cover all project
components, would be a key project implementation mechanism and is
described in Annex 7. It would include (i) a detailed review of project
progress in the current year, (ii) a detailed description of project
activities in the forthcoming year, including objectives, deployment of
equipment and staff, (iii) detailed requirements of equipment, supplies and
manpower, (iv) a budget covering both project and non-project operations,
and (v) a financing plan includ'ng foreign and local currency requirements
and budgetary support required from GOS. The AWPs would enable GOS to
review progress, scrutinize forthcoming programs and provide the necessary
budgetary and other support needed for the project. The AWP mechanism has
been successfully applied in ongoing IDA irrigation projects.



- 36 -
4.20      Among the principal issues to be addressed in the AWP reviews
would be the level of sugar prices, access to foreign exchange, the
performance of the marketing system, the physical, financial and management
performance of the four companies, compensation packages for company staff
and harvesting labor, and institutional and manpower development.
4.21      For the first year of implementation, an AWP would be prepared by
the companies no later than August 31, 1984 and submitted by GOS to IDA by
October 31, 1984. While the work program for the first year has been
largely worked out already, the AWP document will not be required until
October 31, 1984 to give time to Government to obtain full agreement from
all concerned entities. AWPs for 1985/86 onwards would be submitted to GOS
by March 1 and to IDA by May 1 each year for acceptance, to cover the
ensuing financial year beginning July 1. Assurances were obtained from GOS
during negotiations of acceptance of these arrangements.
F. Mid-Term Review
4.22      It was agreed with GOS during negotiations that a project
mid-term review will be conducted jointly by GOS and the sugar companies,
and IDA no later than December 31, 1986. The purpose of this review will
be to assess performance under the project and progress towards developing
the autonomy of the companies, and to resolve any technical and
institutional issues which may arise during the implementation period.
Particular issues to be covered include: (i) progress in achieving
production targets set under the project; (ii) adequacy of sugar prices and
marketing arrangements and progress towards total decontrol; (iii) access
to foreign exchange for the project entities; (iv) management and financial
performance of the four sugar companies; (v) performance of new cane
varieties; (vi) resolution of the ground-heave problem at Sennar and
Assalaya; (vii) progress achieved in attracting labor for cane-cutting;
(viii) case for area expansion at Sennar and Assalaya; (ix) introduction
of revised irrigation layouts, based on performance of the 300 feddan pilot
plots; (x) adequacy of incentives for tenants at Guneid; (xi) institutional
arrangements for irrigation management; (xii) progress in re-structuring
staffing of the four companies; (xiii) scope for privatizing equity holding
in the sugar companies; and (xiv) progress in plans for the utilization of
surplus molasses for ethanol production and feed-stock processing. Project
components would be modified where required, and funds re-allocated if
necessary. Preparation of an investment plan for the sector for the period
through 1995 would also be undertaken.
CHAPTER V
Sugar Production, Marketing, and Pricing
A. Sugar Production
5.01      Table 8 summarizes the expected crop areas, average yields, cane
production, average extraction rates, and total sugar output of all four



- 37 -
companies with and without the project. Detailed projections by company
are presented in Annex 5.2.
Table 8
Output of the four Sugar Companies - With and Without Project
Year 5          Year 5
1982/83      With Project    Without Project
Mill Cane Area                  59,645         88,000           76,600
(feddans)
Average Yield                     24.5           36.4             29.3
(tons/fd)
Total Cane Production       1,459,720       3,202,500        2,248,200
(tons)
Recovery Factor                    9.0            9.9              8.2
Total Sugar Output (tons)     131,900         316,730          184,860
5.02      Total area under command at the four schemes would not be
expanded under the project, although the area planted to cane is increased
by 48%, as a result of reduced fallow areas. The availability of more
cultivation machinery and of more reliable water supply would allow this
28,350 feddans of additional land to be planted and harvested.
5.03      Yields would increase substantially under the project, from a
current average of 24.5 tons/feddan to 36.4 tons/feddan by 1988/89,
principally because of the improved supply of inputs, especially of
irrigation water, and to a lesser extent because of improved cultivation
practices, the more efficient application of fertilizers and herbicides,
and improved irrigation practices. In the longer run, improvements may
also be expected with the introduction of new cane varieties, although this
will not have a significant effect during the project period.
5.04      As a result of increased cane area and improved yields, total
sugarcane production is projected to more than double by 1988/89. Final
output of sugar increases even more as average recovery rates in process
climb from 9% to 10%, as a result of the rehabilitation of factory
equipment, and improved reliability of cane supply due to expansion of the
cane harvesting and transport fleets.
5.05      Total sugar output of the four schemes is forecast to increase by
140% under the project, from 131,900 tons in 1982/83 to 316,730 tons in
1988/89. Forty-five percent of this increase is attributable to an
increase in cane area, thirty-nine percent to improved yields, and sixteen
percent to more efficient recovery of sugar from cane.
B. Marketing
5.06      The purchase and marketing of sugar in the Sudan is a Government
monopoly under the Public Corporation for Sugar Trading (PCST), which is



- 38 -
responsible for purchasing local production and imports of sugar,
distributing sugar through the country, and selling at specified wholesale
prices. The PCST purchases the entire output of the four public-sector
estates on an 'in-factory store' basis. The Corporation operates a network
of regional storage depots located at each of the major population centers,
in addition to large stores operated by the sugar estates at each of the
factories. The PCST is only responsible for distribution as far as the
regional stores. Wholesale and retail distribution was and continues to be
the responsibility of local governments and of the Ministry for
Cooperation, Commerce and Supply (MCCS).
5.07      Levels of permitted consumption are determined annually in the
form of regional quotas - which currently total about 500,000 tons -
although quotas have not been filled in recent years due to the shortage of
foreign exchange for imports. The system of regional quotas and PCST's
responsibility for distribution was intended to ensure that sugar is
available at regulated prices throughout the country. In practice an
unofficial market has developed because supplies to remote areas are
inadequate. Much of the sugar appears to enter this market after leaving
PCST's control, i.e. at the wholesale and retail level, although with
current accounting and information systems, it is difficult to trace sugar
losses.
5.08      During negotiations GOS clarified that effective July 1, 1984,
the companies would be free to sell their output directly, subject to
Government allocation and pric. ng procedures; and that if they sell to PCST
they will receive the full producer price, as they would from any other
wholesaler. This should place only a limited additional burden on the
companies in terms of billing and accounting requirements, which can be
readily handled as part of the technical assistance being provided for the
development of accounting systems. In the longer run the market should be
freed entirely, with the factories allowed to sell their production on the
open market. In the interim, however, there must remain a degree of
regulation so as to ensure that supplies of sugar are available in remote
areas. Progress towards decontrol would be monitored through the AWP
mechanism and at the project mid-term review.
C. Pricing
5.09      At present, both producer and consumer prices for sugar are set
administratively without reference to either costs or economic efficiency
criteria.-- Consumer prices are roughly at import parity levels (at the
official exchange rate), while producer prices are well below such levels.
5.10      The present pricing mechanism  is fraught with distortions.  The
composition of prices for 1982/83 was as follows:



- 39 -
LSd/ton    Z
Consumer price                          573.20    100
(-) Distribution margins                 73.20     12
(-} Government Share                    250.00     44
= Producer price (gross)                250.00     44
(-) Excise Duty at 15%                   37.50      7
(-) Irrigation and other
Governmental charges                75.00     13
- Payment to factories (net)            137.50      24
The nominal producer price was raised from LSd 250/ton to LSd 400/ton for
1983/84 season, but the pattern of deductions outlined above continue and
the net payment to the factory will be about LSd 265/ton.
5.11      The average cost of production during 1983/84 is estimated at LSd
467/ton. The present price mechanism would prevent the companies from
generating sufficient revenues to purchase inputs and therefore
continuation of this mechanism would be at the expense of the industry's
financial and operational viability. Clearly this situation cannot persist
if the companies are to operate on a commercial basis.
5.12      Recognizing these concerns, Government have recently accepted the
principle of import parity pricing for producer prices. The price adopted
will be based on the six year historical moving average (adjusted for
international inflation) of the daily international6/ price using an
exchange rate which reflects the rates applicable to the principal imported
inputs for the industry in the previous year. Adjustments of this price
will be considered in light of the cost of production of an efficient
producer and the financial viability of the companies, bearing in mind the
excise duties on sugar.
5.13      The implications of import parity prices on the relationship
between prices and production costs are depicted in the table below:
Table 9
Sugar Producer and Consumer Price Levels (LSd/ton)
Cost of Production              Import Parity Prices
Guneid N.Halfa Sennar Assalaya  Average   Producer Consumer
1983/84         618    469      428    393       467        526       589
1988/89 a/      442    371      327    336       343        643       716
1988/89 b/      944    793      697    717       733      1,460     1,616
a/ 1983 Constant Prices.
b/ Current prices.
6/ The international price used will be the London daily price for raws,
corrected by the addition of a white sugar premium.



- 40 -
5.14      The table shows that adoption of import parity prices would cover
fully the production costs of the sugar companies, and would in fact leave
adequate margin for the imposition of excise duties. The level of prices
and excise duties would take account of the cost of production of an
efficient producer, and would need to be regulated in order to safeguard
the financial viability of each of the sugar companies. Any excess profits
accruing to lower-costs producers would be partly captured by taxes on
profits and dividends on Government equity. During negotiations the
Government confirmed that it is continuing to actively pursue, whenever
feasible, its declared policy of eliminating consumer subsidies.
5.15      The adjustment to parity prices would take place when producer
prices for 1984/85 are announced. The acceptability to IDA of the level of
such prices would be a condition of project effectiveness. Thereafter,
producer prices would be announced after consultation with SCG no later
than October 1 each year. Such prices would be based on the principles set
out in paras. 5.12 and 5.14 above and would be announced after consultation
with IDA.
5.16      The projected producer prices, based on import parity prices
would incr--ase each year during the project as the result of a number of
factors: true move to import parity pricing, inflation effecting
internatioaal and domestic transport costs, and adjustments in the forecast
exchange rate. The producer price series forecast for the purposes of
financial projections is given in Annex 3.
5.17      The forecast adjustment of producer prices (para. 5.16) results
in an annual average nominal increase in consumer prices of 17% per annum;
this corresponds to a real increase of only 12% over the project period.
Chapter VI
Financial Analysis
A. Financial Results for the four Sugar Companies
Current Financial Situation
6.01      At present the sugar production units have no control over their
own finances, they are unable to retain their own revenues, to borrow
commercially, or to purchase foreign exchange. Operating costs are met
partially by budgetary transfers from the Ministry of Finance, partially by
accummulating overdrafts at the Bank of Sudan, and to a limited extent by
receipts from sugar sales. Since the ex-factory producer price is set well
below the costs of production this has led to severe cash shortages,
substantial annual losses, and accummulated debts with the Bank of Sudan.
The four factories incurred estimated losses of LSd 26 million in 1980/81
and LSd 22 million in 1981/82, and were liable for a LSd 85.4 million
overdraft by the end of September 1982. Under existing arrangements the
companies could not conceivably operate on a commercial basis.



- 41 -
Financial Structure
6.02      The Project would support financial restructuring of the
Companies. The outstanding debt to GOS would be capitalized to the
extent that it relates to past purchase of assets and written off to the
extent that such debt has been incurred as a result of operating losses.
GOS's equity in the four companies would then be taken to consist of the
net going concern value of assets at the time of formation of the
companies. The initial balance sheets of the companies (para. 4.12) would
reflect the above measures. The provision of finance to the companies
under the project would then be based on a judicious blend of on-lending
terms (para. 3.33) to achieve the desired mix of debt and equity in the
long run. The composition of new debt and equity injections under the
project, which is shown in Annex 3.5, results in a debt-equity ratio for
each of the companies of 1:1. Agreement was reached during negotiations to
limit the amount of any debt incurred by each company, in addition to
project finances, to an amount that would result in a debt-equity ratio of
at least 1:1, and to ensure that net income would be at least 1.5 times
debt-service payments in any year.
6.03      With the revision of pricing arrangements (paras. 5.12 to 5.17),
the adoption of depreciation based on replacement value (para. 4.12), and
the revised structure of the capital base of the companies, the firms would
be able to fully cover costs, generate surficient cash to retire debts on
schedule and to maintain assets.
Projected Financial Results
6.04      The projected financial flows for the four companies are shown in
Annexes 3.2 and 3.3. Table 10 below depicts the commercial and financial
viability of projected operations:
Table 10
Financial Performance of Companies
Guneid      New Halfa       Sennar      Assalaya
Net Income (current LSd Million)
(after taxes)
1984/85                     -8.0         -3.6            0.1           1.7
1989/90                      3.8          8.3           14.0          13.2
Net Cash Flow a/ (current LSd Million)
1984/85                     -5.9         -1.6            3.6           6.0
1989/90                      4.9           7.2          11.3          11.3
Rate of Return on Net Fixed
Assets (X)                11.6         21.4           27.1           21.1



- 42 -
Operating Expenses!
Revenues
1984/85                     1.29         1.02           0.83         0.70
1989/90                     0.66         0.55           0.46         0.45
Debt Service Coverage
1989/90                     2.12         2.65           3.03         2.97
Debt to Equity Ratio
1988/89                     0.99         0.92           1.02         1.00
a/ See Annex 3.3.
B. Other Project Entities' Financial Results
6.05      Various other Government agencies involved in project execution
(ARC, the Ministry of Industry, the Sennar Training Center) will obtain
cash inflows from GOS in the form of budgetary transfers to cover capital
costs of rehabilitation along with incremental operating costs during the
project period.
C. Government Cash Flows
6.06      The proposed project will effect GovernmenL income and
expenditures in a number of ways: it will result in savings due to reduced
imports of sugar; the Government will no longer have to absorb the annual
operating losses of the sugar companies; at the same time Government will
lose the revenue it has been generating through the differential pricing cf
sugar. Under the proposed financial arrangements, Government inflows would
consist of excise duty, corporate taxes, and dividends paid by the
companies, as well as interest and principal repayments on on-lent funds,
and the concessional capital finances provided by international and
bilateral agencies. Government outflows would consist of repayment and
debt-service on the concessional loans, equity injections and funds on-lent
to the companies, budgetary capital transfers to MOI, MOAI, and ARC, the
recurrent operating costs of the Sennar Training Institute and the Guneid
Research Station, and any consumer subsidy required if the consumer price
falls below the producer price of sugar. The net effect of these changes
is presented in Annex 3.5 and 3.6. These show that over the first ten
years of the project Government cash inflows exceed outflows by LSd 6887/
million, or an average of LSd 69 7/ million per year. In addition, the
Government avoids the accumulation of an estimated LSd 116.5 million in
further overdrafts at the Bank of Sudan by placing the companies on a sound
financial footing. Under the proposed arrangements there would be no
further need for operating subsidies to the companies.
7/ In current LSd.



- 43 -
D. Guneid - Financial Relations with Tenants
6.07      There are 2,364 tenant farmers registered with 37,219 feddans in
total, an average of 15 feddans per tenant. Each tenant is responsible for
planting, irrigation, fertilizing, weeding and pest control, although in
fact, some if not all of these operations are performed by the Corporation
on behalf of those tenants who are absentees. Each tenant has a personal
account into which all direct costs relating to the production of cane
after applying a subsidy factor (presently 50%) are deleted as well as
loans and sundry items. Revenue for harvested cane is credited to the
tenant at the end of the season and the net balance settled.
6.08      Specific direct cost components are calculated and applied in a
number of ways: chemicals and fertilizers are issued in bulk against a
materials requisition. Details of the individual issues are supplied for
costing and charging to each tenant's personal account. All other direct
costs such as ploughing, planting, weeding, and canal maintenance are
charged to tenants on an average cost per feddan basis, calculated by
dividing the total costs by the total feddans cultivated. The effect of
the subsidy factor and the low price for cane is tantamount to a
partnership arrangement similar to the Joint Account in cotton with all the
same inherent disadvantages of a lack of incentive pricing and cross-
subsidization. The project would remedy these defects by introducing an
Individual Account system. Full costs would be charged, and revenues would
reflect import parity prices at the farmgate, and provided the farmer
produces above a break-even yield, then incentive pricing comes into play.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that an Individual Account System
acceptable to IDA would be introduced by June 30, 1985.
CHAPTER VII
Project Benefits and Economic Analysis
A. Production Benefits
7.01      The area expansion, yield improvement, and additional production
anticipated under the Project is shown in Table 8 and in Annex 5.2. The
project would generate net foreign exchange savings of US$67 million per
year after completion (1989 constant prices). Annex 3.6 gives details of
the GOS's incremental foreign exchange savings under the Project. The
Project could thus be expected to improve the balance of payments situation
substantially, and this is its prime justification. The Project will also
result in a net resource saving to the country as it lowers the average
cost of production of domestically produced sugar by increasing factory
output to near capacity levels. Furthermore, the project contributes to
the mobilization of domestic resources, as the Government retains some of
the potential surplus generated by the sugar sector.



- 44 -
B. Other Benefits
7.02      Expansion of production at the four public sector sugar estates
would result in the creation of an estimated 1,150 additional jobs in the
central Sudan, yielding a total increase in employment income of about LSd
2.2 million per annum by 1989/90. In addition there will be a need for
approximately 5,320 cane-cutters on a seasonal basis, thus providing an
an important income-earning opportunity for unskilled migrants from the
poorer southern and western areas of the country.
7.03      Rehabilitation and expansion of production under the project at
Guneid would directly benefit the 2,365 tenant farmers on the sugar estate
there. Tentative estimates show that average tenancy incomes would rise
from about LSd 400 in 1983/84 to about LSd 950 (1983 prices) in 1989/90.
7.04      Improved social welfare and living conditions for 11,000 migrant
cane cutters and other seasonal labor would result from the provision of
proper housing, water supply, and sanitation services to laborer's villages
under the project.  The social welfare of ov.,z 100,000 residents of the
sugar estates would be improved by the expansion of health and education
services, and the construction of community market places.
C. Economic Analysis
7.05      The economic rate of return is 40%.  This is significantly above
the opportunity cost of capital in Sudan which is currently estimated to be
around 12 or 13%. The high economic rate of return reflects the very large
marginal benefits to be gained from rehabilitation which are a natural
function of the large amount of sunk capital at the four sugar schemes.
The economic rate of return for individual companies range from 36% for
Guneid to 65% for Sennar.
7.06      The principal assumptions employed in the economic analysis are
as follows:
(i)  Without Project Situation:
It is assumed that without rehabilitation, the sugar estates will
continue to produce using the same area of land and the same
production methods currently employed. However the companies
would accumulate even greater debts, and would not be in a
position to replace obsolete machinery, and would face continuing
shortages of critical inputs. As a consequence, they could not
be expected to perform significantly better than they have done
in the 1982/83 season; crushing rates would likely fall over the
next five years, although some marginal improvements in yields
would be expected as a result of improved practices and power
supply. Details of without project projections are presented in
Annex 5.2.



- 45 -
(ii)  Prices:
The import parity price is assumed for sugar outputs (para
5.12). The price used is based on a six year moving average of
the international sugar price, as detailed in Annex 2a. Foreign
costs and benefits are valued at an exchange rate of LSd 1.9/US$,
and the local currency component of capital costs and benefits
has been converted to border prices using a conversion factor of
0.75. Incremental operating costs of the sugar companies were
shadow priced using a conversion factor of 0.88, reflecting a
weighted average of estimated accounting ratios applicable to the
principle categories of inputs consumed.
(iii)  Project Life:
The economic life of the project is assumed to be 20 years.
Replacement of Project assets with economic lives shorter than
that period is included.
D. Project Risks
7.07      While the project is subject to a limited number of specific
physical risks, it is particularly susceptible to financial and
organizational risks. Since successful project implementation depends
critically on institutional and policy reforms, the project is extremely
sensitive to failures in this area. Any of the following could
significantly erode potential project benefits:
-    failure to adjust sugar prices sufficiently;
-    failure to allow the companies sufficient autonomy;
-    uncertainty over distribution arrangements;
-    insufficient estate-level management capability to handle the
demands of operating on a commercial basis.
-    failure to implement effective preventive maintenance programs
for machinery and equipment;
-    failure to retain skilled irrigation engineers in the event that
irrigation operations are transferred to the companies.
7.08      Physical risks are less of a threat to the project, especially
since seasonal fluctuations are almost non-existant in the Sudan, so that
the principal remaining problems are crop suitability and the provision of
water. If all of the institutional and policy reforms are undertaken then
subject to the general remarks below (para 7.09), there should be no
problem with the provision of inputs. However, the new smut-resistant
varieties may not prove viable under Sudanese conditions, and productivity
of existing varieties could decline, and this would reduce yields in the
longer run. Despite offering improved conditions, the estates may still



- 46 -
face a sporadic supply of labor for cane-cutting, and this could also have
adverse effects on output. If the forecast yields are not achieved at
Sennar and Asalaya, then the cane area will have to be expanded at these
two estates in order that the factories may operate near capacity. This
would entail further capital costs and a reduced rate of return. A final
physical risk relates to the ground-heave problem at Sennar and Assalaya
(paras. 2.29 and 2.33), however, technical studies indicate that this is a
negligible risk, if detailed designs for rectification are drawn up by a
competent technical firm.
7.09      In addition to the specific risks outlined above, there are a
number of general constraints which are national in character, and which
may also effect the project. In particular, these are: shortages of
foreign exchange; shortages of fuel; a lack of skilled manpower; and
transport and delivery bottlenecks effecting the procurement of goods.
These risks effect all undertakings in the Sudan; however the Government
has given assurances that it will give the project entities high priority
in all of these areas. Sensitivity analysis shows that the project would
still be economically viable if costs rose by 93% or benefits dropped by
48%.
7.10      The project has been designed in such a way as to address the
identified risks. Firm commitments have been received from the Government
on the revision of prices, access to foreign exchange and the grant of
autonomy for the companies. Ample technical personnel are provided to
assist with the development of accounting, managerial and maintenance
systems, and to train local managers and technicians in their use.
Conditions are being improved for cane-cutters, and funds provided to
Improve labor mobilization. The enhanced research program will reduce the
risk of unsuitable cane varieties being introduced, and rectification of
the ground-heave problem at Sennar and A-salaya is included in the
project. Particular conditions of the proposed project are outlined in the
following chapter.
CHAPTER VIII
Summary of Agreements
8.01      During appraisal, agreement was reached that GOS would
complete formal establishment of the four estates as independent companies
and this has now been accomplished (para. 2.07).
8.02      During negotiations agreement was reached that:
(i) GOS and the Companies will prepare detailed design for
ground-heave rectification at Sennar and Assalaya by
December 31, 1984 with the assistance of consultants acceptable
to IDA (para. 3.25).
(ii) GOS will obtain, by December 31, 1984, appropriate notification
showing that all conditions precedent to the disbursement of
US$23.5 million (in addition to the US$64.5 million referred to



- 47 -
in 8.03 (ii)) from external donors have been fulfilled, thus,
securing access to the full US$88.0 million in required
co-financing (para. 3.34);
(iii) GOS and the sugar companies will follow procurement procedures
for goods and services prescribed for the project, and hire
technical services in accordance with IDA guidelines (paras.
3.35-3-39).
(iv)  GOS and the sugar companies would recruit firms to provide
Management Assistance and Training Services by October 31, 1984
(para. 3.18) on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Such
recruitment will be on the basis of competitive selection from a
list of pre-qualified firms having qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA (para. 3.39).
(v) The Sudan Sugar Board will be established and an Executive
Director and Secretary with experience and qualifications
satisfactory to IDA will be appointed prior to Board presentation
(para. 4.02);
(vi)  GOS will transfer ownership of assets used to operate pump
stations and major canals from MOAI to the sugar companies no
later than July 1, 1985 (para. 4.07).
(vii) GOS will implement collaborative arrangements between PPC, SPIC
and the project entities, as set out in Annex 12 (para. 4.09).
(viii) GOS will ensure that the sugar companies have access to essential
imported recurrent inputs, including sufficient supplies of fuel
to operate the factories, field equipment and the electrical
generators (para. 4.11). (GOS clarified that while these Inputs
are normally procured with foreign exchange made available by the
Bank of Sudan and/or foreign assistance, there is no prohibition
on companies incorporated under the 1924 Companies Ordinance
which would restrict them from obtaining foreign exchange from
other legal foreign exchange sources.)
(ix)  Each of the companies will furnish initial balance sheets based
on principles acceptable to IDA no later than March 31, 1985
(para. 4.12).
(x) The four public sector sugar companies will provide unaudited
financial statements within six months of the close of each
project year, and audited financial statements and an independent
auditors' opinion and report to IDA within nine months of the
close of each fiscal year (para. 4.12), such independent auditor
to be acceptable to IDA (para. 4.13). Such accounts for the four
companies will reflect depreciation on a replacement value basis
(para. 4.12).
(xi) For other project entities, GOS will provide IDA with unaudited
financial statements within 6 months, and audited financial



- 48 -
statements with an independent auditors comments and report
within nine months, of the end of each fiscal year. GOS will
arrange for audit to be completed by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, in the event that the Auditor General reports
that an audit for which his office is responsible cannot be
completed within three months of receipt of accounts (paras. 4.14
and 4.15).
(xii) GOS will furnish, during the project implementation period,
quarterly progress reports, by telex, in a format satisfactory to
IDA, and a project completion report within six months of the
completion of the project (para. 4.18).
(xiii) GOS will arrange for a review of the performance of each company
every year by an independent management consultant acceptable to
IDA and hold an exchange of views with IDA no later than
September 30 each year on remedial measures proposed by such
consultant (para. 4.18).
(xiv) The companies and GOS will prepare Annual Work Programs for
project entities in 1984/85 no later than August 31, 1984, and
GOS will submit to IDA for acceptance, an AWP covering all
project components for 1984/85 by October 31, 1984. Thereafter
AWP's will be submitted to GOS by March 1 and to IDA for
acceptance by May 1 each year, to cover the ensuing project year
(para. 4.21).
(xv) GOS, in cooperation with the sugar companies, will conduct,
jointly with IDA, a mid-term review of the project no later than
December 31, 1986 (para. 4.22).
(xvi) The companies will be permitted to market their production
directly, subject to Government allocation and pricing
procedures, and will receive the full producer price for their
production (para. 5.08);
(xvii) GOS will:
(a) use the principle of import parity pricing for determining the
producer price for sugar on the basis of a six-year historical
moving average (adjusted for international inflation) of the
daily international sugar price (London daily price for raw sugar
adjusted by the White Sugar Premium). The import parity price
would be calculated using an exchange rate which reflects the
rates applicable to the recurrent imported inputs to the sugar
industry in the previous year.
(b) adjust this price taking into account the cost of production of
an efficient producer, and the financial viability of the sugar
companies, bearing in mind the excise duties on sugar.



- 49 -
(c) announce such producer prices not later than October 1 each year,
starting in 1985, after consultation with IDA (paras. 5.12, 5.14
and 5.15).
(xviii) the sugar companies will not incur any debt if such debt shall
result in:
(a)  the debt-equity ratio for that company rising above 1:1, or
(b) in the companies net revenues becoming less than 1.5 times the
maximum debt-service requirement in any succeeding year (para.
6.02).
(xix) GOS and Guneid Sugar Companv will ensure that an individual
account system at Guneid, on a basis acceptable to IDA, is
introduced by June 30, 1985 (para. 6.08).
8.03      The following would be conditions of effectiveness:
{i) Execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreements, acceptable to IDA,
governing the onlending of project funds to the sugar companies
(para. 3.33).
(ii) Evidence satisfactory to IDA, that all conditions precedent to
the disbursement of US$64.5 million from external donors for the
project, save effectiveness thereof, have been fulfilled (para.
3.34).
(iii) Announcement of a producer price for 1984/85 satisfactory to IDA
in accordance with the principles described in para. 5.12 (para.
5.15).
8.04      With these conditions and assurances, the project would be
suitable for a Credit of US$60 million to GOS on standard IDA terms.



Annex la
SUDAN
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project CaoPenwt by Time
(LS '000)
Totals I cludins Cantingencies              Total
84/85     95/96    86/87   87/n   88989        LSD    CUSS '000)
A. AGRICLtTURE
CULTIVATION EGUIPMENT                79617.0   4,784.0 49517.7 3.615.5 1,324.3   21,959.5  119544.0
HAMVESING I TRMNSPORT EGUIPHENT     21S945.5   7,702.0 6,900.8 4i955.9 19326.4   424760.6  23,360.5
mISC EGUIP (AGRIC)                  11i020.6   3.293.1  39300.5   401.6   676.5   19,892.3  10,487.6
VEHICLES                               490.9     862.1   712.3   935.2   416.4    3.416.7   1,712.9
FIELD VORKSHOP                         906.2   1067.1  1,227.8       -        -    3.201.O   19720.7
ESTATE BUILDINGS                     3.320.5   5,523.1   203.6       -        -    99047.1   5,035.4
Sub-Total AGRICULTURE                  45,300.6  23,231.4 16,962.6  9,838.2 3,943.6   99,176.4  53,961.3
D. IRRIGATION
REHABILITATItN I NEIU WORK           7i016.0  11,Y191.1  7,061.4  19879.4 2.434.5   29,582.4  15,570.7
PEER 6EERATIDN                       1,395.4  10,291.1  2.152.2      -        -   134929.I   7,423.4
SitTotal IRRIGATION                     9,401.4  21,482.2  9t213.6 1,r79.4 2,434.5   43,411.2  22,994.1
C. FACTORY
DUCKAU VOIF PROAHE                  25sB56.1         -       -       -        -   25,956.1  15,299.5
ADDITIONAL REDUIREtENTS                 14.1   5,685.8       - 9.779.6        -   14,479.S   7.092.6
STOCK SPARES                         4,425.4   5,209.5 6,666.1       -        -   16,300.9   9.735.8
REHABILITATION I                     2P399.9   2,974.6       -       -        -    S,374.5   3.019.3
REHAILITATION II                     1,499.9   3,772.1       - 3,072.9        -    8.333.9   4,318.6
REHABILITATION III                     139.3     351.5       -       -        -      489.9     270.8
BAASSE STORE                         1,707.9  - 2,011.0 2,313.5      -        -    69032.4   3,242.9
SUPERSTRUCTURE                       2,570.1   2.603.7   224.2   271.0   692.4    6s352.3   3,444.9
GR3N  HEAVE RECTIFICATION            4I138.3   4.872.4       -       -        -    9,010.7   5,069.3
Sub-Total FACTORY                      429739.9  27,480.6 9,203.7 12m123.5   682.4   92,230.1  509492.5
D. INFRASTRUCTURE
RADS,COIUJNICATIOMS I ELEC.          3P016.7   2,188.5   238.3       -        -    5,443.5   3-090.2
HOUSING I SERVICES                   30761.7   6,605.2 4,724.9 2,629.6        -   17,721.4   9,334.0
SOCIAL IWFRASTRUCTURE                Ir191.B   2,106.2  1,394.7 1,297.9       -    5,970.6   3,117.3
;aSC EWUIPIINT                         270.1     277.9    20.9       -    77.5       646.4     352.3
Sit-Total INFRASTRUCTURE                UP240.3  11,177.8 6,368.7 3,917.5    77.5   29,7B1.9  15,883.8
E. SUPPORT SERVICES
OFFICE EDUIPNENT                       785.1   3,139.1  1,157.3   293.4  2,130.2    79495.1   3,756.8
TECHNICAL SERVICES                   9.934.4  10,505.5 10,447.9  7,002.8 7,321.7   449212.2  22,434.3
Sit-otal SUPPORT SERVICES               9i719.5  139644.7 11,605.1  7v286.2 9,451.9   51.707.3  26,191.1
F. SUGA CANE RESEARCH
LAD EOUIPIIENT                            -      514.1       -       -        -      514.1     276.4
EOUIPIIEJT I BUILDINGS                 446.6     577.2     9.7       -   729.4    1.763.0    B97.2
Su-Total SUGAR CANE RESEARCH              446.6   1,091.4     9.7       -   729.4    2,77.1   1,163.6
S. PROMECT IIYLETATION TEN              3U624.2   2,501.9 2,517.7   232.9        -    89876.6   4,949.0
M. TRAINIG
mm1W TRAINING CENTRE                   838.4     989.1   129.4       -        -    1.956.9   1,092.3
TA PERSIOIEL                         1,369.5   1,610.4 19B49.9 1,777.7   445.4    7,051.9   3,599.4
EXTERNML TRAINING                      360.6     424.0   496.8   559.6   644.9    2,475.8   1,212.3
Sui-Total TRAINING                      2w568.5   3,023.4 2,465.1 29337.3 1,090.2   11,484.6   5,903.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                     121,041.0 103,633.4 59,249.2 37.615.1 189409.5  338,945.2 181.339.4
Harch 1t 1984 17:02



- 51 -                      Annex lb
Project Costs
(US$ millions, including all contingencies)
New
Guneid        Haifa         Sennar       Assalaya        Total
AGRICULTURE:              10.0  (8.4)  12.6 (10.6)  14.2 (11.9)  17.0 (14.3)  53.9 (45.2)
Cultivation Equip.         2.0  (1.7)   2.5  (2.1)   3.1  (2.5)   3.9  (3.4)  11.5  (9.8)
Harvesting & Transp.
Equip.                   4.4  (3.8)   4.7  (4.0)   6.8  (5.8)   7.4  (6.3)  23.4 (19.9)
Misc. Agric.& Const.
Equip.                   2.5  (2.1)   2.1  (1.8)   2.3  (2.0)   3.5  (3.0)  10.5  (8.9)
Vehicles                   0.4  (0.3)   0.4  (0.3)   0.3  (0.3)  10.6  (0.5)   1.7  (1.4)
Workshop Equip.            0.4  (0.3)   0.4  (0.3)   0.4  (0.3)   0.4  (0.3)   1.7  (1.2)
Estate Buildings &
Workshops                0.2  (0.2)   2.5  (2.0)   1.3  (0.9)   1.1  (0.8)   5.0  (3.9)
IRRIGATION:                6.0  (4.8)   2.0  (1.1)   7.1  (5.4)   7.8  (5.5)  23.0 (16.8)
Rehab. & New Works         3.5  {2.7)   2.0  (1.1)   3.4  (2.4)   2.9  (1.9)  11.8  (8.1)
Power Generation           2.5  (2.1)    -       -     3.7  (3.0)   4.9  (3.6)  11.2  (8.7)
FACTORY:                  15.6 (13.3)  16.3 (14.0)   8.6  (6.6)  10.0  (7.6)  50.5 (41.5)
Buckau Wolf Program        7,0  (6.7)   8.3  (7.9)    -                -           15.3 (14.6)
Additional Require.        3.3  (2.3)   3.8  (2.8)    -        -       -     -      7.1  (5.1)
Stock Spares               3.4  (2.8)   2.1  (1.8)   1.6   1.3    1.6   1.3    8.7  (7.2)
Rehab. Program                     -         -         3.8  (2.7)   3.8  (2.6)   7.6  (5.3)
Bagasse Stores             0.7  (0.6)   0.7  (0.6)   1.0  (0.8)   0.7  (0.6)   3.2  (2.6)
Superstructure             1.2  (0.9)   1.2  (0.9)   0.5  (0.4)   0.5  (0.4)   3.4  (2.6)
Ground-Heave Rectif.        -      -      -      -     1.7  (1.4)   3.4  (2.7)   5.1  (4.1)
INFRASTRUCTURE:            3.6  (2.1)   3.0  (1.8)   2.6  (1.4)   6.9  (3.9)  15.9  (9.2)
Commun. & Elec.           0-.9  (0.7)   0.9  (0.7)   0.5  (0.4)   0.9  (0.7)   3.1  (2.5)
Housing & Services         1.9  (1.0)   1.5  (0.8)   1.2  (0.7)   4.7  (2.6)   9.3  (5.1)
Social Infrast.            0.7  (0.3)   0.5  (0.2)   0.7  (0.3)   1.1  (0.5)   3.1  (1.3)
Maintenance Equip.         0.1  (0.1)   0.1  (0.1)   0.1  (0.1)   0.1  (0.1)   0.4  (0.4)
SUPPORT SERVICES:          6.5  (6.3)   6.5  (6.3)   6.5  (6.3)   6.5  (6.3)  26.2 (25.2)
Office Equip.              0.9  (0.7)   0.9  (0.7)   0.9  (0.7)   0.9  (0.7)   3.8  (2.8)
Tech. & Mgt. Services    5.6  (5.6)   5.6  (5.6)   5.6  (5.6)   5.6  (5.6)  22.4 (22.4)
PROJECT IHPLEMENTATION:   -        -      -      -      -      -       -     -      4.8  (4.4)
Advisory Team (SPIC)
TRAINING:                   -      -      -      -      -      -       -     -      5.9  (5.4)
RESEARCH:                   -      -      -      -      -      -       -     -      1.2  (0.9)
TOTAL                     41.7 (34.9)  40.4 (33.8)  39.0 (31.6)  48.2 (37.6) 181.3(148.8)
Note: Figures in parentheses (-) are foreign exchange portion of costs.



- 52 -
Annex 2a
SUDAN
Sugar Rehabilitation Project
Current Financial Prices
1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89
International Price         341       372       406          445       488        533
(USS/ton)
Ex-Factory Import           525       737        883       1,041      1,232     1,450
Parity Price (LSd/Ton)



- 53 -                     Annex 2b
SUDAN
Sugar Rehabilitation Project
Composition of Import Parity Price
1983/84
6 Year Average Price                      301
FOB Europe (US$)
W. Sugar Premium ($)                       40
W. Sugar Price                             341
Transp. & Misc. Charges ($)                37
C&F Port Sudan                        $   378
C&F Port Sudan                        LSd 491
Insurance etc. at 2.5Z (LSd)               12
Transport and Storage
Port Sudan - Khartoum (LSd)                49
LSd 552
Less
Transport Factory - Khartoum             27
Ex-Factory Import Parity Price      LSd 525



- 54 -                    Annex 2c
SUDAN
Sugar Rehabilitation Project
Composition of Consumer Price - 1982/83
(LSd/ton)
Retail Price                                         573.20
Retailers Margin                   22.05
Wholesaler's Margin                16.15
PCST's Selling Price                                 535.00
PCST's Costs                       35.00
Govt. Share of
PCST Profit                     250.00
Stated Producer Price                                250.00
Excise Duty                        37.50
Actual Producer Price                                212.50
Average Cost of Production                           469.65
(at four estates)



- 55 -
Annex 3.1
SUDAN
Sugar Rehabilitation Project
Estimated Price Contingency and Foreign Exchange Rates
Price Contingencies                1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89
(a)  Foreign Exchange Costs (X)    7.2        6.5       6.0      6.0       6.0
(b)  Local Currency Costs (Z)       20.0     17.0      15.0     15.0      15.0
Exchange Rate (LSd/US$)         1.69     1.86      2.01     2.18      2.37
Price Adjustments Prior to Project Start-Up
Inflation (%)        Exchange Rate
Domestic   Foreign      (LSd/US$)
Initial Price Estimates:  June 1982            -         -           0.9
Project Base Costs:        January 1984      50.0      12.0           1.3
Project Start-Up:          July 1984         15.0       4.0           1.5



- 56 -                                   Annex 3.2a
SUB.'
SUA NERENAILITATION PROJECT
WIIEID
INCOME STATEMENT (PROFIT I LOSS ACCOUNT) a/
(LSD 000s)
Year commencing July  1                                    1984    1985    1986    1997       88    1989
INCOME
SALE OF SUGAR                                               19251.8 28658.0 41802.6 60756.3 76310.1 90221.1
LESS EXCISE DUTY                                           2887.8  4298.7  6270.4  9113.4 11446.5 13533.2
NET REVERiE                                                  16364.1 24359.3 35532.2 51642.9 64863.6 76688.0
EXPENSES
OPERATING EXPENSES
AGRICULTURE                                                    8413.7 10959.7 13883.4 17434.8 20424.3 20424.3
FACTORY                                                     4469.5  6373.2  8770.0 11912.1 146t2.2 14612.2
UORKSHOP                                                     839.3  1084.3  1364.2  1703.3  2024.1  2024.1
MOTAL DIRECT COSTS                                            13722.5 18417.2 24017.6 31050.2 3t060.6 37060.6
INDIRECT COSTS                                                 7410.2  8669.9  9970.4 11465.9 13185.8 13185.8
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                                      21132.7 27087.1 3M7.9 42516.1 50246.4 50246.4
DEPRECIATION                                                   2101.1  4652.0  6315.7  8119.3 10100.4 10264.9
DANK INTEREST                                                  1132.0  1319.5  1560.3  1805.8  1868.0  1685.7
OPERATING INCOME (PROFIT)                                     -8001.7 -8699.3 -6331.7  -798.4 2648.7 14490.9
CAPITAL INTEREST                                                    -   972.2  2612.2  3775.3  4645.8  4955.0
NET PROFIT (LOSS)                                             -8001.7 -9671.5 -8943.9 -4573.7 -1997.0  9953.2
CORPORATE TAXES                                                     -       -       -       -       -  5721.1
NET PROFIT(LOSS) AFTER TAX                                    -8001.7 -9671.5 -8943.9 -4573.7 -1997.0  3914.1
DIVIDEND                                                            -       -       -       -       -  1YD7.0
BALANCE CARRIED FORVARD  TO RESERUES                          -8001.7 -9671.5 -8943.9 -4573.7 -1997.0  1907.0
NOTE: ALL FIGURES IN THMOSANS OF CURRENT LSD UNTIL 1988189
AND CONSTANT THEREAFTER
a/ See explanatory notes following Annex 3.2d.



_ 57 -                         Annex 3.2b
sus
SUGAR REHAIILlTATIT01 PROJECT
KEU HALFA
INCOME STATEMENT (PROFIT I LOSS ACIXNT)
(LSD *000)
Year commencing July  1                                   1984   I985   1966   1987   1988    19
INCONE
SALE OF SUGAR                                           27135.2 37356.7 53665.5 69041.2 81296.2 96116.2
LESS EXCISE DUTY                                       4070.3 5603.5 8049.8 10356.2 12194.4 14417.4
NET REVENIE                                              23064.9 31753.2 45615.7 59685.1 69101.8 81698.8
EXPENSES
OPERATING EXPENSES
AGRICILTURE                                                6997.9 8356.6  9796.5 11523.4 13252.0 13.252.0
FACTORY                                                 3081.2  3859.0  4752.6 5855.9 6734.3 6734.3
WORKSHOP                                                4150.3 5012.5 5939.0 7073.9  8134.8  8134.8
TOTAL DIRECT COSTS                                        14229.4 17227.0 20488.1 24453.1 28121.1 28121.1
INDIRECT COSTS                                             9314.8 10998.4 12533.1 14413.1 16575.1 16575.1
TOTAL OPERIATING EXPENSES                                 23544.3 28125.4 33021.2 388e6.2 44696.1 44696.1
DEPRECIATION                                               1992.4  4571.3  6350.3 8086.1  9731.6  9835.8
DANK INTEREST                                              1098.4  1188.1  1280,5  1267.5  1358.1  1261.3
OPERATING INCOME (PROFIT)                                 -3570.2 -2131.7  4963.7 10465.3 13315.9 25905.6
CAPITAL IlNTEREST                                               - 1430.3  2892.0 3823.?  4735.8  5261.9
NET PROFIT (LOSS)                                         -3570.2 -3562.0  2071.7 6641.4  8580.1 20643.7
COWRPRATE TAXES                                                 -       - 1243.0 3984.9 5148.1 12386.2
NET PROFIT(LOSS) AFTER TAX                                -3570.2 -352.0  828.7  2636.6 3432.1  8257.5
DIVIDEND                                                        -       -  414.3 1328.3 1716.0 4128.7
BALANCE CARRIED FORVARD TO RESERVES                       -3570.2 -3562.0  414.3 1328.3 1716.0 4128.7
NOTE: ALL FIGURES IN THOUSANDS OF CURENMT LSD UNTIL 1988/89
AND CONSTANT THEREAFTER



- 58 -
Annex 3.2c
SUDAN
SUGAR REA3UILITATIN PROJECT
SEMNAR
INCOME STATEMENT (PROFIT I LOSS ACCOUNT)
(LSD POOOs)
Year coumencing July  1                                    1994    I985    1996   1987      1989     19
INCOME
SALE OF SUGAR                                              32637.9 45658.1 64398.6 86047.2 104059.2 123023.8
LESS EXCISE DUTY                                          4895.7  6948.7  9659.8 12907.1  15608.9  18454.3
NET REVENUE                                                 27742.2 39809.4 54738.8 73140.1  U8450.3 104574.5
EXPENSES
OPERATING EXPENSES
AGRICULTURE                                                  7052.7  8690,7 10902.9 12657.6  14686.1  14686.1
FACTORY                                                    5348.0 6995.1  9307.5 11368.8  13427.5  13427.5
WORKSHOP                                                  3426.4  4233.7 5237.6 6195.3  7220.9  7220.9
TOTAL DIRECT COSTS                                           15B27.2 19919.4 25347.9 30221.7  35334.4  3S334.4
INDIRECT COSTS                                               7245.0  8476.6 9748.1 11210.4  12891.9  12991.9
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                                     23072.2 28396.0 35096.1 41432.1  4B226.3  48226.3
DEPRECIATION                                                  3551.8  6299.4  8866.9 11026.5  12864.8  13129.9
BANK INTEREST                                                 961.3  991.3  1138.9  1220.0  1267.0   1098.1
OPERATING INCOME (PROFIT)                                      157.0  3122.9  9636.9 19461.5  26092.2  42120.2
CAPITAL INTEREST                                                   -  2310.9  4475.7 5647.0  6319.1   7076.4
NET PROFIT (LOSS)                                              157.0  811.9 5161.2 13814.5  19773.1  35043.8
CORPDRATE TAXES                                                 94.2  487.1  3096.7 9298.7  11863.9 21026.3
NET PROFIT(LOSS) AFTER TAX                                      62.8  324.7  2064.5  5525.8  7YC9.3  14017.5
DIVIDEND                                                        31.4  162.4  1032.2  2762.9  3954.6  7006.8
BALANCE CARRIED FORUARD  TO RESERVES                            31.4  162.4  1032.2 2762.9  3954.6  7006.8
NOTE: ALL FIGURES IN THOtJSANDS OF CURRENT LSD UNTIL 1988/89
AND CONSTANT THEREAFTER



- 59 -
Annex 3.2d
SUItM RENAlILITTIONI PROJECT
ASSALAYA
INCOIC STATEIENT (PROFIT I LOSS ACCOUNlT
(LSD *OOOs)
Year commencing July  1                                1994   198s   1996   1t87   198        1Wm
INCOME
SALE OF SUGAR                                           36856.0 50974.0 66619.6 82461.9 99723.4 117902.6
LESS EXCISE DUTY                                       5528.4  7646.1 10022.9 12369.3 1493.5  17665.4
NET REVENUE                                              31327.6 43327.9 56796.7 70092.6 84764.9 100217.2
EXPENSES
OPERATING EXPENSES
AGRICULTURE                                               8414.6 10614.1 12697.2 14727.5 17078.5 17079.5
FACTORY                                                 6539,6 8663.9 10714.0 12663.4 14956.5 14956.5
WORKSNOP                                                1610.2 2005.8 2392.0 27M9.0 3250.7  3250.7
TOTAL DIRECT COSTS                                        16564.3 21283.8 25303.2 30179.9 35215.7 352S8.7
INDIRECT COSTS                                            5361.3 6272.7 7213.6  8295.7  540.0  9540.0
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                                  21925.6 27556.6 33016.9 33475.6 44825.8 449ZS.8
DEPRECIATION                                               4271.1 6759.7 9766.7 12370.7 15245.0  15603.0
DANM INTEREST                                              810.9  862.3  942.0  M.6  1071.5   392.3
OPERATING INCOME IPRoFIT)                                  4320.0 0149.3 13071.1 19253.8 23622.6 31596.1
CAPITAL INTEREST                                               - 1382.6 3333.6 4087.1 5441.3  5997.7
NET PROFIT (LOSS)                                         4320.0 6766.7 9737.5 14166.6 18181.3 32M99.4
CORPORATE TAXES                                            2592.0 4060.0 5942.5  8500.0 10906.8 19799.0
NET PROFIT(LOSS) AFTER TAX                                 1728.0 2706.7 3895.0 5666.7 7272.5 13199.3
DIVIDEND                                                   864.0 1353.3 1947.5  2W33.3 3636.3  6599.7
DALANCE CARRIED FORUARD TO RESERUES                        864.0 1353.3  1947.5 2833.3 3636.3  6599.7
NOTE: ALL FIGURES IN THNOUSAND OF C11RENT LSD UNTIL I1"83
MD COSANT TIEREAI



- 60 -
Notes on Annex   3.2 - Financial Analysis
Financial analysis was performed using the assumed exchange rate
and inflation rates given in Annex 3.1, all costs are inflated until
1988/89, and held constant thereafter. The following further assumptions
are employed:
o    Assets are divided into those having lives of 6 1/2, 17, and 40
years, and are depreciated on the basis of replacement value.
O    Bank interest (short-term debt service) is calculated assuming
that in any year each company must finance its cash requirements
for one quarter at an interest rate of 16%.
O    Long-term debt service charges are calculated assuming the mix of
equity and debt outlined in Annex 3.5, the specified on-lending
terms for IDA funds, and 8% interest for Arab and Saudi Fund
finance, over the same repayment period (12 years, 5 years
grace).
O    Excise Duty is assumed to remain at 15Z of value, and corporate
taxes at 60% of profits. It is further assumed that 50% of any
after-tax profit is transferred to Government as dividends.
O    In forecasting producer prices, the effect of the exchange rate
adjustment is assumed to be lagged by one year since imports of
inputs precede production by a year. Based on this assumption,
the following producer price series is forecast.
September 1        1984      1985    1986    1987      1988    1989    1990
Price (current
LSd/ton)      542       662     807     969    1,141   1,349   1,460



- 61 -                           Annex 3.3a
StDIIA
SUGAR RHILITATIN M JECT
GSKEID
CASH FLOUN
(LSD .000s)
Year commencing July  1                                  1984   185   1986   1987   1989   1989
SOURCE OF FUNDS
NET PROFIT(LOSS) AFTER TAX                               -8001.7 -9671.5 -8943.9 -4573.7 -1997.0 381.1
DEPRECIATION                                              2201.1 4652.0 6315.7 8119.3 10100.4 10264.
PROJECT FINANCING                                        30520.0 19610.0 13985.0 10420.0 3400.0      -
TOTAL SOURCES                                          24619.4 14590.4 11356.8 13965.6 11503.4 14079.0
USES OF FUNDS
PROJECT INVESTIENTS                                      30520.0 M9610.0 13985.0 10420.0 3400.0      -
OTHER NON-PROJECT INUESTHENTS                                  -       -       - 1770.0 405S00 4900.O
REPAYMENT OF LONG TERM LOANS                                   -       -      -       -       - 4272.l
TOTAL USES                                             30520.0 19610.0 13985.0 12190.0 7450.0 9172.1
NET CASH RWO                                             -5900.6 -5019.6 -2628.2  1775.6  4053.4 4906.9
NOTE: ALL FIGURES IN THUSANDS F CURRENT LSD UNTIL 198/89
AND CONSTANT THEREFER
__________________  _     --- - -



- 62 -                          Annex 3.3b
SUMN
SUGAR R    ITATION PREIECT
NIE HALFA
CASH FLOV
(LSD ,OOOs)
Year commencing July  1                               1984   1985   1986   18    1988   199
SOURCE OF FUDS
NET PROFITLOSS) AFTER TAX                              -3570.2 -3562.0  82B.7 2656.6 3432.1 925.5
DPRECIATION                                             1M.4 4571.3 6350.3 8086.1 9731.6 9835.8
PROJECT FINWACING                                       32180.0 20290.0 11000.0 8080.0 3030.0     -
TOTAL SOURCES                                        30602.3 21299.3 18178.9 1822.7 16193.7 180M3.3
USES OF FUNDS
POJECT INVESTNEM                                        32180.0 20290.0 11000.0 806O.0 3030.0     -
fER NON-PROJECT INUESTENTS                                   -      - 3590.0 5370.0 658D.0 7150.0
REPAYIET OF LN6 TER LOANS                                   -      -       -      -      - 3786.8
TOTAL USES                                           3218040 20290.0 14590.0 13450.0 9610.0 10936.8
NET CASH FLOW                                          -1577.7 1009.3 3589.9 5372.7 6583.7 7156.4
NOTE: ALL FIGURES IN THOUSANDS OF CURRENT LSD UNTIL 1988/89
AD CONSTANT THERE



- 63 -                         Annex 3.3c
SU6AR REHAIILITATION PROECT
SENNAR
CASM FLOL
(LSD jOOOs)
Year commencing July  1                              1984   1985   186   187   1988  m198
SOURCE OF FUNDS
NET PROFIT(LOSS) AFTER TAX                                 62.8  324.7 2064.5 5525.8 7909.3 14017.5
DEPRECIATION                                             3551.8 6299.4 8866.9 110264 12864.8 13129.9
PROJECT FINANCING                                       26390.0 25120.0 11350.0 4608.0 5310.0      -
TOTAL SOMRCES                                         30004.6 31744.1 22281.4 21160.3 26064.1 27147.4
USES OF FUNDS
PROJECT INUESTIENTS                                     263YD.0 25120.0 11350.0 4608.0 5310.0      -
OTHER NON-PRLOECT INUESTHENTS                                 - 3310.0 5740.0 8280.0 10390.0 11270.0
REPATIENT OF LONG TERM LOANS                                  -      -       -      -       - 4604.4
TOTAL USES                                            26390.0 28430.0 17090.0 12888.0 15700.0 15874.4
NET CASH FLOV                                            3614.6 3314.1 5191.4 8272.3 10384.1 11273.0
NOTE: ALL FIGURES IN THOUSANDS OF CURRENT LSD tNTIL 1988/99
AND CONSTAT THEREAFTER



_ 64 -                         Annex 3.3d
StON
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROET
ASSALATA
CASH FLUV
(LSD OOOs)
Year commencing  July  1                              1984   1985   1516   1987   1988   I"?
SOURCE OF FUNDS
NET PROFIT(LOSS) AFTER TAX                                 1728.0 2706.7 3895.0 5666.7 7272.5 13199.3
DEPRECIATION                                              4271.1  6759.7 9766.7 12370.7 15245.0 15603.0
PROJECT FINANCING                                         25310.0 3190.0 16920.0 11940.0 4950.0      -
TOTAL SOURCES                                          31309.1 41456.4 30581.7 29977.4 27367.5 29802.4
USES OF FUNDS
PROJECT INWESTENTS                                        25310.0 31990.0 16920.0 11940.0 4850.0     -
OHER NON-PROJECT INVESTMENTS                                   - 4730.0 6830.0 9020.0 11260.0 11280.0
REPAYMENT OF LONG TERN LOANS                                   -       -      -       -       - 6244.1
TOTAL USES                                             25310.0 36720.0 23750.0 20960.0 16110.0 17524.1
MET CASH FLOV                                              5999.1  4736.4 6831.7 9017.4 11257.5 11278.3
NOTE: ALL FIGURES IN THOUSANDS OF CURRENT LSD UNTIL 1988/89
AND CONSTANT THEREAFTER



- 65 -                        Annex 3.4a
SUDAN
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Balance Sheet
Guneid
(LSd Million)
1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90
Net Working Capital   -5.9      -10.9       -13.5      -11.8      -7.7       -2.8
Fixed Assets           50.3      78.5       104.2      128.4     149.1      149.1
Less Accumulated
Depreciation         (2.6)      (6.8)     (13.1)    (21.1)    (31.3)    (41.6)
Other Assets            4.2        7.1        9.7       11.6      13.5       13.5
Sub-Total              46.0      67.9        87.3      107.1     123.6      118.2
Less Long-Term
Liabilities          10.8      26.2        37.5       46.6      48.6       44.4
Shareholder's
Equity               35.2      41.7        49.8       60.5      75.0       73.8
Of Which
Capital Contri-
butions:             39.7      44.9        46.6       47.9      49.2       49.2
Profits and Reserves: -4.5       -3.2         3.2       12.6      25.8       24.6
Note:  All figures in current LSd until 1988/89, and constant thereafter.



- 66 -                       Annex 3.4b
SUDAN
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Balance Sheet
New Halfa
(LSd Million)
1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90
Net Working Capital   -1.6       -0.6        3.0         8.4      15.0       22.1
Fixed Assets           52.2      78.3       98.3       119.4     138.5      138.5
Less Accumulated
Depreciation         (2.0)      (6.6)    (12.9)      (21.0)    (30.7)    (40.6)
Other Assets            4.0        7.1       9.8        11.6      12.4       12.4
Sub-Total              52.6      78.2       98.2       118.4     135.2      132.4
Less Long-Term
Liabilities          13.3      26.7       34.2        42.2      45.2       41.4
Shareholder's
Equity               39.3      51.5       64.0        76.2      90.0       91.0
Of Which
Capital Contri-
butions:             38.9      45.8       49.3       49.3       49.3       49.3
Profits and Reserves:  0.4         5.7      14.7        26.9      40.7       41.7



- 67 -                        Annex 3.4c
SUDAN
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Balance Sheet
Sennar
(LSd Million)
1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90
Net Working Capital    3.7          6.9      12.1       20.4       30.8      42.0
Fixed Assets           70.1       103.9     127.4      149.4     175.2      175.2
Less Accumulated
Depreciation         (3.6)       (9.9)    (18.7)    (29.7)    (42.6)    (55.7)
Other Assets            4.3         7.5      11.0       12.7       14.6      14.6
Sub-Total              74.4       108.4     131.8      152.8      178.0     176.1
Less Long-Term
Liabilities          19.4        38.8      46.8       51.4      56.6       52.0
Shareholder 's
Equity               55.0        69.6      85.0      101.4     121.4      124.1
Of Which
Capital Contri-
butions:             46.9       52.5       55.5       55.5      55.5       55.5
Profits and Reserves:  8.1         17.1      29.5       45.9      65.9       68.6



- 68 -                       Annex 3.4d
SUDAN
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Balance Sheet
Assalaya
(LSd Million)
1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90
Net Working Capital    6.0         10.7       17.6       26.6       37.8      49.1
Fixed Assets           74.6       116.2      146.8      178.9     208.8      208.8
Less Accumulated
Depreciation         (4.3)      (11.0)    (20.8)    (33.2)    (48.4)    (64.0)
Other Assets            4.7         7.8       11.5       13.3       15.2      15.2
Sub-Total              81.0       123.7      155.1      185.6     213.4      209.1
Less Long-Term
Liabilities          17.3        41.7       51.1       63.0      67.8       61.6
Shareholder's
Equity               63.7        82.0      104.0      122.6     145.6      147.5
Of Which
Capital Contri-
butions:             52.9        60.4       67.9      67.9       67.9       67.9
Profits and Reserves: 10.8         21.6       36.1       54.7       77.7      79.6



- 69 -
Annex 3.5a
sUDnAN
SULBAR RFHARTI TATION PRUJECT
MIINFTrI
BJRRUINSR: I JFRT SFRUICE
M98l   1984   19RS    1964    1         9R7 199   9    19993    27    2001
(IN CURRENT LSDOOO l!P Tn 198M/89)
NFU FVQITY INJECTIONS
IDA i BM                                 - 7545.0 3948.0 78R4.0   79.0  132?R.0         -       -       -       -
KFI 2 60S                                - 121,8.0  474.0  314.0         -       -       -       -      -       _
UAIUE OF FEOTTY                    20000.0 39713.0 43M89.0 4AW.0 47MAR.O 4919&.0 49196.O 4919A.0 4919A.0 4919A.O
N-:: 1T.R
ARAft FIWNP 2  .S                        -  2097,0  245.0  ?A4.0  A?3,0   900.0          -      -       - 
SWADI FRIND A RS                         - 7W.40 I IR50,0 P.A13.  7220.0  141.0
IDA 1 6I                                 -  3000.0  364.0  24.0  1279.0   3R.-0
KFU I MS                                 -       _       _       _       _       _ 
TOTAI PkRT                               - 1077R.0 24212.0 37473.0 4A595.0 48644,0 447t1S.9 277.4    0.0      0.0
PERT iEFRUICE
INTEREST PAYMENTS RON PET Tn!
InA I El                                 -       -   190.0  F90,0  1X7.9  159.,  193.2  1226.6    0.0    0.0
KEN 1 609~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~.4.   SR.                             .?j?.
KF I 2 MS                                -       -       -       -       -       --             -       -       -
ARAR FRND 2 ESM                          -       -   167.4  1R7.0  20R.1  257.9   304.3  175.4    0.0    0.0
SAUDlI FUND 2 fiQS                       -       -  614.9  M5.-3  Y224.3  I9.9  2913.2  1621.4         0.0    0.0
CAPITAL WNTFRFRT                         -       -   97?.2  2612.2  3775.3 4A45.R  49q5.8  3023.4    0.0    0.0
PR1NITPI.E REPAYMENT TO:
IDA S BP                                 -       -       -       -       -       -   608.4 1220.1   -0.0   -0.0
KFN 2I IR                                _       _       _       _       _       _      _
ARAB FUND I GUS                          -       -       -       -       -       -   357.6  486.6    -0.0   -0.0
SAUDI FUNDI M IR                         -       -       -       -       -       -  306.0  4497.R   -0.0   -0.0
REPAYMENT EF 1N TERM MOANS              -       -       -       -       -       - 4272.1  604.4   -0.0   -0.0
TOTAI BERT SERUTF
DFBT SERVICE                             -       -  977.? 7412.7  3775.3  4645.8 9R7.8    7.-



- 70 -                                                 Annex 3.5b
Sm
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
NEJ RALFA
BORROVINGS I DflT SFRVICE
183    1984    19M     1       ¶9      1988    1989    1993    1997   2001
IIN CURRENT LS0.000 liP TO ¶988/89)
NEV EGIJTY INJECTIONS
_________ _____ ____
IDA I MS                                  - 3368.0  3527.0  3076.0        -       -       -       -       -       -
KFN I GM5                                 - 15540.0  .1319.0  489.0       -        -       -       -       -       -
VALUE OF EQUITY                     20000.0 38908.0 45754.0 49?69.0 49269.0 49269.0 49269.0 49269.0 49269.0 49269.0
WU KIUT
ARAB FUNDZt OS                           -  1484.0  1804.0  34.0   771.0   251.0         -                -       -
SAUI FUND I GMS                           -  8396.0 80.1.0  41J3.0  4859.0  167.0         -        -       -       -
IDA I 605                                 - 3348.0  3527.0 3024.0 2.429.0 2593.0          -        -       -       -
KRmlGGS                                   -       -       -       -       -       -       -                -       -
TOTAL DEBT                                - ¶3248.0 26670.0 34157.0 42216.0 45227.0 41440.2 21647.4      0.0     0.0
DEBT SERVICE
INTEREST PAYMENTS ON IfBT TO:
IDA I 605                                 -       -   639.9  1310.0  1885.0 fl46.5  2839.2  1894.5   -0.0   -0.0
KF I OS                                   -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -
ARAB FUND 1 6085                          -       -   J18.7   263.0   290.9  352.6   372.6  214.8        0.0    0.0
SAtUI FUND t rElS                         -       -   671.7  1319.0  1648.0 2036.7 205O.t  tl81.6        0.0    0.0
CAPITAL INTEREST                          -       -  1430.3  2892.0  3823.9  4735.8  5261.9 P90.8        0.0     0.0
PRINCIPLE REPAYMENT TO:
IDA I 60s                                 -       -       -       -       -       -   939.7  1884.4    0.0      0.0
KFV I riS                                 -       -       -       -       -        -       -       -       -       -
ARAB FUND 1 60S                           -       -       -       -       -       -   437.9  59.8   -0.0   -0.0
SAUDI FUND I 6                            -       -       -       -       -       - 2409.2  3277.7   -0.0   -0.0
REPAYMENT OF LONG TFRI URANS              -       -       -       -       -       -  71146.8  5757.9   -0.0    -0.0
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE
DPET SERVICE                              -       -  1430.3 2892.0  3R23.9  4735.8  9048.7  9048.7        -        -



- 71 -                                                Annex 3.5c
SUDAN
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
SENNAR,
BORROUINPS I DFr SERVICE
19M3    9U4   19M5    ¶6    197    19R8   I9"?   t9I    t97    2001
(IN UIRRENT 1.D4000 iP TO 1999/89)
-- -- - -- -- - -- - -- -- - -- -
ENW FOITTY TN.IECTIONS
IA I GOS                                 - 6902.0  503.0  3000.o
KFI I WSO                                            -      -           -       -       -       -       -       -
VALUE OF FUITY                     40000.0 46907.0 52505.0 50.'^O .0 55505.0 55505.0.0 55585.0  55505.0 55"50.0 55505.0
NEU DEBT
ARAB FUND I GOS                          - 12494.0 13753.0  3191.0  1815.0 2244.0       -       -       -      -
SAUDI FUND 1605                          -      -       -       -       -       --
TPA I r5S                                - 6902.0 5603.0  482t.0  2773.0  3041.0        -       -       -      -
(Fi I 60S                                -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -      -
TOTAL DEBT                               - 193W6.0 3R172..0 46764.0 5t157.0 56637.0 5203.6 27544.1    0.0    0.0
lflT SERVICE
INTEREST PAYMENTS ON DEBT TO:
IDA S6WS                                 -      -  1311.4  2379.9  3291.9  3R18.8 4396.6  2931.7    0.0    0.0
KFUI 2rWS                                -       -      -       -0
ARAB FU N  2 605                         -       -  99.5  20.8 7355.0 2500.2  7679.8  1544.5    0.0    0.0
SAUDI FUND 2 r05                         -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
CAPITAL INTEREST                         -       -  2310.9  4475.7 5647.0 6319.1  7076.4  4479.2    0.0    0.0
PRINCIPLE REPAYMENT TO:
IDA IS W                                 -              -       -               -  1455.2  2911.1   -0.0   -0.0
KFUS -Ns
ARAB FUND I 0S                           -       -      -       -       -       - 3149,, 4?84.5   -0.0   -0.0
SAtDI FUND I GS                          -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
REPAYMENT OF IONr TFER  l.fAWS                                                     4604.4 7202.6   -0.0   -0.0
TOTAL DEBT SERYJE
DERT SEPRVICE                                    -  210.9  4475.7  5647.0  6319.1 11690.7 116R0.7       -       -



-  72 -                                                      Annex 3.5d
SUDNN
SUGAR REHBILITATION PROJECT
ASSALATA
BORRUIINGS I DFRT SERVICF
19&3    1984    1985    1986    197    19        19       1993    t997    2001
(IN CURRENT LSD.000 UP TO 1988/89)
NEU EQUITY INJECTIONS
IDA t GUS                                     7930.0  7493.0  7475.0        -       -        -       -       -       -
KFG t S                                    -        -       -       -       -                -       -       -        -
VALIE F EQUITY                       4500.0 52930.0 60423.0 678.0 67998.0 678.0 67898.0 67898.0 67898.0 67898.0
NEW DEBT
ARAB FUND 2 GUS                            - 17282.0 24388.0  9419.0  8275.0  4188.0         -       -       -        -
SAtUI FUND I 6                             -       -        -       -       -       -        -O
IDA I GO                                   -       -       -        -  3643.0   639.0        -       -       -       -
KF  t SGOS                                 -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -        -
TOTAI. DEBT                                - 17282.0 41670.0 51089.0 6U007.0 47834.0 61599.9 30817.3       0.0      0.0
DEBT SERVICE
INTEREST PAYNENTS ON DEBT To:
IDA s GUS                                  -       -       -        -       -   692.2   813.6   542.9    -0.0    -0.0
KFUZOOS                                    -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -
ARAB FUND I BOB                            -       -  1382.6  3T33.6  4087.3  474H.1  5094.2  2930.3       0.0     0.0
SAUDI FIMN  t 'so                          -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -       -        -
CAPITAL INTEREST                           -       -  1382.6  1.3;3.6  4087.1  5441.3  5897.7  3473.2      0.0      0.0
PRINCIPLE REPAYMFNT TO:
IDA   GO S                                                 -        -       -       -   269.3   540.0      0.0    .O0
KFU                                        -       -        -       -       -                -       -       -        -
ARAB FUND I GQ5                            -       -        -       -       -        - 5974.9  81?8.7    -0.0    -0.0
SAUDI FUND ISOB                                                                              -       -       -        -
REPAYMENT OF LONG TERN LOANS               -       -        -       -       -        -  624.1  8668.7    -0.0    -0.0
TOTA. DEBT SERVICE
DEBT SERVICE                               -       -  32.6  333.6  4087.1  5441.3 12141.8 12141.8            -        -



SUMN
Sugar Rehabilitation Project
CGoemnent of Sudan
Projected Cashflow Utder the Project
(LSd milllor.)
1            2            3            4            5            6            7            8            9            10
1984/95      1985/86      1986/87      1987/88      1988/89      1989/90      1990/91      1991/92      1992/93      1993/94
Exdse Duty                     17.4         24.3         34.2         34.2         44.8         54.2         64.1         69.3         69.3         69.3
PepayrIent cf Loan
by Cowpnies                   -            6.1         13.0          17.3         21.0        42.0          42.0         42.0         42.0         42.0
MIk aRedit and Other
Cofinanciem Loam           104.0         62.2         42.3          45.5         17.4          -            -            -            -            _
Corporate Taxes                 2,7          4.6         10.1         20.8         27.8         56.5         75.3         77.0         78.4         80.0
Dividends                       1.6          2.8          6.9         15.7         21.5         18.8         25.1         25.6         26.0         26.5
TotAL DBFLOM                  124.2        119.5        112.0        117.4        131.2        171.5        2D6.5        213.9        215.7        217.8
Project Experditures
(Investrents in Prqject
Entities & Transfers
bY COS                     121.0         103.6         58.2         37.6         18.4          -            -            -
Increauntal Operatirg
Costs for Goverent
ARencies (est.)              4.0          4.8           5.6          6.5          7.4          8.5          8.5          8.5          8.5          8.5
Pepayrent of IOA Credit 
& cther Cofinanciers
LoaI  a/                     2.5           2.9          3.2          3.5          3.9         10.3         10.3         10.3         10.3         10.3                   w
ANNAJL I1W       M rA
(DEICIT) SLRFLLS              (3.3)          8.2        45.0          70.1        101.5        152.7        187.7        195.1        196.9        199.0
CMUL UN3UM
SURPtLS (DEFICrr)              (3.3)         4.9         49.9        120.0        221.5        374.2        561.9        757.0        953.9      1,152.9
NDte:  All figures in current LSd until 1988/89, and constant thereafter.
a/ Assumes KfW finance as grant, Arab Fund and Saudi Fund finance to be repaid over 20 years with a
5 year grace period and 4% interest.



SUDAN
Sugar Rehabilitation ProJect
Governmnt of Sudan
Estimated Government Cashflow% Without Project
(TSd rdll..tQ)
1           2           3           4            5           6           7           8           9            10
1984/95     1985/86     1986/87     1987/88      1988/89     1989/90     1990/91     1991/92      1992/93     1993/94
PCST profits                22.1         26.5        30.0        33.8         38.8        44.5        44.5        44.5         44.5        44.5
ExcAse Duty                  10.8        13.2        15.9         18.1        20,1        23.2        26.7        26.7         26.7        26.7
Total                        32.9        39.7        45.9        51.9         58.9        67.7        71.2         71.2        71.2        71.2
OLTVLmWS                                                                                                                                                 I
Cperating Subsidy to                                                                                                                                    'J
Conpanies                    6.0          7.4         9.0         10.1        11.3        13.0        14.9         14.9        14.9        14,9
NET CASHFIL                  26.9        32.3        36.9        41.8         47.6        54.7        56.3         56.3        56.3        56.3
(less overdraft with
Bun  of Sudan)             (6.0)        (7.3)       (9.0)      (10.1)       (11.3)      (13.0)      (14.9)      (14.9)       (14.9)      (14.9)
Notes: Excise Duty and FT profits are estimted on the basis of rates prevailing in 1983/84, assumLing inflation of both costs and proa&cer
prices in accordance with inflation rates given in Anx 3.1, ard assidng levels of pro&iction projected In 'witkut project" case (Anex 5.2)
losses by cowpanies are calaLlated on the basis of the difference betwen net producer prices and estimated costs of production prjected on the
same basis. It is further assumed that 50% of these losses are covered by budgettary transfers from Goverrnnut, ad 50% by acouilatirg further
overdrafts at the Bank of Sudan. The overdrafts are shom  as supplenentary to the Net Cashflow since they do not in fact result in cash
payvents by the Goverient.
All figures in current LSd millions until 1988/89, and constant thereafter.
mr



SLIw
Supr Rehabilitation Project
GoCnamt of Sudan
Estimated Irirenantal Gweiinent Cashflaw
(LSd dllions)
1          2           3           4           5           6          7           8           9           10
1984/95    1985/86     1986/87     1987/88     1988/89     1989/90     1990/91    1991/92    1992/93      1993/94
(a) Cuhfl1w under
Project                (3.3)        8.2        45.0        70.1       101.5       152.7      187.7       195.1       196.9       199.0
(b) less Projected Cashf1ci
Without Project        (26.9)     (32.3)      (36.9)      (41.8)      (47.6)      (54.7)      (56.3)     (56.3)      (56.3)      (56.3)
(c) Estinuted Incretntal
Cashflcw              (30.2)      (24.1)        8.1        28.3        53.9        98.0       131.4      138.8       140.6       142.7
(d) Oumllative Increnental
Surplus (Deficit)     (30.2)      (54.3)      (46.2)      (17.9)       36.0       134.0      265.4       404.2       544.8       687.5
Notes: Govensitu  cahflCr uder the project (a) is taken directly fran Table 3.5a, fron this is deducted the estirrated cinhflow without the
Project (b) taken fram Table 3.5h - in order to reflect the rnveme forgone by COS in abardonirg the practice of taKirg the sector tfraig PCST
profits, ard in order to reflect the cczts avoided by ID lorqWr havirg to directly sulsidize the foLr sugar estates.
As noted in Table 3.5b, the Governaet also avoids the acomulation of further overdrafts with the Bark of Sudan (asstmel to equal lSd 116.3
ntllion over the 10 year period) ati this saut is an aditional savirgs to the Governs,nt, althDugh it is not strictly an eleum,t of the
cashf low.
AU figures in current LSd mdllior until 1988/89, and constant thereafter.
wA



SUDAN
Sup.rRehabilitation Project
Government of Sudan
Incremental Foreign Exchange Earnings Under the Project
Project Year
1        I         3         4        5         6         7        8         9        10
Inflows               1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93  1993/94
Loans and Grants
from Project
Financiers                  52.8     45.2      25.5      16.4       8.1      0         0         0        0         0
Savings on Reduced
Sugar Imports               14.7     27.4      49.0      63.4      71.3     71.3      71.3      71.3     71.3      71.3
TOTAL INFLOWS               67.5      72.6     74.5      79.8      79.4     71.3      71.3      71.3      71.3     71.3
Outflows
Repayment of
Project Loans                1.5       1.5       1.6      1.6       1.6      4.4       4.4       4.4       4.8      4.8
Incremental Foreign
Exchange Earnings           66.0      71.1     72.9      78.2      77.8     66.9      66.9      66.9      66.9     66.9
Note:  All values in current US$ millions until 1988/89, and constant thereafter.



- 77                   Annex 4
SUDAN
Sugar Rehabilitation Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Disbursement 1/
~~-US$'000- 
IDA              Quarter                By End of
Fiscal Year            Ended                 Quarter           Cumulative
1985              December 1984             2.0                 2.0
March 1985               4.2                 6.2
June 1985                5.3                11.5
1986              September 1985            7.2                18.7
December 1985            5.6                24.3
Harch 1987               4.3                28.6
June 1986                4.1                32.7
1987              September 1986            3.1                35.8
December 1986            4.0                39.8
March 1987               3.6                43.3
June 1987                3.4                46.8
1988              September 1987            2.5                49.3
December 1987            2.0                51.3
March 1988               1.8                53.1
June 1988                1.4                54.5
1989               September 1988           0.8                55.3
December 1988            1.4                56.7
March 1989               1.6                58.3
June 1989                0.9                59.2
1990               September 1989           0.4                59.6
December 1989            0.4                60.0
1/ Expected date of signing: June 30, 1984.
Expected date of effeci.iveness: September 30, 1984
Expected completion date: June 30, 1989.
Expected closing date: June 30, 1990.



SUDAN
Sugar Rehabilitation Project
Historical Areas, Yields and Production
Guneid
Net Hill      Average       Total Sugarcane       Average Recovery      Total Sugar
Year       Cane Area        Yield           Production              Factor             Output
(fd)       (tons/fd)           (tons)                  M                  (tons)
1962/63        8,774          16.67            146,252                 9.07               12,260
1963/64       16,643          14.0Q            233,000                 8.38                19,520
1964/65       15,082          12.9011          194,561                 8.53               16,591
1965/66       16,691          10.17            169,755                 9.44               16,028               1
1966/67       15,960          14.57            232,560                 9.83               22,856              X
1967/68       19,260          18.28            352,075                 9.43               33,183
1968/69       16,395          14.49            237,559                 8.64               29,149
1969/70       10,068          20.20            203,375                 9.08                18,460
1970/71       13,005          25.95            337,512                10.99               37,080
1971/72       12,953          17.81            236,739                12,28               28,345
1972/73       17,770          22.50            399,919                10.54               42,133
1973/74       16,631          24.64            409,842                11,04               45,268
1974/75       19,328          26.59            513,923                10.26               52,727
1975/76       19,313          27.19            525,030                10.31               54,155
1976/77       20,504          25.83            529,580                10.40               55,070
1977/78       18,915          26.50            501,271                 9.68               48,500
1978/79       18,963          21.94            415,974                 8.78               36,539
1979/80       15,698          20.30            ;18,618                 9.52               29,685
1980/81       18,761          18.46            346,240                 8.55               29,601
1981/82        n/a             n/a             185,786                 8.50                15,744
1982/83       12,630          17.55            221,656                 9.16               20,310



SUDAN
Sugar Rehabilitation Prolect
Historical Areas, Yields and Production
New Halfa
Net Mill        Average        Total Sugarcane         Average Recovery        Total Sugar
Year        Cane Area          Yield            Production                Factor               Output
(fd)        (tons/fd)             (tons)                                        (tons)
1965/66          3,346           31.64             105,883                    8.03                  8,499
1966/67         12,455           37.11             462,200                   10.39                48,022
1967/6F         15,075           41.04             618,603                    9.72                60,101
1968/69         15,152           39.68             601,166                    8.81                52,944
1969/70         17,210           36.22             623,353                    9.12                56,857
1970/71         16,067           23.21             372,921                    9.52                 35,503
1971/72         17,169           37.64             645,269                    9.73                  62,874
1972/73         17,052           40.90             697,357                   10.11                70,508
1973/74         17,910           41.19             737,627                   10.26                 75,705
1974/75         20,336           38.12             775,306                    9.79                 75,924
1975/76         21,164           30.82             652,368                    9.17                 59,794
1976/77         18,668           34.17             637,972                    8,96                 57,168
1977/78         16,897           38.07             643,316                    9.05                 58,214
1978/79         20,067           34.45.            691,294                    9.38                 64,850
1979/80         15,673           30.83             483,131                    8.91                43,053
1980/81         15,362           28.60             439,393                    8.20                 36,043
1981/82          n/a              n/a              432,817                    8.25                35,863
1982/83         19,649           27.0              476,538                    8.0                  38,080
-    .                                                         1t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



SUDAN
Sugar Rehabilitation Prolect
Historical Areas, Yields and Production
Sennar
Net Kill      Average       Total Sugarcane        Average Recovery      Total Sugar
Year       Cane Area        Yield           Production               Factor             Output
(fd)       (tons/fd)            (tons)                 (2)                (tons)
1976/77       17,047          22.11            376,958                  7.02               26,465
1977/78       17,945          22.74            408,236                  7.75               31,675
1978/79       10,485          22.21            232,879                  7.80               18,135
1979/80       17,101          22.57            386,175                  7.77               39,001
1980/81       14,824          22.84            338,516                  7.71               26,115                 o
1981/82       15,806          20.10            313,727                  7.11               22,326
1982/u3       18,065          25.60            463,763                  8.75               40,600
Assalaya
1979/80         3.400         27.90              94,881                 8.00                7,560
1980/81        3,487          26.70              9g,003                 9.20                8,568
1981/82        5,806          16.60             96,634                   (milled at Kenana)
1982/83        9,300          32.00            297,719                 10,60               31,625



- 81 -
Annex 5.2a
WA RAILITATION POJECT
GUNEID
PROJECTED PMROUCTION VITH AND INOUT ROJECT
Year commencing July 1               1983    1984    1985    1986    1987 1988-2001
NET KILL CE NET KILL CANE AREA (Fd,)
NITHOUT PROJECT                   15000.0 16000.0 17000.0 17000.0 17000.0  17000.0
IIITH PROJECT                     15000.0 16000.0 18000.0 20000.0 22000.0  22000.0
A GER  YIELD (Tans/Fd.)
WITHOUT PROJECT                     20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0
VITH PROJECT                        20.0   24.0   26.0    28.0   30.0    32.0
SUGARCANE PRODUCTION (Ton5)
VITHOUT PROJECT                  3O0000.0 320000.0 340000.0 340000.0 3400.0 340.0
V1ITH PROJECT                    300000.0 384000.0 468000.0 560000.0 660000.0 704000.0
RECOVERY RATE (Z)
WITHOUT PROJET                       9.2     8.8     8.5  B.5        8.5      8.5
WITH PROJECT                         9.2     9.3     9.3     9.3    9.5       9.5
TOTAL SUMAR OUMPT (Tons)
WITHOUT PRJET                     27600.0 280.0 28900.0 28900.0 28900.0  28900.0
VITH PROJECT                      27600.0 35520.0 43290.0 51800.0 62700.0  66890.0
INCREENTAL OUTPUT                         -  7520.0 14390.0 2200.0 33800.0  3mo.0



- 82 -
Annex 5.2b
SDA
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROIECT
NEW HALFA
PROJECTED MDUCTION VITH AN VITHOUT MJECT
Year commencing July  1               1983    1984   165          198197-2001
NET NILL CA NET NILL CAE AREA (Fd.)
VITHOUT PROJECT                    19000.0 190.0 19000.0 19000.0  1000.0
VITH PROJE                         19000.0 19000.0 19000.0 19000.0  19000,0
AVUAE YIELD (Tons/Fd.)
WITHOUT PROJECT                       29.0    30.0    31.0    31.0      31.0
3ITH PROJET                           29.0    30    33.0    35.0        37.5
SWARCNE PRODUCTION (Tons)
VITNOUT PROJECT                   551000.0 570000.0 589000.0 59000.0 589000.0
WITH PROJECT                      551000.0 580.0 627000.0 6650000 712500.0
RECONERT RATE (Z)
WITHOUT PROJECT                        8.5     8.3     B.3      8.0      6.O
IN PROJECT                             8.5     8.5     9.0    10.0      10.0
TOTAL SUMA OUTPUT (Tans)
VITNOUT PROJECT                    46835.0 47025.0 48592.5 47120.0  47120.0
IT  PROJECT                        46835.0 50065.0 56430.0 66500.0  71250.0
INREITAL OUTP                              -  3040.0  7837.5 19380.0  24130.0



- 83 -
Annex 5.2c
SUDAN
SUGAR REHAILITATION PROJECT
SENNAR
MJECTED tRODUCTION  ITH MAD WITHOUT ROJCT
1983    1       1985IM   198     1?7 198-2001
NET HILL CANE NET HILL CAE AREA (Fd.)
VITHOUT PROJECT                    20328.0 20600.0 20600.0 20600.0 2000.0  20600.0
11ITh PROJECT                      20328.0 21000.0  000.0 24000.0 24000.0  24000.0
AVERAGE YIELD (Tans/Fd.)
VITIOUT PROJECT                       29,0    30.0    31.0    32.0    32.0       32.0
WITH PROJECT                          29.0    31.0    33.0    35.0    37.0       38.0
SUGARCANEPRODUCTION (Tons)
VITHOUT PROJECT                   59512.0 618000.0 638600.0 659200.0 6520.  6590
1ITh PROECT                       599512.0 651000.0 726000.0 840000.0 8880.0  912000.0
RECOE  MTE (Z)
ITHOUT PROECT                          9.0     8.5     8.3      8.3     8.0      8.0
VITH PROJECT                           9.0     9.3     9.5    9.5    10.0        10.0
TOAL SUGAR OUTPUT (Tons)
ITIT PROJECT                      53056.1 52530.0 52684.5 54384.0 527.0  5 .0
WITH PROJECT                       53056.1 60217.5 68970.0 79800.0 89800.0  91200.0
INCEMNAL                                   -  7687.5 1625.5 25416.0 36064.0  38464.0



- 84 -
Annex 5.2d
sum
SUGAR RENAILITATION PROJECT
ASSALAYA
PROJECTED PROUCTION  ITH AD ITHOT PROJEC
Year commencing July  1                 1983    19B4    1965    196    1M  198s-2001
NET HILL CANE NET HILL CANE RtEA FdJ)
VITHOUT PROJECT                     16000.0 18000.0  20000.0  20000,0  2000.0  200.0
VITH PROJECT                        16000.0 200.0   22000.0  23000.0   23000,0  23000.0
MAERAGE YIELD (Tons/Fd.)
VITHOMIT PROJECT                       3M.0    33.0    33.0    33.0    33.0        33.0
V11TH PROJECT                          33.0    34.0    35.0    36.0    37.0        38.0
SUGARCANE PROCION (Tons)
VITHOUT PROJECT                    528000.0 594000.0 6600o0.o  660000.0 660000.0 660000.
V1IH PROJECT                       528000.0 600.0 770000.0 828000.0 851000.0 974000.0
RECOUEY RATE (Zl
VITHOUT PROJECT                        10.0     9.5      9.0     8.5      8.0      8.0
V1TH PROJECT                           10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0        10.0
TOTAL SUGAR OUTPUT (Tans)
lTHOUT PROJECT                      5280.0 56430.0  59400.0 56265.0 52B0.0  52800.0
V17H PREOJECT                       5900.0 60oo.o  77000.0 82800.0 85100.0  874000o
INCREENTAL OTPMT                            - 11570.0  17600.0 26535.0 32300.0  3460.0



- 85 -
Annex 5.3
SUDAN
Sugar Rehabilitation Project
Sugar Balance - 1976/77-1988/89
('000 of metric tons)
Domestic Production
Project                                                       a/
Companies      Kenana         Total        Consumption  Balance
1976/77           139            -            139             449        -310
1979/80           III            20           131             425        -294
1980/81           100           150           250             438        -188
1981/82            74           175           249             450        -201
1982/83           130           230           360             460        -100
1983/84           180           260           440             478         -38
1984/85           214           300           514             498          16
1985/86           246           320           566             517          49
1986/87           281           320           601             538          63
1987/88           303           320           623             560          63
1988/89           317           320           637             582          55
Note:  Estimated production with project, 1983/84-1988/89.
a/ Actual requirements exceed apparent balance by 150,000 tons p.a., since
Kenana is obliged to export this quantity each year.



- 86 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 4
SUDAN
Sugar Rehabilitation Project
Sugar Cane Research Program
1.        The research program nust follow two directions simultaneously:
- In the existing circumstances the primary objective must be to
ensure that the industry benefits, in the shortest possible
time, by applying the results of accumulated knowledge of cane
production, both from work done in the Sudan and elsewhere;
- In the longer term, work must be initiated to deal with the
specific requirements of cane production in the Sudan, related
primarily to the provision of varieties well suited to the
climatic enviornment and possessing adequate resistance to
smut. Techniques must also be developed to utilize fully the
productive potential of the soils in the particular climatic
conditions.
lt must also be recognized that research, per se, can do little to improve
cane and sugar yields, in conditions where cane production and its
processing into sugar are subject to major constraints such as a chronic
shortage of irrigation water, and a general lack of finance for proper
maintenance and replacement of equipment. Even in existing circumstances,
however, some assistance can be provided, for instance, in ensuring that
the level of fertilizer applied in the most efficient manner and at the
correct time. The introduction and rapid build-up of high yielding
varieties, resistant to smut, is another aspect where sugar output can be
enhanced without major additional expenditure, beyond that involved in
varLety introduction and selection. It is also a well established fact
that having varieties available which are well suited to conditions is the
most cost effective way of maintaining cane yields.
2.        With major changes now taking place in the industry, there will
have to be a careful assessment of the work program of the Sugarcane
Research Station, and maximum benefit will only be achieved by the closest
possible association between the staff of the Research Station and in
making full use of the specialist services available. It is important that
central research should not operate in isolation from the rest of the
industry and, in spite of the travel distances involved, much ef the
research effort should be of a cooperative nature. This is of particular
importance in relation to work involving variety selection and smut
incidence, testing of herbicides, borer investigations and specialist
investigations into irrigation water usage. The proposed research program
would involve the central research station at Guneid working in concert
with the agricultural departments at each of the estates. Most of the
essential applied research would be carried out at the estate level, while
the Guneid research station would undertake longer term investigations,
specialized testing and analysis, and intensive small-scale trials.



- 87 -                     Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
The Guneid Research Station
3.        It is proposed that the Guneid research station would enter into
a reciprocal arrangement with an overseas sugar research unit, which could
provide access to specialized staff, technical information, and resources.
Details of the program would be drawn up by research station personnel in
consultation with the sugar companies, SPIC, and researchers from the
selected international research institute. In general, the Guneid station
would concentrate on the following:
(i) A concentrated program of importation of selected varieties of
known resistance to smut, and the rapid multiplication of
selected varieties are essential to ensure that varieties
suited to climatic and soil environment will continue to be on
hand, should any of those now selected for expansion have to
be replaced at short notice.
(ii) Continued tests on the response to strictly controlled
irrigation patterns, and to the application of nitrogen and
phosphorus.
(iii) Controlled trials using different soil preparation techniques
and different times of planting.
4.        The work program of the station should be reviewed and revised by
the governing body and sugar companies at regular intervals, to ensure that
the most urgent and cost effective activities rate for top priority, whilst
maintaining the continuity of all the main lines of research at both the
Research Station and on the estates. The station should not aim, at this
stage, at producing prestigious publications; the prime objective should be
to evaluate and pass on experimental data as they emerge.
Estate Level Research
5.        It is proposed that the majority of research work be carried out
at the estate level. Although the actual program at each estate would have
to be drawn up in detail after a careful assessment of priorities and staff
availability, the following general program wotuld be followed:
(i) Propogation of selected introduced varieties:
- Testing for smut resistance.
- Recording growth performance, vegetative characteristics
and suitability for mechanical harvesting.
- Record of flowering.
- Variety sampling for juice analysis, cane quality and fiber
determination.
(ii) Smut control in commercial seed nurseries.
(iii) Replicated trials with varieties selected for possible
commercial expansion.
(iv) Herbicide trials with new materials.



-88 -                      Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
(v) Supervision of herbicide use, control of materials and methods
employed and the timing of application.
(vi) Formal fertilizer trials in plant and ratoon cane.
(vii) Specification of fertilizer treatments to be used in
commercial production, leaf sampling for analysis and
correlation with cane yield performance.
(viii) Collection and recording of climatic and evaporation data and
their use in relation to irrigation scheduling and control.
(ix) Operation and monitoring of the three long-furrow irrigation
pilot plots at New Halfa, Sennar and Assalaya.
(x) Cultivation and irrigation trials investigating factors such
as:
- The influence of cane row lengths and grades versus
irrigation lead streams used and methods of water control.
- Measurements of water use versus irrigation intervals, cane
growth and pan evaporation.
- Comparison of methods of cane establishment related to
irrigation techniques and cane bank formation.
- The study and recording of cane root development and
distribution under the various treatments employed.
(xi) The maintenance of growth measuring-stations throughout the
cane area; these will allow productivity comparisons to be
made between years, and an estimate to be made of overall cane
yields.
(xii) Preparation of schedules for cane -dry-off", monitoring the
development of cane juice quality, and making comparisons
between differing "dry-off" treatments.
(xiii) Cane sampling for maturity tecting for the control of
harvesting sequence.
(xiv) Sampling of mechanically harvested cane for trash and
extraneous matter content.
(xv) Trials with the cultivation of ratoon cane; to reform cane
banks damaged during harvesting and to determine whether
additional cultivation treatments would influence ratoon cane
yield and test methods of cultivation.
(xvi) Develop a program of 'Crop-Logging suited to the local
circumstances and the requirements for "Crop Control- to
assist planning decisions made by the Agricultural Management.



- 89 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
(xvii) Maintain detailed records of the treatments applied to
individual fields, relating to factors such as varieties,
cultivation and fertilizer treatments, used nutrient status,
and the cane and sugar yields obtained.
(xviii) Assist in carrying out cooperative trials initiated by the
Central Research Station.
6.        In this program there is a significant work content of a routine
and repetitive nature, i.e. growth measurements, ssut assessments, cane and
leaf sampling, which can be carried out by relatively unqualified
personnel, provided they are well trained and reliable.



- 9o -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 3
SUDAN
Sugar Rehabilitation Project
ANNUAL WORK PROGRAM
1.        Annual Work Programs (AWPs) would be submitted by the sugar
companies, MOAI(I), MOI and ARC, and would cover all Project components.
Each AWP shall provide documentation, satisfactory to the Association, with
respect to the following:
(i) a detailed description of the work to be performed, including
the objectives of the work plan for the ensuing fiscal year
commencing each July 1, the schedules of activities, equipment
requirements, staffing arrangements and training plans, and
the distribution of responsibilities for each item included in
the AWP;
(ii) a budget for the period covered setting forth:
(a) the proposed capital expenditures;
(b) all proposed recurrent expenditures such as salaries,
materials, fuel, repairs and maintenance directly
attributed to activities under the Project, together with
a breakdown of predevelopment and incremental
expenditures;
(c) a comparison of the proposed investment and recurrent
budgets with the proposed budget and actual expenditures
for the previous year;
(d) the number of persons to be employed by position and skill
level;
(e) a list of proposed expenditures for technical services,
studies and training; and,
(f) projected cashflow and income statements for the sugar
companies.
(iii) a financing plan, and detailed quarterly cashflow projections
including the GOS contributions to the Project account and the
taxes, excise duty and dividend payable to GOS on its capital
in the companies, as well as the distribution of local
currency project financing between the sugar companies and
GOS, and the possibility of accelerated debt repayment by the
conpanies.



- 91 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
(iv)  details of proposed producer and consumer prices for sugar for
the coming year.
(v)  targets for sugar cane areas, yields, and production,
extraction rates and sugar production for each company,
including a detailed production plan for the cultivation,
harvesting and crushing period.
(vi)  planned levels of domestic sugar production, imports, and
exports, and a marketing plan for the coming year.
(vii)  proposed water charges to be levied by MOAI(I) in the coming
year.
2.        Each AWP will be supported by the following information, as may
be relevant:
Ci)  a detailed staffing analysis, including a report on previous
staffing and proposed increments or reductions; and plans for
labor mobilization for harvesting;
(ii)  the proposed training program;
(iii) GOS budgetary provision for recurrent inputs to MOI and
MOAI(I), and ARC; and
(iv)  assessment of the previous years' performance, as described
below.
3.        A detailed review of the following items:
(a) Performance in the areas of pricing, the introduction of the
individual account system for tenants at Guneid, the
introduction of cost and maragement-accounting systems; and a
detailed assessment of the financial performance of each of
the companies in the previous year.
(b) Performance of the companies in achieving production targets
and technical parameters set out under the project, and in the
previous years' AWP.
(c)  Manpower and staffing arrangements at each of the companies;
including:
Ci) progress in reducing levels of unskilled labor in those
area which are over-staffed.
(ii) progress in mobilizing cane-cutting labor.
(iii) progress in attracting and retaining senior level
staff.



- 92 -                    Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
(iv) quantitative measures of progress under the training
component of the project, including numbers and skilled levels
of trainees whose skill have been upgraded.
(v) a statement of the number and levels of positions
localized under the Management Assistance and Training
component.
(d) Performance of the management of each of the companies, as
reviewed by an independent management firm acceptable to IDA
and follow-up measures taken.
(e) Factory performance -- including down-time analysis,
performance against extraction targets set for the project,
and progress in the completion of rehabilitation works.
(f) Results of trials undertaken under the research component,
progress in the introduction of new varieties, and a review of
the results of the long-furrow irrigation pilot schemes.
(g) Performance in the areas of workshop and equipment maintenance
operations, including an analysis of down-times, average
equipment availability, and an assessment of the
success of preventive maintenance programs.
(h)  The performance of pumping facilities for irrigation, with
particular reference to the adequacy of power supplies and the
consumption of energy.
(i) The status of ground-heave rectification works at Sennar and
Assalaya.
(j) The Sugar Companies' capacity to absorb MOAI(I)'s
responsibilities for irrigation operations.
4.        The criteria upon which the Association's approval of a proposed
AWP would be based on:
(i) the adequacy of such programs for implementing basic Project
objectives consistent with requirements of the Development
Credit Agreement; the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and
(ii)  the adequacy of such programs in providing physical, financial
and manpower resources tc implement and sustain the physical
targets set for the ensuing Project year.



- 93 -                     Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
SUDAN
Sugar Rehabilitation Project
Water Demand and Availability
Water Requirements
1.        The rehabilitation program assumes that no expansion of areas
would take place and that the project design requirement would be met from
the areas already developed within the estates. The crop-water
requirements have been worked out on the basis of potential
evapotranspiration and cane age/month relationships and irrigation
efficiencies of 70 to 75%. The monthly estate irrigation requirements for
each estate are given in the following Table. These also include provision
for factory and other usage up to 5% of total demand. The overall
provisions are about 15% higher and when compared with actual usage of
water in the past and the existing practices recommended by the
Agricultural Research Station in Sennar. Under good management, these
should lead to higher yields than projected. The annual estate
requirements are estimated at 332 mcm at Guneid, 249 mcm at New Halfa, 344
mcm at Sennar and 330 mcm at Assalaya.
Water Availability
2.        Water availability, annual and seasonal, are no constraints on
the three schemes pumping from Blue and White Nile and water rights for the
project needs are already secured. The water rights for the sugar estate
at New Halfa is limited to annual diversion of 233 mcm. These are prior
rights over oth.r users on the scheme fed from gravity by Khasm El Girba
dam which is uniergoing rehabilitation under Credit 1022-SU. There is also
a margin of 20 mcm/yr in crop season at New Halfa to augment the water
supplies from the factory waste water. The quality of irrigation waters,
CISI (USDA classification) for most of the year is excellent for
irrigation. The canal and diversion capacities on each estate are more
than adequate to supply annual and peak demands.



SUDAN
Sugar Rehabilitation Project
Estate Water Requirements
Estate         Factors        Unit                                          MONTHS                                       Total
J     F      M     A      M-    J      J      A     S      0      N     D      Annual
Guneid       Penman Eto         mm        215   219   281   279   295   295   229   194   202   211   217   209    2,846
Crop Water reqt. mcm        17.3  17.4  17.7  17.9  21.1  21.4  19.0  15.4  20.1  18.7  18.6  17.1   221.7
Estate reqt.      mcm       26.0  26.2  26.6  26.8  31.6  32.1  28.5  23.1  30.1  28.1  27.8  25.6   332.5
New lialfa   Penman Eto         mm        172   184   231   249   260   250   215   196   195   210   182   170    2,344
Crop Water reqt. mcm        10.5  10.9  13.3  15.4  17.4  17.8  16.4  16.0  17.0  16.3  14.5  12.3   177.8                          1
Estate reqt.      mcm        14.7  15.3  18.6  21.6  24.4  24.9  23.0  22.4  23.8  22.8  20.3  172    249.0                         %o
Sennar       Penman Eto         mm        210   218   269   279   265   230   195   182   202   233   224   206    2,713
Crop Water reqt. mcm        19.5  20.1  20.6  20.5  22.1  24.0  17.8  16.3  22.2  22.3  21.6  19.2   246.2
Estate reqt.      mcm       27.3  28.2  28.9  28.8  30.9  33.6  25,0  21.6  31.0  31.2  30.3  27.1   343.5
Assalaya    Penman Eto          mm                    SAME          AS           AT         SENNAR                        2,713
Crop Water reqt. mcm        18.7  19.3  19.8  19.7  21.2  23.0  17.1  15.6  21.3  21.4  20.7  18.4   236.2
EState reqt.      mcm       26.2  27.1  27.7  27.6  29.7  32.3  24.0  20.7  29.8  30.0  29.1  26.0   330.2
Note:  1.  Crop water requirements are net of effective rainfall.
2.  Estate requirements also provide for factory and other uses (5% additional allowance are irrigation requirements.
I'd
0
0%
N



- 95 -
Annex 9
SUDAN
Sugar Rehabilitation Proiect
Details of Technical Services Provided Under the Project
Expected           Rate
Expertise of           Length of          (US$/ 2/        Total Costs 3/
Component                Consultant            Assignment        mu-year)    ESd'000    US$'000
Agricultural       Workshop Manager (4)             5               71.5       2,600.0    1,430.0
Workshops         Section Engineer (4)             3               61.2        1,335.3      734.4
Workshop Technicians (12)        3              61.2        4,005.9    2,203.2
Harvesting manager (4)           2              71.5        1,040.0       572.0
Factory            Deputy Factory Manager (4)       5               91.8       3,338.2    1,836.0
Maintenance Engineer (4)         3              71.5        1,560.0       858.0
Chemical Technologist (4)        3              71.5        1,560.0       858.0
Engineering Technician (4)       3              71.5        1,560.0       858.0
Elect./Instruuent Engineer (4) 3                 71.5       1,560.0       858.0
Business           Deputy Managing Director (4)   5                122.0       4,436.4    2,440.0
Administration   Training Manager (4))             5               91.8       3,338.2    1,836.0
6 Management      Business Manager (4)4)           5              91.8        3,338.2    1,836.0
Cosr/Management Controller (4) 4                71.5        2,080.0    1,144.0
Cost Accountants (8)             2              61.2        1,780.4       979.2
Project           Team Leader                       3              142.9         780.2       428.8
lmplementation   Agriculturalist                   3             127.1          693.9       381.4
Team              CivillIrrigation Engr.           3              127.1         693.9       381.4
Factory Engineer                 3             127.1          693.9       381.4
Accounts/Finance Spec.           3              127.1         693.9       381.4
Assorted Specialized            10 (man-
Technical Asst. 1/                years)      126.5        2,352.9    1,265.0
Training           Chief Technical Adv.             5              167.4                     837.2
Training Experts (4)             4              146.1                   2,337.4
Specialized Technical            3 (man-
Asst.                            years        146.1                      424.8
Design             Area Expansion at
Assalaya and Sennar
(if needed)                                     -          1,675.2       833.4
1/  Includes funds for specialized studies and inputs of technical personnel for components
such as research, design of accounting and maintenance systems, etc.
2/ Man-year rates for consultants provided under the Management Assistance and Training
component appear relatively low because these are base rates only, to be supplemented by a
base fee to the management company (financed under the project) and by incentive payments
based on performance (to be financed by the sugar companies).
3/ Includes all contingencies.



- 96-                     Annex 10
Page 1 of 3
SUDAN
Sugar Rehabilitation Project
TRAINING
1.        The four sugar estates in the public sector covered by the
Rehabilitation Project employ over 7,000 professional, technical and
administrative staff, and over 11,000 unskilled personnel on a seasonal
basis. These positions, established over a number of years, cover a wide
range of technical and professional skill requirements. However, due to
the increasing unattractiveness of the package of salary and incentives,
the turnover has been high, and financial constraints have 'mpeded manpower
development.
2.        The estates depend on the education system of the country for
their supply of personnel at different levels -- the VTCS for basic-trained
artisans, the Polytechnics for technician level, and the Agricultural and
Engineering Colleges, for professionals. The institutions primarily
involved are: the four VTCS (Vocational Training Centers); the Technical
Institutes of Agriculture at Wad Medani and Damazien; the Mechanical
Engineering College at Atbara; the Polytechnics at Khartoum and Gezira; and
the University of Khartoum which provides a specialized two-year
post-graduate diploma course in Sugar Technology. In addition, the
academic secondary schools, the technical secondary schools, and the
University of Khartoum provide the output at the general academic levels.
The output from these at technical and skilled levels is not however
adequate to cover the full needs of the industry.
3.        In addition to the above, the Sennar Training Center (located
within the Sennar Sugar Estate) was established to provide a measure of
training within the industry itself for the required number of artisan
level entrants. However, the center has been practically dormant for a
variety of reasons, the main one being deficiencies in infrastructure
construction, leading to a protracted dispute with the contractors; lack of
finance; lack of proper organization of and manning by skilled trainers;
and inadequate provision of hostel rooms, teaching facilities and
equipment. The Center is now in need of rehabilitation and reorganization.
4.        As a result, training, both external and in-house, has ceased to
keep pace with the evolving needs of the industry. There is a dire
shortage of trained staff at technician, vocational and operational levels
in all the estates. At higher technical levels, the employees have been
left with only the entry-level professional education they had received,
with practically no systematic attempt at upgrading skills as required for
middle and senior management positions. The lack of qualified and trained
staff is most intense in the fields of financial and material management.
5.        Training Objectives.  In parallel to the appraisal and
preparation of the Project, the Government of Sudan, with the approval of



- 97 -                     Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
IDA, involved UNIDO in the preparation of a training scheme for the
industry. The objectives of the components in the draft scheme (some of
the details of which are in the process of finalization) are: (i) to
establish mechanisms for effective internal training within the industry;
(ii) to develop appropriate skills training in the artisan fields,
supplementary to the national education system and in tune with the special
needs of the industry; (iii) to provide upgrading/adaptation training for
the technicians, and (iv) to provide the inputs needed to make training
systems viable on a continuing basis, by establishing the necessary
training infrastructure and a pool of trained trainers. The emphasis would
be on making full use of the national education system, and to supplement
it through the Sennar Training Center (to be properly rehabilitated) and
on-the-job training in the Estates, to adapt skills to the special
requirements of the industry at various levels of manning.
6.        Components.  (i)  The extent of formal training required at
various levels over the 5 years of the project has been assessed as
follows:
(a)  Management                 Fellowships for about 60 to be
supplemented outside project
budget by UNIDO to the extent
possible.
(b) Trainers
(i)  Full-time               175
(ii)  Part-time             1,000
Cc)  Technician/Supervisory        510
'd) Skilled/semi-skilled ]
(including areas of  ]    1,330
accounts & stores)   ]
TOTAL                       3,015
of (b) to (d)
The annual coverage proposed is as follows:
84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89   Total
(a) Trainers
(i)   Full-time        57      58       20      20       20      175
(ii)  Part-time       100     150      250     250      250    1,000
(b) Technicians/
Supervisors            30      90      130     130      130      510
(c) Vocational/skilled/
semi-skilled          120     160      350     350      350    1,330
Total               307     458      750     750      750    3,015



- 98 -                   Annex 10
Page 3 of 3
The estimates may be revised after detailed training programs are devised,
and will also be subject to annual review. The emphasis would be on: (a)
in engineering upgrading existing and training new mechnical staff in
agricultural workshops; (b) in finance and administration, on cost
accounting and management information, and storekeeping, (c) in
agriculture, on-the-job training for field-staff, particularly in the areas
of cultivation, ratoon-management, cane-cutting, and on-farm water
management, and (d) part-time instructors will be trained at the estates,
not with the objective of improving technical knowledge, but given basic
cowmunication skills so as to become better group leaders.
(ii)      The Sennar Training Center's teaching block and hostels will be
rehabilitated and an additional building provided, for libraries,
laboratory, and additional teaching rooms.  Twenty-two existing
staff-houses will be repaired/rehabilitated (the cost is estimated at about
LSd 800,000).
(iii)     The center will be provided training and demonstration equipment
for various disciplines under it (US$350,000) and with project vans and
cars and an auxiliary power generator.
(iv)      A total of 336 man-months of technical assistance would be
provided to help with detailed planning, introduction of new training
schemes, and provide training at the center and on-the-job in the estates.
This will include one Chief Technical Adviser and four experts to be
recruited through UNIDO, on the approval of IDA (US$3,420,000).
{v)       About 60 fellowships for training abroad of middle and senior
managers will be provided (US$900,000). It is assumed that this will be
supplemented to the extent possible by UNIDO from its resources.
(vi)      The organization of the estates will provide for a sub-department
for training under the Personnel Department. The Sennar Training Center is
proposed to be formed as an independent unit under the Sudan Sugar Board.
It is expected that UNIDO or a consulting firm will be made the executing
agency for the component within the overall discipline of the Project, for
monitoring, evaluation and coordination. There is a provision of
US$300,000 for the visits and operations of review missions.
The total cost of the component will be US$5.9 million.



- 99 -                     Annex 11
Page 1 of 3
SUDAN
Sugar Rehabilitation Project
Management Assistance and Training Component
I. Objectives
1.        In order to ensure effective implementation of the rehabilitation
project and a smooth transition to commercial operations, a Management
Assistance and Training (MAT) component is to be financed under the
proposed project. Under this component an international sugar firm would
be engaged to provide selected management services and personnel to each of
the four sugar companies during the project period. These firms would:
(a) provide a core group of senior managers at each company to
manage operations in concert with the existing Sudanese
management;
(b) provide technical personnel in the field, equipment workshops
and factories to assist in the running of day-to-day
operations;
(c) implement new management, accounring, financial, and
operations and maintenance systems designed under the project;
and
(d) train existing technical and managerial staff to take over
these functions in the shortest practicable time.
II. Description of Services
2.        A separate MAT team will be engaged for each of the four sugar
companies, on the general terms described in section III below. Each team
will be headed by a Deputy Managing Director under the Managing Director (a
Sudanese). The Government is fully aware of the need to reserve ultimate
decision-making powers for Sudanese management. This is to be ensured by
entrusting these powers, in the case of the four sugar factories, to the
Board of Directors, who will in turn delegate them to the Managing Director
(a Sudanese) who will be the senior manager at each company. Subject to
this, the Management Assistance Team will necessarily have to be given
decision-making powers to the extent needed to produce the results for
which they are to be held accountable (see Section III), and in particular
they must have responsibility for day-to-day operations.
3.        It is proposed to give adequate and effective, but not total,
control to the expatriate team by having the Deputy Nanaging Director
responsible for day-to-day operations in which his decision will generally



- 100 -                    Annex 11
Page 2 of 3
be final. The Managing Director will coordinate and monitor major issues,
and be the judge of last resort when disputes arise, but will leave
day-to-day management to the Deputy. In order to ensure the full
involvement of the Sudanese management, the Deputy Managing Director will
head a technical committee consisting of both expatriate and Sudanese
department heads which will decide on all day-to-day operational and policy
matters.
4.        Under the Deputy Managing Director, the MAT team will consist of
17 expatriates in the first two years, reducing to 5 in year 5, as
permanent staff are trained and management functions progressively handed
over to Sudanese staff. Each team shall have the following composition:
Personnel             No. of Years
Deputy Managing Director          5
Training Officer                  5
Agricultural Staff
Workshop Manager                  5
Section Engineer                  3
Workshop Technicians (3)          3
Harvesting & Transport Manager   2
Factory Staff
Deputy Factory Manager            5
Maintenance Engineer              3
Chemical Technologist             3
Engineering Technician            3
Electrical/Instrumentation Eng.  3
Business & Finance Staff
Business Manager                  5
Cost/Management Controller        4
Cost Accountants (2)              2
The proposed phasing of staff, which is subject to re-assessment at the
mid-term review (para. 4.22), is thus:
Year               1      2     3    4    5
Number of Staff      17    17    14    6    5
III. Terms of Management Assistance and Training Contracts
5.        Firms to provide the MAT teams will be selected on the basis of
international competition among a short-list of prequalified companies
following standard IDA guidelines. It is tentatively assumed that no
single international firm would provide services for more than two of the
sugar companies. The terms of the contracts to be awarded would be agreed



- 101 -                   Annex 11
Page 3 of 3
between IDA, GOS and the other co-financiers, and would be guided by the
following two principles:
(a)  management firms would be contractually committed to the
training of counterparts and the phasing out of expatriate
staff; and
(b)  the contracts would provide a limited set of incentives and
penalties to ensure performance.
6.        In order to ensure compliance with the training and localization
objective each contract will be for a period of three years, renewable
annually for a maximum of two further years; and the management firms would
be contractually obligated to train counterparts and replace expatriates
according to agreed annual programs. Progress in this regard would be
monitored through the Annual Work Program and Hid-Term Review mechanisms.
7.        Accountability will be secured by contracting for:
(a)  payment on the basis of achieving targets and cost reductions.
(b)  penalities for non-performance;
(c)  introduction of cost and management-accounting systems; and,
(d)  an annual review of performance by an independent management
consultant acceptable to IDA.
8.        The terms of premiums and penalties to apply will be determined
in detail during negotiations, but will include the payment of a bonus
dependent upon achieving production above given agreed targets, for
achieving improvements in agreed technical parameters above specified
target levels, and for reductions in unit costs below agreed target levels.
9.        A chart describing the proposed MAT teams in attached as Chart
II.



- 102 -                   Annex 12
SUDAN
Sugar Rehabilitation Project
Arrangements for Project Procurement
Procurement of Goods and Civil Works
1.        The Project Procurement Committee (PPC) would be headed by an
official of MOFEP and membership would include inter alia all Implementing
Agencies and SPIC (IA's and SPIC). The Chairman of PPC would be delegated
the powers of MOFEP in regard to procurement.
2.        PPC would, in consultation with SPIC, prepare and finalize
procurement packages for the project.
3.        Technical and commercial specifications for all procurement
packages would be prepared by lA's and cleared by SPIC in accordance with a
time schedule, format and other relevant guidelines prepared by SPIC.
4.        For all procurement other than LIT's and ICB's, the IA's would
process all stages of processing of tenders, from invitation to award.
5.        For LIT's and ICB's PPC will be responsible for (a) approval and
issue of instructions to tenderers and conditions of contract, (b)
preparation and printing of all tender documents and processing to opening
of bids, (c) bid technical and commercial evaluation through its committees
and subcommittees comprising representatives of SPIC, all IA's and such
experts as may be co-opted, (d) communications with IDA in this regard, and
(e) signing of contracts.
6.        SPIC would nominate the IA's for all post-contract
responsibilities, including payment to suppliers/contractors.
Procurement of Technical Services
7.        The procurement of all consultancy and support services under the
project would be coordinated by SPIC. SPIC, in conjunction with the
concerned agency or sugar company, would draft the terms of reference for
such consultants, would screen and select prospective firms or individuals
to provide consultancy services, and would approve the terms and conditions
of employment of such consultants.
a,        Consultancy contracts would be executed by the concerned agency
or sugar company. SPIC would continue to be involved in monitoring
consultant's performance and supervising their activities once appointed.



- 103 -                   Ansnex 13
Page 1 of 2
SUDAN
Susar Rehabilitation Project
Documents Available on Project Files
1.        The preparation report prepared by consultants is available in 22
volumes. These are:
Main Report
Annex 1, Parts 1-3, Guneid
Annex 2, Parts 1-3, New Halfa
Annex 3, Parts 1-3, Sennar
Annex 4, Parts 1-3, Assalaya
Annex 5, Organization, Manpower Development and Training (3
parts)
Annex 6, Financial Management
Annex 7, Marketing
Annex 8, Agricultural Research (2 parts)
Annex 9, Project Analysis (2 parts)
Annex 10, Drawlngs
In addition, the same consultants had previously prepared a Phase I report
in 5 volumes, which reviews sector background and the production histories
of the four sugar estates.
2.        The following reports were prepared by consultants during project
pre-appraisal:
(i)  Draft Working Papers on the Sugar Industry In Sudan
(C.N. Raghavan, February 1983), comprising:
(a) Stafflng and Salary Structures
(b) Marketing Policy
(c) Price Policles
(d) Sugar Industry Organization
(ii) Draft Working Papers on the Factory Components
(H. Idehara, February 1983), comprising:
(a) Factory Components (General)
(b) Guneid Factory
(c) New Halfa Factory
(d) Sennar and Assalaya Factories
(iII) Draft Working Papers on Agrlcultural Aspects
(G. Bacs, February 1983), comprising:



- 104 -                   Annex 13
Page 2 of 2
(a)  Agriculture
(b)  Agricultural Research
(c) Training
(d) Cane Transport
(e)  Comments on the Project Preparation Report (1, above)
(iv) Draft Geotechnical Report on Condition of Civil Works at
Sennar and Assalaya (Woodward & Clyde Consultants, 1983)
3.        The following additional reports are relevant to the project and
to the sugar sub-sector:
(i)  Sudan:  Investing for Economic                IDA Report
Stabilitation and Structural Change           No. 3551a,
February 1982
(ii)  The Sugar Industry of the Sudan               Economist
(2 volumes)                               Intelligence Unit
1981
Ciii)  Sudan Export Development Strategy             IDA Report
No. 4263-SU
December 1983
(iv)  Sudan:  Pricing Policies and                  IDA Report
Structural Balances (3 volumes)               No. 4528a-SU
November 1983



SUDAN
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Sudan Sugar Industry - Simplfited Orgonizallon and Funcilons
I EcaacmEc Cwn co d ii  |
I    Ccuncil d Mn n te
(mWhip)
~~~L  ~~~~~~~I~
|MnisJtry dixndarV                                                MhVildVodAeuLAutol                      Mrn4k ;iloc d               |mnr  M nstrf d Cctriorco
(MO)                                                               & w9 oiion                         a Ecnot  PIqnGn Jt    Suppn&X y
urit~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
- -  -  -           -lcpon l   -   - -   -                                                                                                                                                          8o--pro7
*............. CoruCapifoa
LkwContrd ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Ceto
aodutio     Ceetoordo                         Cotdno  rn ?o-nnco  e nt
.............. CornsUftdion                                                                                                                                                                                                .



SUDAN
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Structure of Sugar Companies and Management
Assistance and Troining Componenl
Owd d CkCIc*t
Ib~O M   ota' I
g SEcn  {                         G                                 | ftaz  |                                             r  >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cAh, ---
l    t'    1                  |   t4hea   1                         |   t         |                                        | Eczzurwtondt2)' |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mowans 2)
< < 1                                                                  9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~su*-t 



-107-                          Chart III
0.
Cie ID~~~                                               I
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
0                                                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



IBRD I7953
2?                           3cI                           3'5*             JMIRY 19a4
ARAB    REPUBLIC.   OF             EGYPT                     _ed
Wadi Halfo/     
SUDAN                                                                              Seo
SUGAR  REHABILITATION  PROJECT                     -                I'
Project Locations                                    |               RED
\-4  n   N O R T HU R N       I I;Soli no. 10  5%EI Sudan
I                  )  NiLE  N                          A~~~~SE 
j      i-  ~~~~~~~~~~~//    > ~~~~~~~ Atboro            joy 
NORTHERN   i                                  /
DA RFUR                                 OnHAR8^ F  E'm
o       5                         1                              \      -              Kio 
15        I,V-                                 NORTHERN                          1G5EI
J        I.                                           )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KASSA. A
i           )a ),e,  KORDOFAN                          MdENNA n EoGAdo       - 
3I                        El Faosher   .E a                                        
,A to-) /                              }      ElIObeid          Kot 
u  (a h 0ZoI.nge,                                                                                       .
SOUTHERN                           SOUTHERN A A                Edn   (
DARFUR         l              0Kodugti                                 I
f       '                          \          CKORDOFAN /  
CEr:NTRAL                           E-                                                       02(t
AFRICAN                                 -      -       .-..    olol
REPUBLIC                                                              N I NI
j   E  T R A  L )HR                    EL ._
--C-             (                          - - /cs    -              \_   },              Sugar Estots
__o rn__   -    \ t               ;                 ', -._       _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railwaoys
C..   a._           _                                    I               /              o  Selected Towns
>  GHAZAL'~
4__4__* _____                                    - __  B UHEYRA T
U-~~~~~~~>                      J --     UtKA   -->                             -   IiroinlBudr 
_P_S_ 15' a>_.,. ., O~~~~~~~~Rumbek ~.
LIBYA  | ARAB                          .r
R AEP OF      Q..SADIARABJA       _,_ 
EGYPT
f _  r_  __n t~~~SUDI ARABIA    >         ESEN                  
~~'    (7 ~~~WESTERNI
jHAD       <'i  ?;" 9x 'N  _.         ,  EOUA TORIA                   E EASrERN /
CH(AD rl~i                    5           _          Maridi   4    OJOOA7@              RA >
sU                           0     *~~~   OJUbO~EOUA rORIA
S U D A N                              !.%|_
ETHIOPIA                                        '         ~-            ~  ~  '
5g9 AUIAi Z A I R EAIRE                                                   K EN Y A
_.I' f ZAIRE  )gsfKINYA /~                                                        'I4/UGANDA






