Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
~F:LCE OP!1
Report No. P-3816-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 56.4 MILLION
TO
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
FOR A
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 11, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Sudanese Pound           =           100 piastre
LSD 1.00                 =           US$ 0.77 (official)
LSd 1.00                 =           US$ 0.56 (open market)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Feddan (fd)               =          0.42 hectare (ha)
Kantar (seed cotton)                  143 kilogram (kg)
Kilowatt (kw)            =            1.36 horsepower (hp)
'Megawatt (mw)           =            1000 kilowatt (kw)
Gigawatt Hour (gwh)      =           1 million kilowatt hours
ABBREVIATIONS
ARC               Agriculture Research Corporation
ARP               Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
AWP               Annual Work Program
GOS               Government of Sudan
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
KfW               Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LCB               Local Competitive Bidding
MOI               Ministry of Industry
MOAI              Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
MOAI(I)           MOAI Irrigation Department
MOFEP             Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MCCS              Ministry of Cooperation, Commerce and Supply
NEC               National Electricity Corporation
PCST              Public Corporation for Sugar Trading
PPC               Project Procurement Committee
PPF               Project Preparation Facility
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
SCG               Sugar Consultative Group
SDC               Sugar and Distilleries Corporation
SPIC              Sugar Project Implementation Cell
TCD               Tons of Cane per Day
TSY               Tons of Sugar per Year
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OFMICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT & PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Democratic Republic of Sudan
Beneficiaries:    Ministry of Industry (MOI), and four sugar companies viz:
Guneid Sugar Co. Ltd., New Halfa Sugar Co. Ltd., Sennar
Sugar Co. Ltd., Assalaya Sugar Co. Ltd.
Amount:            SDR 56.4 million ($60.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Onlending Terms:  US$22.8 million to be onlent to the four sugar companies
at 16 percent interest, 12 year repayment including 5
years grace, with the Government bearing the foreign
exchange risk; the balance being made available to MOI as
budgetary transfers to finance research, training and
technical assistance (US$10.7 million) and for equity
participation in the sugar companies (US$26.5 million).
Co-Financing:      Federal Republic of Germany (KfW) - $17.3 million
equivalent on a grant basis; Arab Fund for Economic and
Social Development - $47.2 million equivalent at 4
percent interest, 20 years repayment including 5 year
grace period; Saudi Fund - $23.5 million equivalent with
terms not yet agreed.
Project Description:
Objective:         The project would, over a five year period, raise crop
yields and sugar production of the four sugar companies
through rehabilitation of estates and their associated
factories and strengthen the Borrower's management of the
sugar sector.
Components:        The project would include: (i) physical rehabilitation of
irrigation systems, machinery, equipment, and
infrastructure, (ii) a set of measures to ensure that an
adequate and timely provision of production inputs takes
place, (iii) a phased program of institutional and
financial re-adjustments which will establish proper
production arrangements and incentives, (iv) research
facilities to find more suitable cane varieties, and (v)
training in technical, management and accounting skills.
Benefits:          The principal benefit would be net annual foreign
exchange savings of approximately US$67 million by the
end of the project in 1989. The project would also
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



create 1,150 permanent and 5,320 seasonal jobs, and would
increase the incomes and living conditions of tenant
farmers and laborers.
Risks:             Project risks include possible failure to make the
necessary pricing and policy adjustments, and possible
managerial and technical. failures in implementation.
Provision has been made in the project design to minimize
these risks to the exten.t possible.



(iii )
US$ Millions
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
Local    Foreign        Total
Agriculture
Agricultural Machinery           6.7        38.8        45.5
Vehicles                         0.3         1.4          1.7
Workshops                        1.6         5.1          6.7
Irrigation
Field Works                      3.7         8.1        11.8
Power Generation                 2.5         8.7        11.2
Factory
Process Equipment                7.1        34.8        41.9
Civil Works                      1.8         6.7         8.5
Infrastructure
Communic., Elec. & Equip.        0.6         2.9         3.5
Buildings, Housing & Water    6.0            6.4        12.4
Support Services
Office Equipment                 1.0         2.8         3.8
Tech. & Mgt. Services             -         22.4        22.4
Project Implementation Team  1/   0.4             4.4         4.8
Training                             0.5          5.4         5.9
Research                             0.3          0.9         1.2
Total Project Costs                 32.5        148.8       181.3
Physical Conting. (7.8%)             2.9         11.3        14.2
Price Conting.   (11.4%)             1.3         19.4        20.7
FINANCING PLAN
IDA Credit                            -         60.0         60.0
Other Cofinanciers
(a) Saudi Fund                    -         23.5        23.5
(b) Arab Fund                     -         47.2        47.2
(c) Germany (KfW)                 -         17.3        17.3
(d) Government of Sudan         32.5         0.8        33.3
Total             32.5        148.8       181.3
1/   Includes $1,000,000 PPF advance.



-  iv
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT
FISCAL YEAR
IDA CREDIT             1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Annual                   11.5    21.2       14.1    7.7      4.7      0.8
Cumulative               11.5    32.7       46.8   54.5    59.2    60.0
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN  -  40 percent
APPRAISAL REPORT:
Report No. 4980-SU, dated Apri'L 30, 1984
MAP: IBRD No. 17953



INTEP1NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Democratic Republic of the Sudan for SDR 56.4
million (US$60.0 million equivalent) to help finance a Sugar Rehabilitation
Project. The credit will be on standard IDA terms. Co-financing will be
provided by the Saudi Fund (($23.5 million equivalent), Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development ($47.2 million equivalent), and the Federal
Republic of Germany ($17.3 million equivalent) on a parallel financing
basis on terms elaborated in paragraph 64.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Sudan in January 1983.  Its report
("Pricing Policies and Structural Balances") No.4528a-SU of November 10,
1983 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. The findings of the
mission are reflected below. Summary tables of social, economic and
financial data are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the
largest country in Africa. It has a population of about 19.8 million (1982
estimate) and is classified by the UN as a least developed country. Per
capita GNP is estimated at about US$460 (1982 Atlas methodology).,/ Much
of the country is unoccupied or very sparsely populated and there is
relatively little population pressure on the land. Although much of the
country is desert or semi-desert, the Sudan has great untapped potential
for agricultural development. About two-thirds of the total land area is
suitable for crop or pastoral production, but only a small fraction of this
land is under intensive use. The economy is heavily dependent on exports
of cotton, the major commodity from irrigated land, and on groundnuts,
sesame and gum arabic. The manufacturing sector is relatively small and is
limited to processing agricultural commodities such as cotton, oil seeds
and sugar and to the production of consumer goods and building materials.
A development of potential significance to Sudan's prospects is the
discovery of oil reserves in the southwestern part of the country.  An
export pipeline carrying around 50,000 b/d will be constructed, and export
is expected to commence in 1986. The public sector has long been important
in the Sudanese economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the
railways, virtually all power and water supply, and a significant
1/ Based on the official exchange rates for the period 1978 - 1980/81.
Based on the exchange rate as of November 15, 1982 of LSd 1.00 =
US$0.769, per capita GNP for 1981/82 would have been about $278.



-2-
proportion of industry, commerce and finance. Although some industrial
enterprises are being returned to the private sector, about half of the GDP
is still generated within the public sector.
The Current Crisis
4.        The most immediate problem facing Sudan is the balance of
payments situation.  Between 1972/73 and 1974/75, the deficit on current
account increased from US$11 million to about US$470 million and remained
between US$450 and US$550 million until 1979/80, when the combination of a
doubling of oil prices and a serious decline in cotton production pushed
the deficit to over US$900 million. A further reduction in cotton exports
and increased petroleum imports led to a current account deficits of US$809
million in 1980/81 and US$1.3 billion in 1981/82. Gross official reserves
have fallen to only a few days worth of imports. By end 1982, external
payments arrears had accumulated to above $2.2 billion.
.5.       The crisis is largely the consequence of inadequate economic
management policies compounded by external factors, such as the sharply
increased cost of petroleum imports, which have constrained Government's
ability to respond quickly with effectLve remedial action. Adverse
developments in foreign trade were accompanied by other adverse forces
including reduced flows of external capital after 1976, mounting debt
problems, and absorptive capacity constraints.
6.        The rapid increase in the vaLue of imports came about partially
because of the sharp increase in oil prices and the steep rate of
international inflation, particu:Larly iin 1973/74 and 1974/75. There was,
however, a sharp rise in the volume of imports between 1974/75 and 1977/78;
since then, imports have actually declined in real terms. Exports declined
in real terms by nearly 50 percent between 1972/73 and 1981/82. The
decline was concentrated in cotton and this occurred because of a shift
from cotton to other crops and also because of falling cotton yields. The
volume of cotton exports in 1981/82 was less than 15 percent of the 1971/72
level. Transport difficulties and other infrastructural problems
contributed to this decline, as did declining maintenance in many public
irrigation schemes.
7.        The rise in development experLditures after 1973 was financed in
large measure by external capital, but because of absorptive capacity
problems, disbursements of this capital declined unexpectedly in the
mid-1970s, dropping from $465 million in 1974 to $332 million in 1977 and
1978. Because of the slow disbursements and accumulating arrears, external
donors became less willing to make new commitments. Sudan faced a
difficult choice: either to cut back on projects just started or to
maintain the projects by running down foreign exchange reserves and
borrowing from banks or other sources abroad. The Government decided to
try to sustain the development effort by using reserves and by borrowing
heavily on relatively hard terms. Annual external public debt service
payments falling due increased from $55 million in 1972/73 to more than
$800 million in 1982/83. The debt service burden as a proportion of
exports of goods and services increased from 12 percent in 1972/73 to over



-3-
100 percent in 1982/83. This unfavorable debt profile has not only led to
a heavy current debt service burden, but also has critical implications for
future debt service obligations.
8.        The structural weakness in Sudan's public sector finances became
increasingly pronounced during the course of the 1970s. Sharp increases in
expenditures were not matched by increases in revenue. The consequent
sharp rise in public sector demands on the domestic banking system led to a
rapid acceleration in the growth of money supply, which reached 44 percent
in 1976/77. Although the monetary expansion has slowed in succeeding
years, the growth rate over the period 1977/78-1980/81 still averaged
nearly 25 percent per year; during 1980/81, the rate of expansion again
rose to around 50 percent and, after a slowdown in 1981/82, rose again in
1982/83 by around 30 percent. This contributed to an acceleration in
annual price increases from 6 percent in the early 1970s to over 30 percent
in the past two years. Most of the increases in current expenditures have
been for social and community services, transfers to local government, and
general administration. The sharp increases in general administration
expenditures were due in large part to rising wages and salaries of
civilians in the central government, cost of living subsidies and
extra-budgetary expenditures. On the revenue side, tax revenues have
increased over the past few years; but since the tax system is relatively
inelastic, these increases have been made possible only with frequent new
tax measures. Recent changes, such as efforts to increase the relative
contribution of direct taxes, should improve elasticity somewhat.
Policy Changes
9.        Against this background of serious payments imbalances and
general economic crisis stemming from structural maladjustments in
production and trade, the Government has taken several significant
decisions in the last few years to establish financial equilibrium, to
restore export growth through appropriate policies and public investments,
to improve the performance of the public corporations, and to install an
adequate system for management of the nation's external debt.
(a) Financial Stabilization and IMF Agreements
10.       In June 1978, a stabilization program was announced as part of a
Stand-by Agreement with the IMF.  The Agreement included a variety of
measures to establish a more realistic exchange rate, reduce deficit
financing, control foreign borrowing, and improve production incentives,
particularly in the irrigated agriculture sector. In May 1979, agreement
was reached on similar policy actions that allowed access to a three-year
Extended Fund Facility (EFF).
11.       In November 1980, the Fund Board approved a second year program
under the EFF. Because of non-compliance with agreed targets, the
Government was not able to make drawings in the third and fourth quarters
of 1980/81. Subsequently, in March 1981, several measures were taken to
strengthen the central government's budget, including increases in
petroleum product prices, import duties and the prices of cigarettes and
liquor. Further measures were taken in November 1981, including (i) a



- 4 -
unification of the official and parallel exchange rates at a new
depreciated rate of LSd 1.00 = US$1.11; (ii) removal of budgetary
subsidies for petroleum products, wheat products, and sugar; and (iii)
measures designed to raise revenueis and constrain credit expansion. These
measures, together with pledges at a special Donors Meeting in January 1982
that closed the financing gap in the program, made it possible in the
following month for the IMF to approve al one-year Stand-by Arrangement for
the Sudan of SDR 198 million. However, this program also lapsed in
mid-term because of the Government's inability to comply with all of its
conditions.
12.        The 1982 Stand-by Arrangement was subsequently cancelled.
Further policy measures were taken in December 1982, including a 44 percent
devaluation of the Sudanese Pound to LS 1.00 - US$0.77. The Government
also prepared a comprehensive medium-term recovery program, Prospects,
Programmes and Policies for Economic Development, 1982/83-1984/85 (see
para. 18); this document formed the basis for discussions at the
Consultative Group Meeting in Paris in January 1983. The outcome of this
Meeting, together with a new debt restructuring package obtained from the
Paris Club in February 1983 (see para. 17), enabled the IMF to approve a
Stand-by Arrangement for 1983 for a total amount of SDR 170 million. This
program was satisfactorily carried out, and the terms of a new Standby
Arrangement for 1984 have been agreed between the Government and the IMF
with implementation subject to confirmat:ion that adequate donor support
will be available to carry out the agreed program.
(b) Export Promotion and Public Investment Programs
13.        An essential aspect of the Government's stabilization program is
a concerted drive to increase foreign exchange earnings through increased
exports. This is being carried out under the Export Action Program (EAP),
initiated in mid-1979. The EAP was designed to raise the volume of cotton
exports at an average rate of 7 percent per annum during the period
1979-91. By mid-1981 the actual production of seed cotton had in fact
declined further, but 1981/82 saw a substantial recovery with a 50 percent
increase in production volume. Tthis improving trend was continued in
1982/83 with a further 25 percent increase, and the total seed cotton
production is now close to 85 percent of the original target in the Export
Action Program. Several investments in the irrigated subsector are
supporting this export recovery. Under the Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program (Credit No. 1000-SU of US$65 miLlion and EEC Special Action Fund
Credit of about US$11 million), funds were made available for urgently
needed spare parts and equipment. Several rehabilitation projects will be
carried out in the 1980s. The New Halfa Rehabilitation Project, Credit
1022-SU, approved in May 1980, was the first of these, followed by projects
for the Blue and White Nile. A rehabilitation project for the largest
irrigation scheme, the Gezira, was approved in FY 1983. The Agricultural
Rehabilitation Program II (Credit No. 1389-SU) provides much needed foreign
exchange for purchases of agricultural :Lnputs in the sub-sector. In
addition, several policy measures have been taken in the areas of cost
recovery, cotton marketing. and instituitional reform.
14.        Simultaneously with the EAP, ithe Gcvernment reduced the size of
its overall development program, as ref'lected in the Six-Year Plan, to a



- 5 -
more realistic level consistent with expected external and domestic
financial resources. In 1979 the Government prepared the first Three-Year
Public Investment Program covering the period 1978/79-1980/81. This
Program has been updated three times; the latest investment program,
covering the period 1983/84-1985/86, was incorporated into the updated
medium-term recovery program presented to the Consultative Group Meeting
held in December 1983.
(c) Public Corporations
15.       The Government has taken several actions to help remedy the
problems of the public enterprises. The Government has abolished a
cumbersome and overly centralized corporate structure in agriculture and
replaced it with more autonomous agricultural entities. Organizational
reforms have also been implemented in the industrial and commercial sectors
as well. During the past year the Government has substantially increased
the prices for products of public corporations to improve their financial
positions.
(d) Management of External Debt
16.       As indicated earlier, Sudan's external debt burden has been quite
heavy for a number of years. The total disbursed outstanding external debt
at the end of 1983 amounted to around US$8.0 billion. Scheduled debt
service payments for 1984 exceed US$1.0 billion. During the mid-seventies
external debt management was weak, in part because authority to engage in
foreign borrowing and the administration of foreign loans was divided among
many different ministries. This inefficiency was ameliorated through the
decision to vest sole authority for foreign borrowing with the Ministry of
Finance. A debt management unit (DMU) in the Ministry of Finance was
established in 1979, but this unit has not operated effectively. A new
unit, the Directorate for External Finance, is now being established,
directly linked to the Minister of Finance's office, to remedy this
situation and will be supported by a technical adviser provided by the IMF.
17.       Steps have also been taken to deal with the severe debt arrears
problems. In November 1979, a Paris Club meeting was held on the
rescheduling of Sudan's debt. Participating countries (Austria, Belgium,
Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the
United Kingdom, the United States) and the Government reached agreement on:
(a) a rescheduling or refinancing of amounts falling due before October 1,
1979 and not paid (arrears); and (b) a rescheduling or refinancing of
*            amounts owed for the period October 1979 to June 1981.  A further meeting
held in March 1982 rescheduled maturities falling due between July 1981 and
December 1982. The first payment on this arrangement was made by Sudan,
but because of an increasing scarcity of foreign exchange, the Government
was unable to discharge the other payments on time. The magnitude of
Sudan's debt problem and its inability to pay its rescheduled debt payments
led, in October 1982, to the appointment of an "External Finance
Coordinator". The first step towards a viable long-term solution to
Sudan's debt problem was taken by the Paris Club in February 1983 when it
agreed to reschedule all outstanding obligations due up to the end of 1983
over 16 years, with a six-year grace period. Agreements for 1983 payments
were also made with the commercial banks and other creditors.



-6-
New Recovery Program
18.        In October 1983, the Government issued a new medium-term recovery
program entitled Prospects, Programmes and Policies for Economic
Development: 1983/84-1985/86.   In addit:ion to a  realistic three-year
public investment program focused on economic recovery, primarily through
rehabilitation of the export sector and economically efficient import
substitution (especially in sugar), this document contained macro
projections through 1990/91 that reflect the long-term nature of the
recovery process and a set of short and medium term policy objectives
covering areas such as foreign trade, production, demand management,
resource allocation and external resource mobilization.
19.        At the Consultative Group Meeting held in Paris on December
14-16, 1983, the Government presented its updated version of the
medium-term recovery program document, and requested program and project
aid to support the recovery program. At: this meeting, the Government was
commended by many donors for the actions taken during 1983 to implement its
recovery program. Subsequently, the Paris Club met on May 3, 1984 and
agreed to reschedule a substantial portion of the debt service payments
falling due in 1984 in order to help close the balance of payments gap for
this year. This debt rescheduling should make possible the implementation
of a new Standby Arrangement with the IMF, the terms of which have already
been agreed. If the Government builds on the progress which has been made
by staying within the terms of the IMF Standby Arrangement, keeping the
exchange rate realistic, continuing to encourage agricultural output by
maintaining adequate price levels for crops, and by adhering to its
announced development strategy for the next several years, a slow but
steady improvement in the balance of payments situation can be anticipated.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SUDAN
20.        World Bank Group gross commitments to Sudan to date total
US$953.4 million. Of this, US$33.0 million are IFC commitments. There
have been eight loans (two on Third Window terms) and 35 credits for a
total of 38 projects. Twenty projects are under implementation. Over 50
percent of total Bank/IDA lending has been for agricultural development:
seven irrigation projects, three rainfed mechanized farming projects, four
smallholder development projects; a livestockc marketing project; an
agricultural research project; two Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
Credits, and an agricultural credit project. Projects in other sectors
include: three power projects, three education projects, three highway
projects, a domestic aviation project, four railway projects, two port
projects, two technical assistance projects, and two industrial credit
projects.  Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1984.
21.        Physical progress in implemernting development projects in Sudan
has been mixed.  Many projects have dif ficulty in getting key materials -
cement, fuel and timber of which there are periodic shortages. Belated



- 7 -
delivery of equipment and supplies due to transportation difficulties also
affects most projects. The continuing drain of skilled manpower to the
Middle East oil rich countries takes its toll on effective preparation and
implementation of projects. Largely as a result of these problems, the
Savannah Development Project (Credit 718-SU of June 24, 1977) had to be
redesigned into a much smaller pilot project (Credit 1181-SU). Also, the
Domestic Aviation Project (Loan 1287-T; Credit 643-SU of July 7, 1976)
encountered serious delays and cost overruns and had to be terminated.
There have also been lengthy delays in meeting effectiveness conditions,
mainly because of problems in establishing new institutions or project
accounts, hiring key staff, completing necessary legal documentation, or
concluding required co-financing arrangements. These problems have been
brought to the attention of Government authorities, and steps have been
taken to resolve some of them such as in procurement and obtaining legal
opinions.
22.       The disbursement rate, i.e., actual disbursements during the year
as a percentage of the undisbursed balance at the beginning of the year,
declined from 23.4 percent in FY78 to 12.1 percent in FY81, but in FY82 the
rate improved markedly to 27.7 percent. The FY83 disbursement rate was
25.8 percent, as compared to 24.7 percent for Eastern Africa and 23.4
percenc Bank-wide.
Assistance Strategy
23.       The Bank Group assistance strategy has been to encourage the
Government to undertake a broad program of economic reform aimed at
addressing the structural imbalances in the economy. We have been working
very closely with the Government and the IMF in the development and
implementation of Sudan's economic recovery program, which formed the basis
for a Consultative Group meeting in January 1983 and a Standby Arrangement
with the IMF (para. 12). This was followed by the creation of a Joint
Monitoring Committee (JMC), where the aid donors and the Government jointly
monitor progress in carrying out the program, and continued Bank
involvement in reviewing the updated versions of the recovery program and
in chairing Consultative Group meetings. In broad outline, this program
concentrates Government resources on the rehabilitation of existing capital
investments, particularly those which can contribute to expanding export
earnings, while restraining investment in new projects. The Government's
actions to deal with the current adverse economic conditions have led IDA
to consider Sudan as eligible for the Special Action Program.At the project
level, IDA has emphasized the rehabilitation of irrigated agriculture,
Sudan's major export earner, plus improvements in infrastructure needed to
service the agricultural sector. The Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
(Credit 1000-SU of April 4, 1980) was effective in stimulating cotton
production through the provision of badly needed spare parts and
replacement machinery for the irrigated sector, and by encouraging the
Government to take some important steps toward improving incentives to
farmers through better cotton prices and costing arrangements for the
irrigated schemes. The Second Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (IDA
Credit 1389-SU) followed up this earlier effort by making available
financing for recurrent agricultural inputs. We will continue to



concentrate IDA lending on the agricultural sector and critical
infrastructure during the period ahead, with proposed projects in cotton
marketing, electric power expansion, and petroleum exploration.
Relationship to other Aid Flows
24.       Bank and IDA lending - both new commitments and disbursements -
represent about 10 to 15 percent of total aid flows to the Sudan. We
expect that this relationship will continue at about the same level during
the next several years. Bank and IDA obligations represent about 6 percent
of Sudan's total outstanding and disbursed debt. Bank/IDA debt service was
only about 1 percent of Sudan's total external debt service falling due in
1983, While this may rise slightly in the next several years, it will
remain a very small portion of Sudan's total debt service obligations.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in Sudan
25.       The agricultural sector dominates the Sudanese economy.  It
provides for the livelihood of 80 percent of the population and contributes
about 40 percent of GDP and 95 percent of exports. The bank published a
survey of the Agricultural Sector in May 1979 (Report No. 1836a-SU) and a
review of the sector is included in the Bank economic report "Sudan-Pricing
Policies and Structural Balances" issued on November 10, 1983 (Report No.
4528a-SU).
26.       Investment in agriculture has been concentrated in modern sector
irrigation and rainfed mechanized farming in the east-central region, with
cotton, groundnuts, wheat, sorghum, and sugarcane being the principal
crops. The traditional sector has contributed to exports of livestock,
groundnuts, gum arabic, and sesame. The irrigated subsector, which
includes sugar, accounts for by far the largest share of agricultural
activity and production. It consists of a number of large schemes
developed since the 1920's which rely on irrigation water from the Nile
river system. Principal among these are the Gezira, New Halfa, Rahad and
Blue and White Nile Pump Schemes. There was a steady decline in production
and yields from irrigated agriculture during the 1970s, resulting in a
greatly reduced volume of cotton and exports and an increase in sugar
imports. These trends have been reversed during the past three years due to
improved Government policies relating to pricing and payments to farmers,
and to investment in rehabilitation, with a resulting sharp increase in
cotton output.
The Sugar Sub-Sector
Production and Consumption
27.       The soils and climate of Sudan are well suited to sugar
production, and initial attempts to establish a sugar industry in the
1960's were successful. Since then, however, the industry has suffered a
number of setbacks, and a major rehabilitation effort now needs to be



-9-
undertaken. While consumption has been growing, output has been declining,
resulting in a drain on scarce foreign exchange reserves to finance imports
of sugar. During the last crop year, Sudan produced approximately 360,000
tons of sugar at one joint public/private sector and four public sector
sugar estates. This is an improvement over the very poor production
figures of the last few years, but is still below both the level of
domestic demand (460,000 tons) and far below the potential level of
production (670,000 tons).
28.       The sugar sector in Sudan is characterized by relatively high
consumption levels - in the neighborhood of 24 kg. per capita per annum, as
opposed to an Africa-wide average rate of about 15 kg. per capita. Demand
appears to have been growing at about 5 percent per annum, and is
concentrated heavily in the Khartoum region. The high demand has led to
large sugar imports in recent years, reaching 12 percent of total imports
by value in 1981/82. Unlike in other countries, sugar in the Sudan is
consumed mainly by household units, with only about 15 percent going to
industrial users. Although no reliable estimates of price elasticity are
available, it appears that the propensity to consume is severely restricted
by income, and the rate of growth in demand is thus expected to slow
somewhat in the coming years due to expected constraints on personal income
levels.
29.       The Government started domestic production in the early 1960s
with the development of two sugar estates at Guneid and New Halfa of 60,000
tons of sugar per year (tsy) capacity each, followed by the establishment
of two further estates at Sennar and Assalaya in the late 1970s of 110,000
tsy capacity each. In addition, a large joint sector sugar scheme at
Kenana jointly owned by private and public sector investors with a design
capacity of 330,000 tsy was completed in 1979. Between them these five
estates have the capacity to produce 670,000 tons of sugar annually.
Although the two established estates showed early promise in the 1960s,
production has fallen off steadily over the last five years. The two newer
public plants have never really been completed, and produce only a fraction
of their rated output, and the joint-venture project at Kenana has been
slow in getting started.
30.       The principal reasons for poor performance of the public sector
units have been:
- the low prices paid to producing units, leading to inability
to purchase essential inputs and maintain assets;
- insufficient supplies of irrigation water, and inadequate
provision of other cultivation inputs, coupled with the
utilization of inappropriate cane varieties;
- shortages of manpower and servicable equipment for cultivation
and harvesting;



- 10 -
-  lack of foreign exchange, contributing to shortages of fuel
and spare parts, and poor maintenance of agricultural
machinery and factory equipment;
- loss of skilled and experienced staff due to poor working
conditions;
- inadequate management, financial. and accounting systems;
-  impediments to factory operations at Sennar and Assalaya
caused by poor design and construction of factory foundations.
Some of these bottlenecks, such as the lack of foreign exchange, fuel
shortages, and the scarcity of skilled manpower, are nationwide in scope
and apply to all undertakings in the Sudan.  However, many of them can be
overcome by a combination of capital injections and revised institutional
arrangements.
Institutional Arrangements
31.       Responsibility for sugar policy and for sugar sector operations
in Sudan is divided among a number of ministries. Operation of the four
government-owned production units has been the responsibility of the
Ministry of Industry (MOI). The Ministry of Commerce, Cooperation and
Supply (MCCS) determines regional sugar consumption quotas, and the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MO)FEP) sets producer and
consumer prices, distribution margins, import; quantities, and provides
finance for the four sugar estates. MOFEP also controls sugar marketing
through the Public Corporation for Sugar Trading (PCST). The Ministry of
Agriculture and Irrigation (MOAI) is responsible for the operation and
maintenance of irrigation supply systems at the sugar estates and for
sugarcane research activities conducted by the Agricultural Research
Corporation (ARC).
32.       Until 1981 the four public sector sugar units were run by the
Sugar and Distilleries Corporation (SDC), a public body responsible to MOI
which provided such centralized services as procurement, training,
accounting, and budgetting. In an effort to decentralize the industry the
Corporation was dissolved in 1981 and authority was given for the formation
of four autonomous companies. These companies have now been established as
independent corporate entities. The intention is that each will operate as
a wholly self-contained corporation, with onLy sector policy issues such as
pricing and taxation being determined centrally.
Sugar Sector Recovery Strategy
33.       A recent Bank study found that the sugar industry in Sudan enjoys
a comparative advantage for export. Yet because of a hostile policy
environment and lack of finance, the domestic sugar industry is performing
far below capacity, resulting in the need for significant sugar imports.
Rehabilitation of the sugar industry therefore plays an important role in



- 11l -
the overall economic recovery program. There are three main aspects to the
sugar rehabilitation program: (i) a physical rehabilitation of machinery,
equipment, and infrastructure, (ii) a set of measures to ensure that
adequate and timely provision of production inputs takes place, and (iii) a
phased program of institutional and financial re-adjustments which will
establish proper production arrangements and incentives.
34.       Some progress has already been made in the revision of policy and
institutional arrangements. In a move designed to alleviate cashflow
problems facing the public sugar units, the ex-factory price of sugar was
raised in 1982, and again in 1983. In addition the Government has now
established the four units as independent companies.  Prices will be
revised annually to reflect import parity levels, and the individual
companies will be given progressively greater autonomy to make production
and marketing decisions (paras. 80 and 81). It is the Government's
objective that these companies be established on a commercial basis with
the ability to generate a reasonable return on investment.
Future Prospects
35.       Already, with limited injections of bilateral aid, there are some
signs of improvement, as yields at Sennar and Assalaya have risen
substantially over the last year and total output of the four plants has
increased by 75 percent from the low of the 1981/82 season. During their
early years. the two schemes at Guneid and New Halfa have demonstrated that
high yields are possible using the existing land and factory layouts, and
it is expected that, with the rehabilitation project, the industry will
operate productively and profitably. By the end of the project period,
production should be up to 316,000 tons of sugar per year compared to about
132,000 tons last year.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
36.       This project supports the Government's efforts to realize the
production potential of Sudan's large investment in sugar producing and
processing facilities. These facilities, which have been producing at only
a fraction of their potential capacity, are capable of saving substantial
amounts of foreign exchange now required to finance sugar imports. A
comprehensive feasibility study completed in February 1983 was prepared by
Tate and Lyle Technical Services Ltd. (U.K.) and was the basis for the
staff appraisal of the project. The project was appraised in October 1983
and the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4980-SU dated April 30, 1984) is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations with a GOS
team headed by Dr. A.E.E. Zaki, Acting Under-Secretary, Ministry of Finance
and Economic Planning were conducted during April 10 to 17, 1984.



- 12 -
Rationale for Bank Support
37.       The principal thrust of the Bank's strategy for Sudan is to
concentrate on improving the country's balance of payments situation
through rehabilitation of existing capital investments, support for key
infrastructure projects which represent botlenecks to increased output,
increasing Sudan's resource mobilization, an;d preparing the way for longer
term development activities. This project :Ls consistent with and
supportive of that strategy. It involves the rehabilitation of a major
capital investment which, when completed, wLll result in substantial
foreign exchange savings with a consequent beneficial effect on the
country's balance of payments. The project also is designed to bring about
a major improvement in the management and operations of the four sugar
estates involved in the project, leading to increased utilization and
efficiency of operations of the existing facilities. The participation of
IDA allows the Government access to the large amounts of capital requried
for rehabilitation, and facilitates the arrangement of cofinancing. The
complexity of the project also support:s the case for Bank involvement, as
the project requires technical and policy support as well as a number of
institutional and policy adjustmrents.
ProjectDesciption
38.       Over a five year period the project would rehabilitate the
Guneid, New Halfa, Sennar and Assalaya sugar estates so as to raise
sugarcane yields and the total quantity of sugar produced, thus saving the
country significant amounts of foreign exchange. The Project would also
strengthen institutional arrangements for dealing with the sector as a
whole and would improve the performance of the four companies.  It would
strengthen manpower, training, management and accounting systems and
support an intensified research effort. Tle project components are
described in the following sections.2/
39.       Cultivation Equipment (US$11.5 miLllion).  The project will
provide sufficient equipment and spares to allow for proper cultivation
operations, as well as for limited mechanized application of herbicides and
fertilizers as necessary. A total of 107 tractors will be provided, as
well as assorted agricultural machinery such as subsoilers, harrows,
ridgers, and cultivators,
40.       Transport and Harvesting Equipment (US$23.4 million).  In order
to improve the reliability of delivery of cane to the factories the fleet
of cane haulage tractors and trailers will be expanded. This covers the
rehabilitation of existing tractors and trailers, as well as the purchase
of new tractors, trailers, and a limited number of harvesters and loaders.
41.       Miscellaneous Agricultural Equipment and Vehicles (US$12.2
million). A variety of mobile machinery would be provided to facilitate
general farm operations and maintenance, including tractors, general
purpose trailers, and trucks. Assorled other machinery will be provided to
2/ All costs are in current dollars, inclusive of all contingencies.



- 13 -
carry out civil works and road maintenance. In addition, vehicles will be
provided to ensure the mobility of field staff, irrigators, and laborers.
42.       Field Workshop and Estate Buildings (US$6.7 million).  In order
to reduce equipment down-times a program of preventive maintenance will be
introduced, maintenance facilities upgraded, and on-the-job training
provided. Funds would be provided to purchase specialized workshop tools
and equipment. A new workshop building and stores would be constructed at
New Halfa and the existing workshops at the other three estates would be
renovated and expanded. Under the Management Assistance and Training
component (para. 54) internationally recruited staff would provide
assistance in rehabilitating existing machinery and on the job training
within the workshops.
43.       Irrigation Rehabilitation (US$11.8 million).  A number of steps
would be taken to improve irrigation methods and the efficiency of in-field
water distribution, including the installation of measuring flumes,
improvements to night storage structures, and the purchase of syphons and
canvas checks. New pumps and motors will be installed at Guneid, the
existing pump station at Sennar will be rehabilitated and a supply of
spares for pumps provided at Sennar and Assalaya. Pilot schemes would be
established to test the effectiveness of the proposed long-furrow
irrigation techniques, and engineering and design work for the expansion of
cane area at Sennar and Assalaya will be carried out based on the findings
of the pilot schemes.
44.       Power Supply (US$11.2 million).  Generators would be installed in
order to provide back-up power generation capacity to pump irrigation water
during periods when power is not available from the national grid, thus
removing a major constraint on cane yields. The proposed project would
provide for two 1 mw diesel generators at Guneid, for two 1.25 mw diesel
generators at Sennar and for a 6.5 mw turbo-alternator at the factory at
Assalaya.
45.       Factory Process Rehabilitation (US$32.6 million).  The
Buckau-Wolfe program (US$15.3 million) is a package of essential
replacements for worn machinery at Guneid and New Halfa, which is being
financed by KfW and provided by Buckau-Wolfe of the Federal Republic of
Germany. The package consists primarily of boiler parts and materials,
mill spares, and filters and crystallizers. To supplement the Buckau-Wolfe
program the proposed project would provide for additional factory equipment
and instruments required at Guneid and New Halfa as well as for a stock of
spare parts.
46.       A program of factory process rehabilitation will be undertaken at
Sennar and Assalaya which will concentrate on improvements to cane feed,
steam systems, crystallizers, and instruments and controls. In addition,
stocks of spares will be provided. To assist with implementation the
proposed project would finance a deputy factory manager, a maintenance
engineer, a chemical technologist, an electrical technician, and a sugar
instrumentation engineer.



- 14 -
47.       Bagasse Stores (US$3.2 million).  The project would provide for
the installation of a partially mechanized bagasse reclaim system at each
of the four factories, in order to improve efficiency of bagasse handling.
48.       Factory Structure (US$8.5 million),  Steps would be taken to
rectify the ground-heave problem which has resulted in shifting foundations
at Sennar and Assalaya, and the factory roofs would be re-sheeted at Guneid
and New Halfa. In addition the project would include a program of minor
works to upgrade cane-yards, flooring, and factory ventilation.
49.       Electricity and Communications (US$3.1 million).  Internal
communications would be improved by the prov:Lsion of telephone systems and              q
mobile radios. This will facilitate area agricultural operations,
irrigation control, and the in-field maintenance of machinery. Microwave
systems would be instal:Led at Guneid, New HaLfa, and Assalaya in order to
provide a link to the national telephone system. Funds would also be
provided under the proposed project to improve electrical distribution
within the estates.
50.       Housing and Services (US$9.3 million).  Housing facilities would
be upgraded at all four estates, since the lack of adequate housing has
made it difficult to retain higher level staff, and the absence of
accommodation for seasonal laborers has been one of the reasons the
companies cannot attract cane-cutters.  Existing housing will be renovated,
and 96 new houses will be constructed.  Additional barracks and messes will
be constructed and a program undertakerL to provide permanent round huts for
seasonal workers.
51.       Social Infrastructure (US$3.1 million).  Under the proposed
project, health and education facilities would be improved at the sugar
estates as a means of attracting and retaining staff. Health centers
would be renovated and provided with new equipment, and a new health center
constructed at Assalaya. Additional classrooms would be built and equipped
to cater for the school-aged populationi of the estates through 1990, and a
market area would be constructed at each estate to improve accessability to
foodstuffs for laborers.
52.       Maintenance Equipment (,US$0.4 million).  Funds would be allocated
to each estate for the purchase of specialized tools and equipment to
improve building maintenance capabilities.
53.       Office and Accounting Equipment (US$3.7 million).  Funds would be
allocated to each company for the acquLsition of new accounting systems and
office equipment.
54.       Technical and Management Services (US$22.4 million).  Technical
assistance personnel to be provided for factory and workshop operations are
described separately above (paras. 42, 45). These personnel would form
part of an internationally-recruited management team to be appointed at
each estate. The objective of these teams would be to provide management
support and training during the transition to commercial operations. In
addition to technical personnel, the management teams would consist of a



-15 -
Deputy Managing Director (under the supervision of a Sudanese Managing
Director), a Business Administration Manager, Senior Training Officer,
Cost-Controller, and two accountants. These have been identified as the
critical areas in which assistance is required in the development of
management systems and personnel. The arrangements for management
assistance are described more fully in para. 74.
55.       Project Implementation Team (US$4.8 million). The existing Sugar
Project Implementation Cell within the Ministry of Industry will be
responsible for project implementation (see para. 72). Under the Project
funding would be provided for a team of technical advisors to the Cell,
along with limited supporting services and facilities. (A team of five
advisors has already been established to aid in project preparation during
1983/84 under a Project Preparation Facility).
56.       Training (US$5.9 million).  A combination of technical assistance
training personnel and external courses would be used to provide
specialized upgrading courses for existing skilled and semi-skilled
personnel, and to provide training for trainers. In addition, buildings at
the Sennar training center would be rehabilitated, and additional training
equipment purchased. The training component has been prepared by UNIDO,
and UNIDO or a qualified consulting firm would manage implementation of the
training program by providing five training specialists for a period of
five years to design and conduct courses.
57.      Sugarcane Research (US$1.2 million).  Under the project, sugarcane
research would be stepped up at the Guneid Research Center in a drive to
find more productive cane varieties suitable to conditions in the Sudan.
In addition, a program of research activities would be instituted at the
estate level to undertake field trials on varieties, smut control,
herbicides, and fertilizer application. It will be necessary to replace
almost all of the field agricultural machinery at the Research Station, as
well as to purchase new laboratory equipment. Funds will be provided under
the project for specialized technical assistance in support of the research
program.
Project Costs
58.       Total project cost is US$181 million (LSd 339 million) with a
foreign exchange component of US$149 million (LSd 278 million), or 82
percent.  No taxes or duties are included in the project costs, as new
companies are excluded from all taxes during the first five years of
operations. All costs are project investment costs, with incremental
operating costs being borne by the sugar companies and GOS. Baseline
project costs (excluding physical and price contingencies) are US$146.4
million (LSd 192.6 million). Estimated costs are summarized in the Summary
of Project Costs at the front of this Report.
59.       The cost estimates are based on June 1982 figures updated to
January 1984 baseline price levels. Physical contingencies rates on
equipment, vehicles and structures are 10 percent, except for some local



- 16 -
civil works which are estimated using a 20 physical contingency rate.
Overall, physical contingencies are 7.8 percent of total project costs and
price contingencies are 11.4 percent of total project costs. Price
contingencies have been calculated on the following basis: (i) inflation
in Sudan is assumed to decline from 30 percent in 1983/84 to 15 percent by
1987/88, with costs adjusted by estimated exchange rate changes, and (ii)
international price increases are based on the Bank's standard
international inflation forecast.
60.       A PPF of US$1.0 million has been provided to cover the costs of a
team of five technical advisors to the Sugar Project Implementation Cell.
This team, now in place, is assisting with final project preparation.
Funds are also provided under the PPF for the recruitment of technical
personnel for short term assignments on particular specialized project
preparation issues.
Proposed Financing
61.       Project costs would be financed in the following amounts and
proportions:
Tab:Le 5
Project Financing Plan
(US$ millions includilng all contingencies)
Local       Foreign
Currency    Exchange       Total    Percent of
Costs        Costs        Costs    Total Project
1.  IDA Credit                -           60.0          60.0          33.1
2.  Other Cofinanciers
(a) Saudi Fund            -           23.5          23.5          13.0
(b) Arab Fund             -           47.2          47.2          26.0
(c) Germany (KfW)         -           17.3          17.3           9.5
3.  Government of Sudan    32.5            0.8          33.3          18.4
and sugar companies
Total Project Cost          32.5         148.3         181.3         100
62.       The IDA credit would finance, jointly with the Government and the
sugar companies, the following components: general agricultural and
construction equipment at all four estates; vehicles at Guneid and New
Halfa; harvesting and transport equipment at: Sennar; irrigation field works
at Sennar and Assalaya;infrastructure and housing; training; technical and
management services; and research. The other components would be financed
by co-financiers, jointly with the Governmenit and the sugar companies, as
follows: at Guneid and New Halfa the Saudi Fund would finance harvesting
and transport equipment; irrigation works; and the programs of additional
equipment requirements and factory stock spares.The Arab Fund would finance
all remaining agricultural machinery; irrigation power supply, pumps and
spares at Sennar and Assalaya; agricultural workshops at Sennar and
Assalaya; and all factory works except the bagasse stores at Sennar and



- 17 -
Assalaya. The Federal Republic of Germany would finance the programs of
factory replacement parts supplied by Buckau-Wolf, along with workshop
improvements at Guneid and New Haifa.
Credit Terms and Onlending Arrangements
63.       The proposed IDA credit would be on standard terms to the
Government.  US$37.2 million of the IDA credit would be passed on as
Government equity in the sugar companies, to the MOI for operation of the
Sennar Training Center and SPIC, and to ARC (through MOI) for research
operations.  GOS, which would bear the foreign exchange risk, would onlend
the balance of US$22.8 million of the IDA credit to the sugar companies.
Onlending would be for not more than 12 years at 16 percent interest. The
proposed rate reflects some movement towards the goal of positive real
interest rates and has to be viewed against the current inflation rate of
25-30 percent, which is, however, estimated to come down to about 15
percent by 1987/88. The execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreements acceptable
to IDA with the sugar companies would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness (Section 6.01(a), Development Credit Agreement). Financial
projections indicate that the sugar companies could generate significant
cash surpluses during the project, provided producer prices are adjusted
sufficiently. The Subsidiary Loan Agreements provide for possible earlier
repayment of Government loans and for the possibility of the sugar
companies financing some of the local currency portion of project costs
each year, based on a determination made during review of the Annual Work
Program, in the event that the cash flows exceed the operational needs of
the companies.
64.       The co-financing from the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW) of
$17.3 million equivalent has been provided to the Government on a grant
basis, and to the sugar companies as equity contributions. Arab Fund
resources have been made available to the Government at 4 percent interest
with 20 year repayment including a 5 year grace period, and would be onlent
to the sugar companies at 8 percent interest with 12 year repayment
including a 5 year grace period. The Saudi Fund financing is estimated to
be on the same basis as the Arab Fund. Evidence satisfactory to IDA that
all conditions precedent to the disbursement of funds of not less than
US$64.5 million equivalent from such cofinanciers would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(b), Development Credit Agreement), and
notification that all conditions precedent for the remaining $23.5 million
equivalent have been fulfilled is required by December 31, 1984
(Section 5.01(f), Development Credit Agreement). In fact, arrangements for
co-financing are well advanced. Agreements have been signed with the Arab
Fund and KfW, while the Saudi Fund appraised the project in conjunction
with IDA and expects to complete project processing by July 1984.
Procurement 4/
65.       Goods.  Vehicles, machinery, equipment and spares totalling
approximately US$26.9 million would be grouped into appropriate bidding
4/ These procurement procedures will apply to all items financed under the
IDA credit; for components financed by other agencies, the procurement
procedures of the concerned agency would apply.



- 18 -
packages of US$200,000 or more and procured by ICB in accordance with Bank
guidelines (July 1980 edition) for works and goods. Qualifying domestic
manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent
or the import duty, whichever is lower. Miscellaneous items in packages of
less than US$200,000 but totalling no more than US$4 million would be
procured under local competitive procedures which are acceptable to IDA.
For contracts under US$20,000, but totalling no more than US$500,000, local
shopping or purchasing off-the-shelf after obtaining at least three
quotations would be used.  In total, ICE wouldi account for about 90 percent
by value of the purchases of goods.
66.       Works.  Civil works construction of housing at three of the four
estates, totalling approximately US$3.7 million would be procured by ICB
procedures in accordance with IDA guidelines. The civil works for village
accommodation for the rehabilitation of existing houses, and for other
minor works, amounting to approximately US$2.0 million, because of the
small unit cost and the existence of company units already engaged in this
work, would be by force account. In total, ICB would account for about 65
percent by value of the procurement of civil works.
67.       Contract Review.  All bidding packages for works and goods
estimated to cost over US$0.5 million equivalent would be made subject to
prior IDA review of procurement documentation. This would result in a
coverage of about 75 percent of the total estimated value of the
contracts. The balance of contracts would be subject to random post review
by IDA after contract award.
68.       Consultants. The Consultants arnd Management Services financed
under the credit would be hired in accordance with the Bank Group
guidelines. They would have terms of reference, qualifications and terms
and conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.03, Development
Credit Agreement and Section 2.02, Project Agreements).
Disbursement
69.       The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed over six years
against the following categories of expenditures: (a) For machinery,
equipment, and vehicles; (i) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
directly imported goods; (ii) 100 percent of the ex-factory cost of locally
manufactured goods; and (iii) 60 percent of the costs of items procured
through local shipping or local bidding; (b) For civil works; (i) 100
percent of the foreign expenditure and 50 perce!nt of local expenditures for
civil works carried out under contracts; and (ii) 50 percent of civil works
carried out under force account; and (c) For cc,nsultants and support
services, 100 percent of total cost. Disbursement against all items would
be based on full documentation, except for force account contracts of less
than $10,000 value, which would require only a Statement of Expenditure.
The disbursement profiles for all Sudanese projects show that full
disbursement has taken an average of nine years with about 82 percent being



- 19 -
disbursed over the first six years. The shorter disbursement period
assumed for the proposed project is justified by the fact that the majority
of project funds will be spent on the procurement of machinery and
equipment for existing operations. In addition, a shorter than average
disbursement period may be expected since significant amounts of
pre-implementation preparation have already been undertaken under the PPF,
and because co-financing arrangements are well advanced, with some
disbursements scheduled to take place this year.
Project Implementation
70.       An existing unit within the Ministry of Industry deals with the
industry and also coordinates research and training. The GOS proposes to
strengthen this unit by upgrading it as a Sudan Sugar Board (SSB). The
Board would be located in the Ministry of Industry, absorbing both the
existing sugar sector unit and the Sugar Project Implementation Cell
(SPIC). The SSB is expected to be established and its Executive Director
and Secretary with experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA
appointed before June 5, 1984. The Sudan Sugar Board would review and
direct Government policy on such matters as production and development
plans, pricing, imports and exports, and manpower demand and training
requirements. The GOS would also establish a Sugar Consultative Group
(SCG), comprising representatives of the sugar companies, MOI, MOFEP, MOAI
and ARC which would be the forum through which the Government consults with
the industry on national sugar policy issues. The Sugar Consultative Group
would be serviced by the Sudan Sugar Board staff.
71.       Ownership of the pumping stations and major canals at the sugar
estates would be transferred from the Ministry of Agriculture and
Irrigation (MOAI) to the sugar companies no later than July 1, 1985
(Section 3.07 Development Credit Agreement). MOAI would gradually transfer
actual operations to the sugar companies as the companies develop staff
capable of operating the irrigation system, with the transfer to be
completed by July 1, 1987. The transfer would be monitored through the
Annual Work Programs (para. 76). MOAI would also supervise ARC which would
be responsible for sugarcane research in the country.
72.       Sugar Project Implementation Cell (SPIC).  SPIC has been
strengthened with the provision of five internationally recruited technical
advisors funded under a PPF from IDA. The initial role of these advisors
is to assist in project preparation, but they would be retained to assist
with project implementation. The advisors consist of experts in the fields
of sugar technology, agricultural engineering, agronomy, financial
management, and organization and policy. SPIC, supported by its team of
advisors, would: render policy advice in relation to the rehabilitation
program and supervise project implementation; monitor the physical and
financial progress of the sugar companies in attaining project targets;
provide technical support to the sugar companies for project activities,
and recruit and supervise all technical services financed by the project;
prepare for the companies accounting, management, and maintenance systems;
advise on the annual values which would be used for costing and pricing;



- 20 -
help establish an appropriate personnel structure for each autonomous
company; and along with the Project Procurement Committee of the Ministry
of Finance and Economic Planning would handle project procurement under
colloborative arrangements with thie four sugar companies, acceptable to IDA
(Sections 2.02 and 2.03, Draft Project Akgreements).
73.       The Sugar Companies.  The four schemes have been established as
autonomous companies under the 1925 Companies Ordinance, each with its own
Board of Directors. Operational authority is delegated to the Managing
Director, who will be supported by four departmental managers. The
objective of the companies will be to become financially independent
entities operating on a commercia:L basis, making a reasonable return on
investment.  The specific respons:ibilitLes of the companies with respect to
project implementation would be: (i) installation and operation of
machinery and equipment, and organization of capital works under the
project; (ii) implementation of revised compensation packages, management,
cost accounting, and preventive maintenance systems; (iii) introduction of
new cultivation and irrigation practices, and of new harvesting and
transport systems; (iv) operation of in--field research activities; and, (v)
on the job training for various ciategories of staff.  The companies would
be strengthened by technical and rmanagement services by internationally
recruited firms (Section 2.02, Project Agreements).
74.       Management Assistance and Tra:Lning.  Teams would be appointed at
each company to assist in the transitioni to commercial operations (para.
54). The size of the management assistance and training teams will be
progressively reduced over the life of the project as more of the new
functions are assumed by existing Sudanese managers. The management teams
will be selected competitively from a short-list of pre-qualified firms,
and their terms of reference and conditions of renumeration acceptable to
IDA will be such that: (i) they will perform as a team along with Sudanese
managers; (ii)  renumeration will be based on performance against agreed
production and cost-reduction targets; End (iii) they will be responsible
for management training and the preparation of Sudanese counterparts. To
ensure that training takes place, the terms of management assistance and
training contracts will be such that the number of expatriates is reduced
according to an agreed annual schedule.
75.       Monitoring, Evaluation, and Reporting. SPIC, assisted by the team
of technical advisors, would have overall responsibility for monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting. Monitoring aLnd evaluation would be carried out
principally through the Annual Work Program mechanism and the proposed
mid-term review described below. In addLition, under the project there will
be a review of the performance of each company every year by an independent
management consultant acceptable to IDA and an exchange of views with IDA
no later than September 30 each year on remedial measures proposed by such
consultant (Section 3.09, Development Credit Agreement and Section 3.04,
Project Agreements). SPIC will furnish IDA with quarterly progress reports
in a format satisfactory to IDA. It would also prepare the Project
Completion Report no later than six months after completion of the project
(Section 3.05(e), Development Credit Agreement).



- 21 -
76.       Annual Work Program and Mid-Term Review.  The Annual Work Program
(AWP) would be a key project and budget implementat-ion mechanism. It would
include a detailed plan for all project activities in the coming year. The
AWPs would enable GOS to review progress, scrutinize forthcoming programs
and provide the necessary budgetary support needed for the priject and
would have to be acceptable to IDA (Section 3.02, Development Credit
Agreement). While the work program for the first year has been largely
worked out already, the AWP document itself will no- be required until
October 30, 1984 in order to give the Government time to get full agreement
on the program from all of the interested entities. Among the principal
issues to be addressed in the AWP reviews would be e-he level of sugar
prices, the physical, financial and management performance of the four
companies, and institutional and manpower developmetnt aspects. A project
mid-term review will be conducted jointly by GOS an-' IDA no later than
December 31, 1986 (Section 3.05(d), Development Creqit Agreement). The
purpose of this review will be to assess performance under the project and
to resolve any technical and institutional issues which may arise during
the implementation period.
77.       Audits.  The four sugar companies would maintain their accounting
systems in accordance with sound and generally recognized accounting
principles and practices acceptable to IDA and would have their accounts
audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA (Section 4.02,
Project Agreements). The inlitial balance sheets for each of the companies
acceptable to IDA would be furnished no later than March 31, 1985 (Section
4.02, Project Agreements). Agreement on the accounting principles to be
followed has already been reached, including depreciation to be set up on
the basis of replacement value. Also, the feasibility study (para. 36)
included a review of the financial situation of each company and an
evaluation of its current worth. The companies and other project entities
would provide IDA with unaudited financial statements within six months of
the close of each company's fiscal year and an independent auditor's
opinion and report satisfactory to IDA on such statements would be provided
within nine months of the close of each fiscal year (Section 4.01,
Development Credit Agreement and Section 4.02, Project Agreements). ARC at
Guneid and the MOI at Khartoum would maintain separate Project accounts
covering the research, training and project implementation components
respectively and would be audited by the Auditor-General. The Government
will arrange for audit of these accounts to be completed by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA, in the event that the Auditor General reports
that he cannot complete such audit within three months of receipt of
accounts.
Environmental Impact
78.       The principal environmental consideration is the disposal of
excess quantities of molasses produced under the project. Current plans
envisage the export of all molasses through the project period. Terminal
facilities at Port Sudan are being expanded under a separate IDA ports
project and will handle the projected flow. In the longer run
the construction of an ethanol plant, or the development of feed-stock



- 22 -
processing may prove to be an economically attractive alternative for the
disposal of excess molasses. Potential in these areas would be assessed
during the mid-term review.
Pricing and Market:ing
79.        At present, both producer and consuimer prices for sugar are set
administratively without referernce to either cost or efficiency criteria.
Consumer prices are roughly at import parity levels while producer prices
are well below such levels. The Government has used the differential
between producer and consumer prices as a means of generating revenue by in
effect introducing a very high incidence of taxation on producers. Thne
producer price actually received by the sugar factories for the 1983/84
season will be approximately LSd 260/ton, wh:Ilea the average cost of
production is estimated at LSd 467/ton. The present price mechanism wculd
thus prevent the companies from generating sufficient revenues to operate
viably.
80.        Recognizing these concerns, the Government has accepted the
principle of import parity pricing for setting the producer price for sugar
(Section 3.10(a), Development Credit Agreemernt). The price adopted will be
based on the six year moving average of the daily international5/ price,
adjusted for inflation, using the exchange rate applicable to the cost of
recurrent inputs for the industry. Adjustments of this price will be
considered in the light of the cost of production for an efficient producer
and the financial viability of the companies, bearing in mind excise duties
on sugar. The acceptability to IDA of the level of producer prices for
1984/85 based on these principles would be a condition of project
effectiveness (Section 6.01(c), Development Credit Agreement). Thereafter,
producer prices would be announced annually after consultation with the
Sugar Consultative Group and IDA (Section 3.10(b), Development Credit
Agreement), based on the above principles. Adoption of such prices would
fully cover the cost of production of the sugar companies and would require
only moderate increases in consumer prices oi sugar. The Government has
confirmed its policy of eliminating consumer subsidies, and hopes to move
to market determined prices for sugar once the supply situation permits.
81.        The purchase and marketing of sugar in Sudan was carried out as a
Government monopoly under the Public Corporation for Sugar Trading (PCST).
The PCST purchased the entire output of the four public-sector estates and
distributed it to a network of regional storage depots. The GOS has taken
a decision effective July 1, 1984 to permit the respective sugar companies
to market their output direct to wholesale and other distributors on
payment of the full producer price.
Financial Result:s
82.       At present operating costs of the sugar companies are met
partially by budgetary subventions from the GOS, partially by accummulating
overdrafts, and to a limited extent by receipts from sugar sales. Since
the ex-factory producer price is set well beLow the cost of production, the
5/ The international price used will be the London daily price for raws,
corrected by the addition of a white sugar premium.



- 23 -
companies have incurred substantial annual losses. The outstanding debt to
the GOS would be capitalized to the extent that it relates to past purchase
of assets and written off to the extent that such debt has been incurred as
a result of operating losses. Further capital injections would be
structured in such a way as to result in a one-to-one debt-equity ratio for
each company (Section 4.03, Project Agreements) and a debt service ratio of
1.5 : 1 would be maintained (Section 4.04, Project Agreements).
Depreciation lbased on replacement value will be incorporated in the
companies' accounts (Section 4.02(a), Project Agreements).
83.       With the revision of producer prices to reflect import parity
levels, the adoption of depreciation based on replacement value, and the
revised structure of the capital base of the companies provided for in the
project, the firms would be able to cover costs fully, generate sufficient
cash to retire debts on schedule and to maintain assets. When calculated
on this basis, the rates of return on fixed assets for the four companies
range from 11.6 percent at Guneid to 23.1 percent at Sennar while the
forecasted net income (after taxes) for 1989/90 range from LSd 3.8 million
for Guneid to LSd 14.0 million for Sennar. Tenant incomes at Guneid (the
other three companies have estates for cane) are projected to rise from LSd
400 in 1983/84 to about LSd 950 (1983 prices) in 1989/90. This would be
secured through the introduction of the individual account system for
tenants on the basis of its recent successful adoption in the neighboring
Gezira scheme, with IDA support, not later than June 30, 1985 (Section
2.09, Guneid Project Agreement).
Government Cash Flows
84.       Over the first ten years of the project, Government incremental
cash inflows are estimated to exceed outflows by LSd 688 6/ million, or an
average of LSd 69 million per year. Government inflows would consist of
excise duty, corporate taxes, and dividends paid by the companies, as well
as interest and principal repayments on onlent funds, and the concessional
capital finances provided by international and bilateral agencies.
Government outflows would consist of repayment and debt service on the
concessional loans, equity injections and funds onlent to the companies,
and budgetary capital transfers to MOI, MOAI, and ARC. In addition, the
Government would avoid the accumulation of an estimated LSd 116.5 million
in further overdrafts at the Bank of Sudan by placing the companies on a
sound financial footing.
Access to Foreign Exchange and Local Currency
85.       The annual requirement of funds would be estimated through the
Annual Work Program (para. 76) mechanism. The four companies, now that
they are registered under the 1925 Companies Ordinance, have access to
foreign exchange in the open market, without having to depend wholly on the
Government for allocation at the official exchange rate. Also, under the
pricing principles introduced by the project they will have sufficient
local currency to purchase foreign exchange at the open market rates.
6/ in current LSd.



- 24 -
Nevertheless, the Government will be required to assure that the companies
will continue to have access to essential imported recurrent inputs
including fuel during the entire project implementation period (Section
3.08, Development Credit Agreement). The Government has also agreed to
ensure that sufficient local currency and foreign exchange is provided for
the operating costs of MOI, MOAI and ARC in support of the project.
Expected Outputs
86.       Total area under command at the fcur schemes would not be
expanded under the project, although the availability of more cultivation
machinery and of more reliable water supply would allow additional existing
:Land to be planted and harvested.  Yields would increase substantially from
a current average of 24.5 tons/fieddan to 36.4 tons/feddan by 1988/89,
principally because of the improved supply cf inputs, especially of
irrigation water, and to a lesser extent because of improved cultivation
practices.
87.       As a result of increased cane area and improved yields, total
sugarcane production will double. Final output of sugar increases even
more as average processing recovery rates climb from 9 percent to 10
percent, as a result of the rehabilitation cf factory equipment. Total
sugar output of the four schemes is forecast, to increase by 140 percent
under the project, from 131,900 tons in 1982/83 to 316,730 tons in 1988/89.
Expected Benefits
88.       The project would generate net foreign exchange savings of
approximately US$67 million per year after completion (1989 constant
prices). Project activities could thus be expected to improve the balance
of payments situation substantially. The project will also result in a net
resource saving to the country as it lowers the average cost of production
of domestically produced sugar by increasing factory output to near
capacity levels.
89.       Expansion of production at the four public sector sugar estates
would result in the creation of an estimated 1,150 additional jobs in
central Sudan, in addition there will be a need for approximately 5,320
cane-cutters on a seasonal basis, thus providing an an important
income-earning opportunity for unskilled migrants from the poorer southern
and western areas of the country. Rehabilil:ation and expansion of
production under the project at Guneid would also directly benefit the
2,365 tenant farmers on the sugar estate there.
90.       Improved living conditions for 11,000 migrant cane cutters and
other seasonal labor would result from the provision of improved housing,
water supply, and sanitation services to laborers' villages under the
project. The social welfare of over 100,000 residents of the sugar estates
would be improved by the expansion of housing, health, and education
services.



- 25 -
91.       The economic rate of return for the project is 40 percent while
that for individual companies range from 36 percent for Guneid to 65
percent for Sennar. This is significantly above the opportunity cost of
capital in Sudan which is currently estimated to be about 12.5 percent.
The high economic rate of return reflects the very large Ta, ginal benefits
to be gained from rehabilitation which is a function of the large amount of
sunk capital at the four sugar schemes.
Project Risks
92.       The project is susceptible to a number of financial and
organizational risks. Any of the following could significantly erode
potential project benefits: (i) failure to adjust sugar prices
sufficiently; (ii) failure to allow the companies sufficient autonomy to
release staff or to offer adequate compensation conditions; (iii)
insufficient estate-level management capability; and (iv) failure to
implement effective preventive maintenance programs.
93.       Physical risks are less of a threat to the project.  However, the
new smut-resistant varieties may not prove economically viable under
Sudanese conditions, and the performance of existing varieties may decline
further, which would reduce yields in the longer run. The estates may
still face a sporadic supply of labor for cane-cutting, and this could also
have adverse effects on output. A final physical risk relates to the
ground-heave problem at Sennar and Assalaya (para. 48), although technical
studies indicate that with proper design this problem can be rectified.
As a further safeguard, completion of detailed design by consultants
acceptable to IDA for such rectification is included as a dated covenant
(Section 3.11, Development Credit Agreement).
94.       Sensitivity analysis shows that the project would still be
economically viable if costs rose by 93 percent or benefits dropped by
48 percent. The project has been designed in such a way as to address the
potential risks. Firm commitments have been received from the Government
on the revision of prices, access to foreign exchange and the guarantee of
autonomy for the companies. Ample technical personnel are provided to
assist with the development of accounting, managerial and maintenance
systems, and to train local managers and technicians in their use.
Conditions are being improved for cane-cutters, and funds provided to
improve labor mobilization. The enhanced research program will reduce the
risk of unsuitable cane varieties being introduced, and rectification of
the ground-heave problem at Sennar and Assalaya is included in the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
95.       The Draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan and Lne Association, the Draft Project Agreements
between each of the companies and the Association, and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Associatioii, are being distributed separately to the



- 26 -
Executive Durectors. Special conditions of effectiveness of the Draft
Development Credit Agreement would be: a) execution of Subsidiary Loan
Agreements, acceptable to IDA, governing the onlending of project funds to
the sugar companies, b) evidence satisfactory to IDA that all conditions
precedent to the disbursement of at least US$64.5 million of funds from
external donors for the project, and c) announcement of a producer price
for 1984/85 satisfactory to IDA.
96.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - Recommendation
97.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 11, 1984



- 27 -
ANNEX I
T A d L E  3A                                            PAGE I
SUDAN                     - SOCIAL INUICATOaS UArA SiiEET
SUDAN                                     REFCRLNCL GROUPS (WEIGIITED AVERAGES) /a
ilOST                        (NOST R,cENT ESiLAATL  /b
19 7OL/b  R.CE.4T   b          L'i I';CUHE              :411)OLE 1;G0IC
19 6.        19 7 L   ESTIMAT-         AFRILA S. OJF SAH,ARA      AFRICA S. ut SAA.AKA
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. I4)
TOTAL                                  2505.8       2505.3       2505.8
AGRICULTURAL                            671.8        677.0        684.2
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                       150.0        190.0         380.0               2S4.6                       1147.9
ENERGY C(NSUKPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMIS OF COAL EqUIVALENT)          58.U        170.0        101.0                 79.8                       724.2
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,IID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   11228.0          13849.0      19242.0
URBAi POPULATION (>i OF TOTAL)           1U.3         16.4         25.7                19.5                         28.5
POPULATION l':lGECTlONS
POPULATION 1:; YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                  33.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                                    111.8
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHIED                                   2135
POPULATUON DENSITY
PtR 51. LC.                           4.5           5.5          7.5                29.5                         56.5
PER SQ. KLM. AGRI. LAND                16.7         20.5         27.3                94.1                        131.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (7)
0-14 YRS                             43.7          43.7         44.2                45.0                         45.9
15-64 YRS                             53.2          53.4         53.0                52.1                         51.2
65 AiD ABOVE                            3.1          2.9          2.8                 2.9                          2.8
POPULATION GROWTtt RATE (Z)
TOTAL                                   2.0          2.1          3.0                 2.8                          2.8
DR.AlN                                  6.9          6.7          7.1                 6.2                          5.3
CRUDE BLiLTH RATE (PER THOUS)            46.5         46.7         46.o                47.9                         47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TdOUS)             24.5         22.1         18.4                19.2                         15.2
CROSS REPllODUCTION RATE                  3.3          3.3           3.3                3.2                           3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THLOUS)
USERS (Z OF HARRIED WOMEN)               ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
liDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-7L=100)                           92.0         100.0        104.0                87.8                         95.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Y OF REQUIREMENTS)          83.0          91.0        101.0                88.0                         97.1
PROTEINS (GRAHS PER DAY)              65.0          66.0         69.0                51.2                         56.0
OF WtLICt ANLiIAL AND PULSE          24.0          22.0         22.0/c              18.1                         17.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE              40.1         32.4         20.8                25.7                         23.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)            39.6         41.8         46.6                47.4                         51.9
INFANT MORI. HtATE (PER THOUS)          168.0        150.4        121.d               126.5                        117.o
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                    ..         19.0         46.0/d              24.7                         25.4
L'LAi                                    ..         61.0         49.O7d              56.8                         70.5
RURAL                                    ..         13.0         45.6/d              16.3                         12.3
ACCESS TO ERCRLTA DLSPOSAL
(7 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..         16.0         22.0/e              28.1
URBAN                                                 *'           *-                65.7
RURAL                                    ..           ..           ..                21.9
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             33420.0       14060.0       8800.0             27420.6                      12181.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON               3030.0/f    1720.0         1410.0              3456.2                       2292.0
A^                        POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                98O.0O/       920.0/g    1010.0/c             1183.2                       1075.4
URBAN                                130.OTh..    190.0         450.07E             380.6                        402.3
RURAL                               4400.0/f,g  512D.0/g    1760.D/c               3177.5                       3926.7
ADMISSIONS PE't HOSPITAL BED               ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HDUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    ..          5.1
URBAN                                   ..           5.7/h
RURAL                                    ..           ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..          2.5/h
RURAL                                    ..           ..
ACCESS TO El.CT. 'T OF DWELLINGS)
rOTAL                                   ..            ..
URBAN                                              26.4/h          ..                  .
RURAL                                                                                   .                           . 



- 28 -
ANNEX I
TABLE   3A A                                                 AGL
SL'JAN                     - SOCIAL INDICAToRs DAA SlEET
SUJANi                                      REPERENCE GROUPS (WrECdtGED AVERAGES) /a
MNUST                        (MuST RErCiNTr 1s1lsAMA) /b
REGENr  /             1-0,   U INCOME           IIIUOt ENCOM
I997 1Y7L/-'  LSI'L\TriI-                AFRICA S. OF SAHARA         AFRICA S. OL' SAdARA
EDUCATION
AD JLB    LEiKLLNEE.i  RAtION
PCIAEL       tOtAL rA                   25. 0         3Oo.U         51.0                 63.9                          97.2
[ALE                       35.U          4e.U          6u.G                 73.6                        103.1
r'E:LALI                    [4.u         29.0          43.0                 51.6                          68.5
3.aU;.DARY:  OCAL..                       3.u          7.u          16.3                 12.5                          17.2
MLALI                        5.0          10.3         2i.0                 16.7                          E3.5
FEMALE                       1.u          4. u         1.G                   3.l                          14.2
VUCAILUNAL  (N OL SECuN'DARY)               3.4           1.4/i         4.0/1, j            7.3                            5.2
IUPIL-EACAL,1R KATIO
FR1 IAAY                                41.3          47.C0         34.0                 46. 4                         42.9
SECONDARY                               2J.u          1 7.u         20.0                 25.1                          23.7
ADULT LITElRAKCY RATE (.)                 13.1          14.7/h        32.0                 36.5                          37.1
CONUMUPTION
PASSENGER CARS/TIOUSAND POP                 1.4           2.0            ..                 3.3                          18.8
RADIO RRCUIVERS/TIIOUSAND POP              17.0/k       80.4         71.2                 45.3                          97.8
.V RECEIVRS/IWOUSAND POP                   0.87         3.2           5.6                  2.2                          18.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTUREST'C) CIRCULATION
P.1 T-iOUSA1i  POPULATION                 4.4            ..           1.0                  4.7                          18.2
CINEMA ANNElAL AVIENDANCE/CAPiIA           0.9             *           0.6                  1.0                           U.6
LABOR FORCE
TrTAL LABOR FORCE (rtOLS)               3722.0        45,44.0 U     5086.0
fESALE (PERCE.f'T)                       9.6          LO.2          10.9                 34.5                          36.1
A,ERICLrURE (PERCENT)                   86.0          d2.U          72.0                 76.9                          56.S
10L)STiRY (PERCENT)                      6.0           8.1U         10.0                  9.L                          17.5
FAK'RIL;[PAIrLO .A iE (vERCENTc )
rUTAL                                   33.2          32.c          31.6                40.9                           37.0
MALE                                    53.3          58.2          55.6                 53.0                          47.1
FELMALr                                  6.4           6.o           7.0                 28.9                          27.0
rGUNUMIC DEPENDENCY KA'rlU                  1.4           1.4          1.5                  1.2                           1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENU 01 PRIVATrE INCOME
RKCr IVED BY
iiGREST 5/ OF hlUSErOLDS                2U.9/l,m        ..            ..                   . 
HlG.EST 207 OF ROUSENOLDS               50.1/1,o      49.2/n          ..                   . 
LOWEST 207 OF HOUSEHOLDS                 5.D/I m       5.17.
LOWEST 40/, OF .IOUSEIIOLDS             13.9          14.37W          ..                   *-
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSULUTE PUVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                      ..           ..         137.0/o             165.9                         534.2
RURAL                                      ..           ..          80.0/e               B7.4                        255.9
ESTLIMATEiO REI.ATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US0 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                      ..           . .        115.0/o             100.8                         491.5
RURAL                                      ..           ..         100.070               64.6                         188.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
PUVERTY INCOME LEVEL (8)
URBAN                                      ..           ..            ..                 39.5
RURAL                                      ..           ..          65.0/e               69.0
. OT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
;; 0 T  S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "'ost Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1962; /g Government hospital estoblishments; /h 1966; /i Beginning 1970, the duration of
general-secondary education was reduced from 8 to 6 years; /j Includes programs of 5 training centers operated by
Departnent of Labor and 17 short-term centers operated by Ministry of Youth and Sport; /k 1963; /1 1964;
/m Omdurman, urban; /n 1967-68; /o 1978.
May 1983



-29 -                                                                               ANNEX I
descibe  orders of -egsfude, ixcinuc   trns,ad charstert-  certai   najo  dtff--ccne   -e-encunre
su-c cuty  ecp  fo-      On   noe   o    xotr'geu   fee'ndefot   ot  Of ris -,   Iddle rust  tn chosen baca:.-ofcnrogrocc--Ycoiptoro                                               h
group bn data  ar thatindicanr.  tint  nhr coerage  o  countres S_ot  nbc   .indctr  depen I cn t- bt  IIIa -Icotn   of  daa  ndaro                   -ity ,cato   cuh n  b
"1971k1    dkl~-&dl.I    .11f1 Icd  19f  at.   i-fplagtic-pr .on.ot.erct-Po..u...P                                                                             a byou"br ccpracicin
c-tn-and by ..e. ocreu   -ehod asW-cl  takica    I79f-ti be-isi;                                           rhhirtococs                    opc        c   saiuexecraetl   tfe
19hO, t9ll, and i9y1 fet,.                                                                                 byodisnon.,yooar. hshbotniosp-- II                             tttcub    unua
byrraret..  it..-d..         oR-sfbcsp,treis,ctsor,nlcrel
1960, 1970. end 1990 date,                                                                                 urba  houpitnetcle  td    ricplocro    oytlt   r   ua
Iths) pnpchattnn. rid-heat Oshnsan As  - f OsotJly 1; 19hP. iff3, -n   fIcnutiscchoia   n   - Blc                                     llyonr  ofd    --isln   s   n  ithne
dete.                                                                         roe toe~~~~~~~~~~~.pitals dtoidr-t cy the    cacofbds
d_ ff._ _______-____f__
aen   ocets    9, 97,na1981 fats                                                                 Sxrar       -tc    f       bueo -d2pe soo  Per~ bau-hild,  l-lnu,ore,adrrt
furuiccun  Peujettiit                                                                               - 0 bosa-old  cnuicti ofa -t-cp-o -cb-diIuin198o sare  iicix   quarter
Psesttian  x yea  120  -  urntppltxpoecsoear   er -0  ff2                                          sod theirYeI'd    neala.   a bo Arder orIofsco    rnpnth   niddi
tonal   opuiaiac byage ad teesr-f teir crtaity  axa  ertilty                        sb  boasec id  or ullos tiaf p            dcos -s
eass.Proetoona ennee   cr srt) iy  ats cspisrf  hre                                      fcrgrxuhrafrrit  ncrcc -toal,ebo,  odhoel o.ug..u.n
capta  nceaelen),  xdfesie  tf  enec..u t        ehi  aigs   f                                 dalos,rApo           btl.-ne-lIcotscorhct  raets tue    n
yer.Th   tauxcr   fo   ecitpreeaa                   tact..hee   feotishco -cupit  pat., -Idd""
unsocitgdetiinrinereiltsyactcrblntlttceicia.a..c......u..riiooetnofuilxt-iii    rhoodfri
pianix   pecarnc.  Ech  cutcf i    lthe.asgndy       c  oflijb  Ithsniennoccidntng uahccicty                                                   laigqrfsaspcrte
ThF-isiy   1 isr I-on   onl  afte  -rci iy   eecAc                        dr booi--  Rto
fcliennnrplcI       ecioeoInh    rturocciocte uI"frruy2hoisotiIlrod                                                                         iale-rouhodlNalotdf-ci
eahgeeaio    hnoerpIcetcefuuy                 y      hent.ar                                      nofchcYllaratarrrlciau  ~  ptna5uftd sena
pua Pir  irOnset  ccontehte  fnrpojce                           lhrurr                               hrapcho-aepc2tinltcalyatoescitro  gdni
tu  cec   hepycuin  nte  nr  ol  adtegano    e ln   f                                                     ershcsanedfrdiiecoolebifc   ruahtdcto_                                   c
cutat aca; lfhdiff0, uofOff dun. c-uouls hhht-1-1  -soutly-o  IdP ic i  hat  .:                                                             y  -0 terspd- cc   ho, ssd ar
nup;tOl,hnO   n   9811-  dana.  Y_     ,ocanio-nnf                                                   1,    lrrl  inn   pIcehfcofr)hctIifcpttIuc.ioI'
poptaion;  I'tll  ifft  exf 191_du..rctncn  na_b toI p_na""II,",oc4o-oba     0tfec                                                                                              en--lntO
(ntpopultboo ion illbbOi  lfb-fh    nd290-t                                                            ho--id-y luohl..I- -1---                    -l          P-
Puoecc irccyat                                                                                         d ecclohnb airchcisfru  .ut .inecuac   ( -rco  ),1 -lstet   acIf   faI","rud f'it"I,a
popchetn  foxify-b, 1960-Ph, ud 190-t-                                                                    p.,uttageLL oftoa   odoi  p.toioii-,u I__pnr  un  coat..
fer  oulbih   Ito    9f,  o  2f  foot                                                        dObibl-ffll
tiouc;ih, 1970, end ff01 d e- a.                                                                  _ ec   stOf-     ntnu   auo    unci n-          lucdnhltrs  huin    n
hn -unn   erduotioeperho  ifl she .d    ph:ttu--      eni         id-,-,pnfu                     rh _ecaoct  Ppnc  ,oouf  iuui_-                 -  tItoa   s   n-n           ct  a
_i_ltr   uet   sstyfnefe   araesnfsgi    01   90   c                                                    cofTnecerrip-ld1rtuscdo   op                             -tco   u -   fsc
I99.              oI.ufcn.t..osoo..boadoyntahcregsoatnicafi
propRxnu-.                                                                                       TO - .1g0,1  .A    b-A lturot   -ptibasu--popothiu-i-   -irccitr  forI -codct tdoi,
fatrtn Iic 19lerrsl cecet  fecrtd7ss)P_cntgnfnr9e                                                   P.eiraipcnc    -p  no tdpnofcii:xcof5 ntccse7oe..tr
a-n~ri_ttbRate-0n-tI-0a -e)lh-b-ders hno             s           b tch.-cco dofraot                       altyutinciato                                         T    couan-
al   ati-d     oe  i   ac    d          -cur                                                           Ocauhp             cPb,of  told  tooid-Shad
nchtfSrsct96,190icc.81d1-p~~22 stoc    do                                                                                       ce.ctIoss-icus                Iu-c c    Iou ...rrtooit
inesf  oo..c...o.pr  apt  -fb-  l=Iodl -lh tdccf .... - apis bo)suto:i,orccilli> i-y -h-uoctr-
feuttd no n_nsoa .ocheg  pesfit-c  --rctn                - ue5t;Itb1-6i. 1970, InfIt
duSe.                      LIuA-syc- r-Ab-                          b         f-d-rcl   d,hI   11y -    yI1                                                               .-      h  i        .
petnucthte           t          d-loislrisofnosocrsctnrts   lueptt.rs..biahcone(taatui-tnnntttstoe eIasI   ni.fours
enryeaolt   ficho   opce  c   ai   ntunh    a   apt   e                                                  cocsaduepae   o   otdttiuniot,scdns,tc,ccrn
s-c and ses dt-    tcttr p-yctacint. enstl-ci -li preusot ford ea-te                                     md as tr      Aleret  -td.     frc   t  caun          - ntrc  thI   .b  an fanx
Jo          at household  lest); ifbl-tf,  tOOl snd 1 ff0 de u                                                         a-    luruit,ate n-5  a   eracaeo   ona   a                           f,rn  ;- 19d
Per csiascir5    rnn(rs   e  duclPr-n It cones  ut--per  buptlhf atIItI                                                      data
ot   api   ffodyrds.sc  app  hfu  iLAisda   btt                                                        ac uyatxtteIeuaeIFtnl   at,ad   esersitputse
.euret   o   al..u.....    nalshd   y ...pcod   tofetieu                                      cTocity  rates urn- cirpo-tno  an ionsi-lstel        odty nt    i-hcr       dinc   as d
t                    Third  Cirld -dynn       ..d-dtuop   fth,t?   c- toiI dat.i-ibilrnfrcynto-i-ofopltirf-rhufhad                                                                                          -t
PR -ccaapori  sorl  reasol5fcis       rtf   spi   ffa                                                     thPoa   frfre
fertoe   d Erni uotal   o-d putg -e o   -gas  par day;...t ..-bId InP  aed~It 1977A                                                   -!11-   . ;Il~  9                  I   ~Id
dt.    t--sPchh  -                                                        1     -                       tltisI..t.
tO hh.t     1ders    - 1; a 1961ytrcnarftMx                deaths prshncsisyi -nteanortuetcrt-dPfic                                                   --t       Inabnattfetnurdirtceu
asOet;lth   .tl  an   108  dna,uhol  teiferi-dd t-   brtt-esir   auio........i T                                                                                                         `
pero  ft pr Ilar    btybrhs   fO    .9D0 aol t ff            IIh,                                ac--oict  pcoehpicor  irn)i              Ita   ixoaInc  h-lce e1uo a stica
Monet of sara icannr iperc     ..e a   puoaIIs  - Y cc , urhax  ,an  caa -'                       nonri--ooelIfedetatefi  yI:u  es-ntia  non fon   reotss                    s-c
dnnu,ceuinatndutsuha- that f 7  r-apernefhore-                 le,-psg23 n --ueulrnItI. eccct...rlce                                                oo-id o   nerag   prrcapdinA
aenttecy   ells) sepnrcsntars t  oh;rru-ed,n   popota  inP.    Inenp..ua   inoeo.h..ofy                                                   ra   ecl    eic   fo                 oa
.gctsg....cretao_spis        i  pe_uIn oth copolanito20c)rT,-phtota20l,- orhan, and--                                                                                                           
neal  - ttontr of peope  Inonul,  rbec, aod eralt  arror  by eucr:h
-d-spnsa-t 00 pccetu._ o                      9btr   esptnceuptatos .   PocetaOteosd
HEALTiotodcboiLVtcondRTYa,achr_eooceacecEf                                                                                                            coc;cotRitsu             buiso
icccanrcretaansestr-atnr h1  A,r-boo - ysb      n   or tEe unfr o.. patih                   Ttx-c.... .e.t.rf.... -  Ifisan                                    -roecton   It-partncs
stninies    160 ao   70tstla    inta9aine d--ip  tffidb~ _f



ANNEX I
Psge 4
SUDAN - COUNTRY UATA
ECONOM1C INDICATCRS
ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1981182 1/                            (X, Constant Prices)
US$ Mln.     %           1977/78-1981/82      1977/78-1981/82
GDP at Market Prices            8,894.4   100.0                  8.0                  0.1
Gross Domestic Investment    1,051.7        11.8               11.4                   4.4
Gross National Saving            -248.6    -2.8               - 2.6                -24.8
Current Account Balance        -1,300.2   -14.15              -30.6                -23.9
Exports of Goods, NFS             787.8      8.9              - 2.7                   1.8
Imports of Goods, NFS           2,246.3    25.3                 9.8                 11.9
O1,JTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 19S1/82
Value Added 2/       Labor Force 3/          V.A. Per Worker
USS Mln.     %        i1ln.                 USS     (of average)
Agriculture       2,989    36.5         3.93      70.3         760        52.0
Industry          1,139     13.9        0.40       7.2       2,840       194.5
Services          4,052    49.5         1.26      22.5       3,210       220.0
Total        8,180   100.0        5.59    100.0        1,460        100,0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government - 1.981/82
(LSd. Mln.)        % of GDP /
Current Receipts                    890               12.3
CurrenLt Expenditure                975               13.5
Current Surplus                    - 84              - 1.2
Capital Expenditures 5/             512                7. 1
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                 77/78   78/79    79/80    80/81    81/82
(million LSd outstanding end period)
Money Supply                             669.1   877.0   1,047.5  1,488.9  2,028.1
Bank Credit to Central Government        593.5   913.7   1,131.6  1,400.0  1,590.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector and
Parastatals                          490.8   652.9        814.3  1,118.6  1,560.9
(Percentages)
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index (estimates)           17.0    25.6        25.9      28.1      24.9
Banlk Credit to Central Government        27.4    54.0        23.8      23.7      13.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector
and Parastatals                        13.5    33.0        24.7      37.4      39.5
NOTE: A1l conversions to dollars in this table are at the annual average ef'ective
nominal exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/  Barnk staff estimates.
2/  The lnst year or officially publ:Lshed nationnl accounts is 1977/78; e   data
prce.nted here are the Goverm;iient's own eLstL".i1:es presevned in
Prow,ram-nis and Policies for            ilcveioiic_  :;mnt _ 19B2/s '3-194/85.
3/  Total labor force (est.); Uwtnrlo>'d avc aiincited to ';OcLor o. their normal
occupation.  "Unallocated" consi:ts naiinly of u:nemployed workers seeking their
first job.
4/  At m;.:ket prices.
5/  Expenditure-  froa Developmk-&nt Budget (includcs snem capital expenditures by other
public entities).
FA2D9
November 10, 1983



SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
TRADE BALANCE ANI) CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTIMATES
1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82         MERCIHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1979/80-1981/82)
(Millions US$)
US$ Mln.           %
Exports Goods, NFS                 699        798        801        788
Imports Goods, NFS               1,321      1,564      1,827      2,246       Cotton                     179.1           35.9
Resource Gap                     - 622      - 765    -1,026    -1,458         Sorghum                     70.2           14.0
Interest, MLT Debt (net)          - 72       - 60       - 79      - 184       Groundauts                  47.1            9.4
Other Factor Paymiients (net)    - 69        - 59       - 88      - 192       Gum Arabic                  41.5            8.3
Private Transfers                  240        209        305        350       Sesanme                     40.7            8.1
Current Balance                  - 451      - 615        809    -1,300        Other                       91.0           18.2
Public Grants                       17         84        122        174              Total               477.0          100.0
Direct Investment                  --          10         20         70
Public MLT Loans, disb.            618        615        540        420       EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1982
Public MLT Loans, amort.            30         42         52         97
Total Public Net                   588        573        488        322                                              US$ Mln.
Net Credit, IMF                     58        115        165
Capital Flows (inel. errors                                                   Public Debt, DOD, MLT                  5.096.0 1/
and omissions)                  160     - 113        - 52        499
Change In Net Reserves                                                        DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981/82
(- indicates increase)        - 50       - 54          66        235                                                   %
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             18.3
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                              Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding and Disbursed
Annual Averages             End Period
1980/81       1981/82      Nov. 81   Dec. 82.        ISRD/IDA LENDING, (Dec. 31, 1982) (Million US$)
Official:                                                                                                           IBRD      IDA
LSd 1 = US$         2.000/1.250  1.250/1.111    1.111        0.769
Effective:                                                                    Outstanding and Disbursed             46.8    339.6
LSd 1 - US$             1.580         1.230        1.111      0.769        Uiidisbursed                           2.6    259.0
Free Market:                                                                  Outstanding incl. Undisbursed         49.4    598.6
LSd 1 = US$              ---                      0.769       0.556
,. Not available.
1/ Total DOD (including IMF, outstanding arrears, and millitary debt) is, however,
estimated to US$7.3 billion as of December 31, 1982.
November 10, 1983



- 2 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of March 31, 1984)
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan/                                                                            Undis-
Credit No.      Year   Borrower  Purpose                   Bank          IDA    bursed
Seven Loans and fifteen Credits fully disbursed:           139.0         256.1
Credit 547       1975   Sudan      Education II                           10.0    0.6
Credit 614      1976   Sudan       Technical Assistance                    4.0    0.1
Credit 782       1978   Sudan      Livestock MarketLng                    25.0   12.2
Credit 804       1978   Sudan      Mechanized Farming III                 16.0    7.7
Credit 834       1978   Sudan      Agricultural Research                  15.0    7.8
Credit 882       1979   Sudan      Highway II                             41.0    2.7
Credit 904      1979   Sudan       So. Region Agriculture                 15.0    7.6
Credit 1006    1980   Sudan        Third Power                            65.0   30.3
Credit 1022    1980   Sudan        New Halfa RLehabilitation              40.0   30.8
Credit 1118 /1 1981   Sudan        Blue Nile Pump Rehab.                  32.0   25.5
Credit 1119 71 1981   Sudan        White! Nile Pump Rehab.                35.0   27.3
Credit 1153 71 1981   Sudan        Second Tech. Assistance                 6.0    4.1
Credit 1181 71 1981   Sudan        Western Savannah                       13.0    4.5
Credit 1201 71 1982   Sudan        Agricultural Services                  18.0   15.7
Credit 1233 /1 1982   Sudan        Second Port                            25.0   10.2
Credit 1388 71 1983   Sudan   **Gezira Rehabilitation                     80.0   80.0
Credit 1389 71 1983   Sudan        Agric. Rehab. Program II               50.0   49.4
Credit F011*7T  1984   Sudan   **Third Education Project                  10.0   10.0
Credit 1451 71 1984   Sudan   **Thircl Education Project                   5.4    5.4
Credit 1450 7T 1984   Sudan        Third Highway Project                  16.0   16.0
Total                                           139.0         777.5  343.8
of which repaid                               96.4            4.2
Total now outstanding                           42.6          773.3
Amount sold                      5.8                   8.3
of which repaid                5.8              -   8.3       -
Total held by Bank & IDA                         42.6         773.3
Total undisbursed                                 Nil         343.8  343.8
/1  IDA 6 Credits, US dollar equivalent of SDRs at time of legotiations.
(Note: SDR amounts of these 11 credits are: SDR 25.1 million, SDR 27.5
million, SDR 4.9 million, SDR 11.2 milLion, SDR 15.7 million, SDR 21.5
million, SDR 74.2 million, SDR 46.4 million, SDR 9.6 million, SDR 5.2
million and SDR 15.5 million respectively.)
** Not yet effective.
*/1 Special Fund Credit



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                                                (Amount in US$ million)
Year           Obligor                                  Loan   Equity  Total
1964 and        Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.
1972            Textiles                                1.9    0.3      2.2
1976            Cotton Textile Mills                      8.7    1.3    10.0
1978            Seleit Food Production Ltd.              11.0    1.2    12.2
1978            Gezira/Managil Textile Co. Ltd.           6.7    1.4      8.1
1980            Sudan Cement Company                       -      0.2     0.2
1982            White Nile Petroleum Co. Ltd.              -      0.3     0.3
Total gross commitments                  28.3    4.7    33.0
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                    6.7    0.5      7.2
Total commitments now held by IFC        21.6    4.2    25.8
Total undisbursed by IFC                  1.9    0.2      2.1



- 34 -
Annex III
Page I
SUDAN
SUGAR REHABILITATION P'ROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Evernts
(a)   Time Taken to Prepare Project:        18 months
(b)   Preparation by:                       Tate and Lyles Technical
Services Ltd., (UK)
(c)   Initial Discussions with
Association:                        September 1980
(d)   First Bank Mission                    October 1981
(e)   Appraisal Mission Departure:          September 21, 1983
(f)   Completion of Negotiations:           April 17, 1984
(g)   Planned Date of Effectiveness:        September 30, 1984
A PPF advance to accelerate project. preparation through the
provision of technical assistance for the establishment of the Sugar
Project Implementation Cell was granted on April 4, 1983 and a supplemental
PPF for consultative services to prepare ground-heave rectification designs
was granted on May 7, 1984.
III.      Conditions of Effectiveness, additional to those provided for in
the General Conditions would be: a) execution of Subsidiary Loan
Agreements, acceptable to IDA, governing the onlending of project
funds to the sugar companies, b) evidence satisfactory to IDA of
the availability of at least US$64.5 million of funds from
external donors for the project, and c) announcement of a
producer price for 1984/85 satisfactory to IDA.
IV. Special Conditions
(a)   GOS will transfer ownership of assets used to operate pump
stations and major canals from MOAI to the sugar companies no
later than July 1, 1985 (para. 71>.



- 35 -
(b)   GOS will ensure that the sugar companies have access to
essential imported recurrent inputs (para. 85).
(c)   Each of the companies will furnish initial balance sheets based
on principles acceptable to IDA no later than Mar,a 31, 1985
(para. 77).
(d)   GOS will:
i) determine the producer price for sugar in accordance with
principles acceptable to the Association (para. 80);
ii) announce such producer prices not later than October 1
each year, starting in 1985, after consultation with IDA
(para. 80).
(e)   Completion of detailed designs for ground-heave rectification at
Sennar and Assalaya by consultants acceptable to IDA by December
31, 1984 (para. 93).
(f)   Introduction of the individual account system at Guneid on a
basis acceptable to IDA by June 30, 1985 (para. 83).






IBRD 17953
25-                                 30-                                  35-                JANUARY  984
ARAB   REPUBLIC   OF   EGYPT
1                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wadi Hch If/ 
S U D A N                                                                                             ea
SUGAR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project  Locations                                               t                 RE D
20'                                                                                   j
N       --   -  H    VAIDongolo  X   n   no. 10                    ort Sudon
Korimo
i       !                                   /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~At I'r0<6    
N NORTHERN    !                                            /
J        DA RFUR                        !\KmdurmonOL 'HAr TOUAr                  NEW HALFA       i/ 
( S                            I                                     \ (                      U t   *Kossla     T
NOR  THERN IV                          >GUNEID                            15'
X  J(f )GfZ\iA n     KA S SAt| Aj 
K O R D O F A N                          dEd  Mdon
I                             0 oEl Fasher                                     Due.                 Ed Gedoref               -V
2      g          ?   .                g                El Obeid             Kosht  SL
O   Q_    g     0Zo lngei                                       /, X -             
Nyola      S                  <    ;    Ilng                     Jt N0arno/  
SOUTHERHN                                   SOUTHERN
DA RFUR             aBbOnuso         0Kadugli             )
00f-                                  \.                                    \/ KORDOFAN I
C E NTRAL                                                                                                        2)0 j  > _  .  N U  l  0  200    3 00LOMETEES
RE PUBLIC                                                                                           0          10Z205IF1
Th IdEBssbGrxcssE   Z_$   zZA HR    9EL    ( <l0 0!                    -        Sugar Estotes
ROa.licys
sZ)p OVer 0r o                                 rr4 \ev/              0                  / t               O0  Selected Towns
r,flWTh.r*44Sa,5~raC,                OHAZAL         W o         'Th~                                     --  Rivers
a,~ Ore , G//A                                                             JA 02XAWau zFz         7    1ki    o N  G ' F /  >-- -- Provrnc,al Boundcrres
:2' :::r~~~~Orrer  25'  'N    F~~~~~~   B1,'HEYRAT~~~~~\~~~.  'C'     l/ nternotionrol Boundories
ZY tsor Y         -           -        -' BU//tF~~~~q U  LFYRAr    '.
I azZirses          25-                                 oRurnbekl
LIEYA     ARAB -    -    ",O                                    0                                                             7
REP OF'2           QT.,
5AU01111 ARABIA                L/SRr(
I  ~ ~ ~~~ETERN
C I-IA 0Xa As             .   r0  .'      .        FOJUA  TORI/A         (           EAS7ERN Ri                                    5
CHA0                                                     0 Kh:r1Ou26  ?)  k  Mcr id.  ? Jubo  aUA FOR /A  .>-
E ETHIOPIAs r'/
k A F R I C A N F E P.t\   8  \IE Z  A   I R  E                                                         ' ,.  .     K Eg NY   A
Z A I R E   tDArKENYA  f                                                       C'U   N  DA                      DA.






