CREDIT NUMBER 1506 SU
O~i'F1CA
DOCUMENTS,
New Haifa Project Agreement
(Sugar Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NEW HALFA SUGAR COMPANY LIMITED
Dated                              , 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1506 SU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      &a, 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION    (hereinafter called the
Association) and NEW HALFA SUGAR COMPANY LIMITED (hereinafter
called NHSC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between The Democratic Republic of Sudan (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifty-six million four hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 56,400,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on
condition that NHSC agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NHSC, part of the proceeds of the Credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to NHSC on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS NHSC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. NHSC declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part E of the


﻿- 2 -
Project described in said Schedule with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and agricultural practices.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist NHSC in carrying out
Part E of the Project, NHSC shall employ, in accordance with the
Annual Work Program, management and other consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association, such consultants to be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) NHSC shall collaborate, under arrangements satisfactory
to the Association, with SPIC in the recruitment of the consul-
tants referred to in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree: (a) procurement of the goods and civil works required for
Part E of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement; and
(b) NHSC shall collaborate, under arrangements satisfactory
to the Association, with MOFEP's Project Procurement Committee
and SPIC in the procurement of goods and civil works.
Section 2.04. (a) NHSC undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision foc %he insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by NHSC to replace or repair
such goods.
(b) NHSC shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower
to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) NHSC shall furnish through SPIC to the
Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specift-
cRtions, reports, contract documents and work and procurement


﻿- 3 -
schedules for Part E of the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request.
(b) NHSC shall: (i) maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of Part E of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish through SPIC to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by NHSC of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between NHSC and the
Association, NHSC   shall prepare and furnish to the Association
through SPIC a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of its part of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
NHSC and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
(e) NHSC shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of NHSC and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. NHSC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, NHSC shall not take or coacur


﻿in any action which would have the effect of amending, abroga-
ting, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) NHSC shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the respective Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) NHSC shall promptly     inform  the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by NHSC of its obligations under
this   Agreement  and  under   the  respective   Subsidiary  Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) NHSC shall prepare and submit to SPIC, not
later than August 31, 1984, and thereafter not later than March 1
of each year, a draft annual work program for the following
fiscal year with respect to Part E of the Project, such programs
to be prepared according to a format and to include items
satisfactory to the Association.
(b) After receipt of the Association's notification that it
has found the proposed Annual Work Program satisfactory, NHSC
shall carry out in the following fiscal year its activities with
respect to Part E of the Project in accordance with such program,
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of NHSC
Section 3.01. NHSC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and agricultural practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. NHSC shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with      sound engineering,
financial and agriculttral practices.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.03. NHSC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practices.
Section 3.04. NHSC shall:
(a)  accept an annual review of its performance by consul-
tants employed by the Borrower; and
(b)   exchange views with the Borrower and the Association
not later than September 30 of each year on the remedial actions
proposed by said consultants.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) NHSC shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
(b) NHSC shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the
Association's representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. NHSC shall:
(a) furnish to the Association, not later than March 31,
1985, its initial balance sheet based on principles satisfactory
to the Association;
(b) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses, and related state-
ments) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(c) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
not later than six months after the end of each such year,
unaudited financial statements;


﻿- 6 -
(d) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
not later than nine months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested, including, without limitation upon the
foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors in respect of
expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this
Agreement, as to whether the proceeds of the Credit made avail-
able to it and withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and
(e) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts, financial statements, records and
expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Borrower and the Association may
otherwise agree:
(a) NIISC shall not incur any debt if, after the incurrence
of such debt, the debt of NHSC shall be greater than the equity
of NHSC.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of NHSC
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
(Ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
(A) under a loan contract or agreement or other
instrument providing for such debt or for the
modification of its terms of payment on the
date of such contract, agreement or instra-
ment; and
(B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
agreement providing for such guarantee has
been entered into.
(iii) The term "equity" means the sum of the total
unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and
reserves of NHSC not allocated to cover specific
liabilities.


﻿- 7 -
(iv) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of Sudanese
Pounds, debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing official rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for   the purposes of servicing such
debt.
Section 4.04. Except as the Borrower and the Association may
otherwise agree:
(a) NHSC shall not incur any debt, unless its net revenues
for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such
incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the
date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at
least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements
of NHSC for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of NIISC,
including the debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of NHSC
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
(A)   under a loan contract or agreement or other
instrument providing for such debt or for the
modification of its terms of payment on the
date of such contract, agreement or instru-
ment; and
(B)  under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
agreement providing for such guarantee has
been enteced into.
(iii) The   term  "net revenues" means    the difference
between:
(A) the sum of revenues from all soLIrces related
to operations adjusted to take account of
NHSC's prices in effect at the time of the
incurrence of debt even though they were not
in effect during the twelve-month period to
which such revenues relate and net non-
operating income; and


﻿-8 -
(B) the sum of all expenses related to operations
including administration, adequate mainte-
nance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
but excluding provision for depreciation,
other non-cash charges and interest and other
charges on debt.
(iv) The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A) revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B) expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation of
revenues in (A) above.
(v) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(vi) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of Sudanese
Pounds, debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the basis of the pre-
vailing official rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of NHSC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or


﻿- 9 -
(ii) a date twelve years after the date of         this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in para-
graph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly
notify NHSC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For New Halfa Sugar Company Limited:
c/o Ministry of Industry
P.O. Box 2184
Khartoum
The Democratic Republic of Sudan


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                    Telex:
SADDEN                            22665-SUKAR
Khartoum, Sudan
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of NHSC, may be taken or executed by
its Managing Director or such other person or persons as NHSC
shall designate in writing, and NHSC shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WREREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                          V
Regional Vi.e P esident
Eastern Africa
NEW HALFA SUGAR COMPANY LIMITED
By    /uthorized R
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
ther   to the            day of
1987      d.
FOR SECRETARY


