Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15676
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UPPER INDRAVATI BYDRO PROJECT
(Loan 2278-IN and Credit 1356-IN)
June 3, 1996
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distnibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupee (Rs) = 100 Paise
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
Indian Fiscal Year       Historic Exchange Rates                    Consumer Price
(April 1 to March 31)         Rupees/US$                           Index (1982=100)
Official      Unified      Market
April 1983 (SAR)                9.50
FY 1983/84                     10.31
FY 1984/85                     11.89
FY 1985/86                     12.24
FY 1986/87                     12.79
FY 1987/88                     12.97
FY 1988/89                     14.48
FY 1989/90                     16.66
FY 1990/91                     17.95
FY 1991/92                     24.52
FY 1992/93                     26.41                     30.65
FY 1993/94                                  31.36
FY 1994/95                                  31.40
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER AND ORISSA
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I Kilometer                          = 1,000 meters (m) = 0.6214 miles
I Meter (m)                          = 39.37 inches (in)
1 Cubic Meter (m3)                   = 1.31 cubic yards (cu yd)=35.35 cubic feet (ft. 3)
I Hectare (ha)                       = 10,000 square meters (m2) = 2.471 acres (ac)
1 Ton (t)                            = 1,000 kilograms (kg) = 2,200 pounds (lb)
I Kilovolt                           = 1,000 volts (V)
I Kilovolt-Ampere (kVA)              = 1,000 volt-amperes (VA)
1 Megawatt (MW)                      = 1,000 kilowatts (kW) = I million watts
I Kilowatt-hour (kWh)                = 1,000 watt-hours
I Megawatt-hour (MWh)                = 1,000 kilowatt-hours
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)                - 1,000,000 kilowatt-hours



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEA            Central Electricity Authority
CMO            Construction Management Organization
CWC            Central Water Commission
DOE            Department of Energy
DOWR           Department of Water Resources
DP             Displaced Person
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA            International Development Association
PAP            Project Affected Person
PFC            Power Finance Corporation
POE            Panel of Experts
RAP            Rehabilitation Action Plan
RRU            Resettlement and Rehabilitation Unit
OHPC           Orissa Hydro Power Corporation
OIPD           Orissa Irrigation and Power Department
OSEB           Orissa State Electricity Board
UIHP           Upper Indravati Hydro Electric Project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



II



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UPPER INDRAVATI HYDRO PROJECT
(Loan 2278-IN and Credit 1356-IN)
Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ....................................................................i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .................................................1
A.  EVALUATION  OF  PROJECT  OBJECTIVES  .............................................................                                        1
Sectoral Context .................................................1
Project Objectives .................................................1
Physical Objectives .................................................1
B ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES .                                        ............................................................1
Summary  Implementation  Record .................................................2
C  MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT PERFORMANCE ...........................................3
Factors Not Subject to  Government Control .................................................                                      3
Factors Subject to  Government Control  .................................................4
Factors Subject to Implementing Agency Control .................................................8
D. SUSTAINABILITY  . . .11
E.  BANK'S  PERFORMANCE  ..............                                                    .............................................. 12
F. BORROWER'S AND IMPLEMENTING AGENCY'S PERFORMANCE ............................. 14
G.  ASSESSMENT  OF PROJECT  OUTCOME  ........................................................... .  15
H. FUTURE OPERATION .............                                                        ................................................ 15
I.  KEY  LESSONS LEARNED  ............................................................. 16



PART H: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Studies Included in Project
Table 6:     Project Costs
Table 7:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9:     Bank Resources: Missions
Appendices:
Appendix A. Mission's Aide Memoire
Appendix B. Borrower's Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report
Appendix C. Upper Indravati Project - Project Completion Issues



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UPPER INDRAVATI HYDRO PROJECT
(Loan 2278-IN and Credit 1356-IN)
Preface
This is the Implementation Project Report (ICR) for the Upper Indravati Hydro Project
for which Credit 1356-IN in the amount of SDR 156.0 million equivalent and Loan 2278-IN in
the amount of US$ 156.4 million equivalent were approved on May 10, 1983, signed on June 8,
1983, and made effective on September 9, 1983.
Both the Loan and the Credit were granted to the Government of India which made
available the proceeds to Government of Orissa in accordance with Government of India's
standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the states of India.
The IBRD loan was closed on December 31, 1991 compared with the original date of
June 30, 1991. The only loan disbursement of about US$ 0.4 million for payment of the front-end
fee to the Bank was made in the third quarter of 1983. The IDA credit was closed on June 30,
1995 compared with the original date of June 30, 1991. The credit was fully disbursed, and the
last disbursement took place on March 30, 1995. There was no cofinancing for the project.
The ICR was prepared by the Energy Operations Division (SA2EI), reviewed by the Jean-
Francois Bauer, Division Chief, SA2EI, and Mrs. Kazuko Uchimura, Project Advisor, SA2DR.
The Orissa Hydro Power Corporation (OHPC) and the Department of Energy, Government of
Orissa, provided comments that are included as Appendix B.
The project is still to be completed. Appendix C highlights the key issues to be addressed
by OHPC and the Orissa government to help ensure successful project completion.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
UPPER INDRAVATI HYDRO PROJECT
(Loan 2278-IN and Credit 1356-IN)
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives
1.    According to the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the project has two main objectives:
(i) to provide a substantial block of low cost power and energy to help meet the growing
electricity needs of the state of Orissa, and (ii) to provide water to irrigate 109,000 ha of
cultivable land. The downstream irrigation project to help utilize the water provided by the
project was treated as a separate project by Orissa and the Bank. It received financial support
from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan and was not appraised by the Bank.
Evaluation of Objectives
2.    The project objectives continue to be valid, but they have not yet been achieved, as neither
the reservoir or the power complex are completed. The downstream irrigation project has not
been completed either. The SAR also stated that the Bank's strategy in the Indian power sector
included strengthening the finances of sector institutions, particularly SEBs. Agreements reached
included financial objectives for Orissa State Electricity Board (OSEB) and actions to improve
OSEB's financial and operational performance (paras. 38-42). However, there was very little
progress in improving OSEB's overall financial performance till 1993 when it was decided to
proceed with a sweeping institutional reform of the Orissa power sector.
3.    Although the SAR expected that the tribal people who form most of the population in the
area where the project is located will develop economically and socially both during the
construction period; and after the project went into operation, the project did not have any
explicit social objectives for the affected population.
Implementation Experience and Results
Implementation Schedule
4.    Construction work on site was started in 1979, but by project appraisal by the Bank in late
1982 only some preliminary work had been completed. The original implementation schedule -
commissioning of the first unit in late 1988 - was ambitious and the project experienced
substantial delays in implementation right from the start. It was two years behind schedule by
1986, largely due to delays in procurement. A further year had been lost by late 1990, due to the



- ii -
slow pace of construction. Several key project components suffered substantial damage in a
severe flood in 1991 which halted construction. In March 1995, when the final disbursement from
the IDA Credit took place the project was only two-thirds complete. There has been little
progress since then due to lack of funds to continue construction. The completion of the Upper
Indravati project was threatened by the lack of funds up to March 1996, when OHPC secured Rs
3,200 million completion financing from the Power Finance Corporation (PFC).
5.    With hindsight, it is clear that the original implementation schedule agreed with the Bank
during project appraisal was overly optimistic. For a project of this magnitude and complexity,
situated in a remote area, such a tight schedule was not realistic. It did not take account of the
time required to prepare tender documents acceptable to the Bank, the risk of encountering
geotechnical problems, and the capabilities of local civil works contractors. In conclusion, it
must be noted that in spite of the extra-ordinary problems and delays, the project is still projected
to provide power at a highly attractive rate (at less than 50 per cent of the cost of electricity from
new base-load thermal stations) and remains a priority component in the Orissa/Eastern region
power system. OHPC's challenge is to realize this potential by completing the Upper Indravati
project, for which it now has the necessary funding.
Key Factors Affecting Implementation
Project Management
6.    The project was implemented by the Orissa state government. The Orissa government
was too involved in direct management of the Upper Indravati project. Project management at
site lacked autonomy and decision making authority. At the same time, it was never provided
with satisfactory communications infrastructure, despite its remote location. This compounded the
delays arising from the high degree of the Orissa government involvement in decision-making.
The Orissa government's split of the Irrigation and Power Department in 1990 diffused
responsibilities and further weakened project management (para. 21).
7.    In 1991 the delegation of full responsibility for project management to an international
consulting firm became a condition for lifting the suspension of disbursements and a new
Construction Management Organization (CMO) was set up in 1993. The CMO was in charge of
the project for about two years from mid- 1993 onwards. There does not appear to have been an
appreciable increase in the pace of implementation during this period (para. 24). The CMO was
unable to effectively carry out the objectives defined in the TOR as, inter alia, the Orissa
government did not give wholehearted support to the new arrangements. It also appears that
working relations between project staff and consulting firm staff were not ideal for the success of
the CMO.
The 1991 Flood and Subsequent Fund Constraints
8.    Apart from the loss of 25 construction workers' lives, the physical damage and resulting
repairs were a major setback to the project both in terms of time and cost (para. 34). It also gave
rise to serious concerns within the Bank about the quality of engineering and construction and the
safety of the dams under construction. Since substantial disbursements could be justified only



- iii -
after a safety and engineering soundness evaluation and the project reorganization and
reactivation, the Bank canceled the still completely unused US$156 million Ln. 2278-IN in
December. The IDA Credit was extended to finance resettlement, consulting services for the
soundness assessment and project management and some civil works, following confirmation of
the Project's soundness by the external engineering consultant review. Cr. 1356-IN was depleted
in 1995. The completion of the Upper Indravati project was threatened by the lack of funds up to
March 1996, when OHPC secured completion financing from PFC.
Changes in Project Costs and Financing
9.    The final cost of the project is not yet known. It was initially expected to cost Rs 4,800
million (in 1982 prices) or about US$ 507 million at the prevailing exchange rate. The latest
OHPC estimate is Rs about 11,200 million (in current early-1996 prices). As this estimate or
year-by-year expenditures were not available at the time of the ICR mission, a detailed constant
price comparison could not be made, but the total cost of the project is expected to be well below
US$500 million. About Rs 6,500 million has so far been spent and the balance, about Rs 4,700
million (about US$ 135 million), represents the unfinished portion of the project.
Bank Performance
10.   There were weaknesses in the quality of project appraisal and supervision was inadequate
in the pre-1987 period. Supervision intensified from 1987 (and was extended to resettlement),
but had little impact on Orissa's project implementation performance. The Bank could have been
firmer in seeking measures to redress deficiencies in project implementation prior to 1991. As can
be seen from the three instances when the Bank desisted from formally suspending disbursements
(para. 48), there was a tendency to accept the Orissa government assurances of imminent action in
place of real measures. It is apparent that the Bank's pre-1991 patience and tolerance of
shortcomings in implementation performance did not help the narrow objective of completing the
project as rapidly as possible. It is also clear, however, that the Bank's new approach pursued
from 1991, inter alia pressuring Orissa to address project management and resettlement
deficiencies by canceling Ln. 2278-IN and withholding completion financing, has not yet yielded
the desired results either. Time will tell if OHPC, the product of a Bank-supported power sector
reform program in Orissa, will be able to successfully complete the project.
Borrower Performance
11.   The performance of the Borrower was found to be deficient in project design,
management arrangements, and implementation. There was - and still today remains - a general
reluctance to recognize that Orissa's project team did not have the management and engineering
skills required for such a large and complex project. The fact that Orissa had in the past and was
at the same much more successfully implementing similar projects contributed to the unwillingness
to accept and utilize external assistance for the project. The cost of delays in terms of foregone
revenues or additional costs was given little importance. The Orissa government showed little
commitment to improving OSEB's performance during the ten years prior to 1993. However,
since 1993 there have been positive indications and firm demonstration of a new resolve to pursue
fundamental sector reforms (paras. 44-45).



- iv -
Sustainability
12.   Since the project is unfinished, it is not possible to draw final conclusions on its
sustainability. If completed satisfactorily, it is likely that the project will generate power and
provide water for irrigation. In spite of the extra-ordinary problems and delays, the project is still
projected to provide power at a highly attractive rate (at less than 50 per cent of the cost of
electricity from new base-load thermal stations) and remains a priority component in the
Orissa/Eastem region power system. OHPC's challenge is to realize this potential by completing
the Upper Indravati project, for which it now has the necessary funding.
Assessment of Outcome
13.   Upper Indravati is an unfinished project. Meanwhile repayment of the IDA Credit has
already begun. This is an unsatisfactory interim outcome. However, this assessment will have to
be revisited upon physical completion of the project. In spite of the extra-ordinary problems and
delays, the project is still projected to provide power at a highly attractive rate and remains a
priority component in the Orissa/Eastern region power system. Far-reaching reforms to the
power sector as a whole have begun, and may prove to have highly positive effects. As a part of
the reform program, the Upper Indravati project has been transferred from the state government
to OHPC. Its challenge is to complete the project, for which it now has the necessary funding.
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
Future Operations
14.   Responsibility for the project has been formally handed over by the state government to
OIPC. Once completed, OHPC will also operate the project. OHPC is operating Orissa's other
hydro projects and is expected to be able to operate the Upper Indravati as well. A complete
range of institution building support is being provided to OHPC under the Orissa Power Sector
Restructuring Project.
Key Lessons Learned
*  The design and quality of project management arrangements is probably the single most
important element for successful and timely project implementation. The Bank should not
agree to support projects where such fundamental conditions are not satisfied.
*  Dependence on design and engineering consultants such as Central Water Commission
(CWC) who are not answerable to the project owner should be avoided.
*  Important engineering issues such as anti-sedimentation measures should be resolved at
the time of project appraisal or as soon as possible thereafter.
*  Competitive bidding can result in award of contracts to public sector firms who submit
unrealistically low bids. More rigorous prequalification and bid evaluation may help to
prevent this.



v 
The successful use of consultants for project management requires a genuine commitment
on the part of the implementing agency and/or project owner, and cooperation by the
consultants' counterparts on the ground. Lack of such support will undermine even the
best of efforts by consultants. Adequate resources should also be provided. Apparent
cost savings achieved by reducing expatriate staff and introducing lower cost but less than
fully qualified local support will be over-shadowed by implementation delays and
difficulties.
This project is the latest addition to a generally unsuccessful series of Bank operations in
the Indian power sector at the state level, with state electricity boards and their state
govermments. But in this case the prospects for addressing the fundamental management
and financial problems - and successfully completing the Upper Indravati project - are
encouraging. Since 1992 the Government of Orissa, OSEB and the Bank have discussed
the issues and possible solutions to Orissa's fundamental power problems. In 1993, the
Government of Orissa and OSEB agreed upon a power sector reform program as the
logical conclusion to these deliberations. The program involves privatization of power
distribution and separation of the power sector from direct government control through
regulatory reforms, corporatization, commercialization and private sector participation.
The Bank approved on May 14, 1996, the Orissa Power Sector Restructuring Project (Ln.
4014-IN) to support Orissa's pioneering reforrn program.



I



PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Sectoral Context
1.    The project was appraised at a time of severe power shortages in Orissa, particularly for
industrial consumers who accounted for 85% of consumption. These shortages, exceeding 20%
of total demand in recent years, have remained a semi-permanent feature of the power sector in
Orissa, even though electricity sales have more than doubled to about 6,000 GWh in 1994. The
-number of consumers has risen from under 0.6 million in 1982 to over 1.1 million.
Project Objectives
2.    The SAR states that the project has two main objectives: First, it will provide a
substantial block of low cost power and energy to help meet the growing electricity needs of the
state of Orissa and the Eastern Region of India. Second, the project will take waters from the
Indravati River in the Godavari Basin, and direct them into the Hati River in the Mahanadi Basin,
thus providing water for 109,000 ha of cultivable land for which there is no other feasible source
of irrigation. The downstream irrigation project to help utilize the water provided by the project
was treated as a separate project by Orissa and the Bank. It received financial support from the
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan and was not appraised by the Bank.
Physical Objectives
3.    The Upper Indravati Hydroelectric Project is located in southwest Orissa. Its physical
objectives were the construction of four dams, ranging in height from 40m to 73m and eight
dikes, two link channels within the 110 sq. km. reservoir, an approach channel and an intake
structure, an emergency irrigation outlet, a headrace tunnel and surge tank, penstocks, a 4 X 150
MW power plant, and a 9 km tailrace channel and diversion structure. The average annual power
generation from the project is projected to exceed 1,900 GWh.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
4.    The project objectives continue to be valid, but they have not yet been achieved, as neither
the reservoir or the power complex are completed. The downstream irrigation project has not
been completed either. The economic rate of return (excluding irrigation benefits) was estimated
to be 12% at the time of appraisal, but has not been recalculated given that the project is
unfinished. However, the project remains attractive as the cost of power generation from it is
estimated at about Rs 1.0/kWh against Rs 1.8 to Rs 2.2/kWh from new base-load coal thermal
plants. Given that Upper Indravati will provide peaking capacity, which is of even higher
economic value, there is a strong case for completion as rapidly as possible.



5.    The SAR also stated that the Bank's strategy in the Indian power sector included
strengthening the finances of sector institutions, particularly SEBs. Agreements reached included
financial objectives for OSEB and actions to improve OSEB's financial and operational
performance (paras. 38-42). However, there was very little progress in improving OSEB's overall
financial performance till 1993 when it was decided to proceed with a sweeping institutional
reform of the sector.
6.    Although the SAR expected that the tribal people who form most of the population in the
area where the project is located will develop economically and socially, both during the
construction period and after the project goes into operation, the project did not have any explicit
social objectives for the affected population. Resettlement issues were treated rather cursorily in
the SAR, although this may not have been unusual for projects appraised in the early 1980s.
7.    After a late and unsatisfactory start (paras. 30-32), the resettlement program was
completed successfully. It has also led to improvements in overall resettlement practices in Orissa
and the higher standards used in the project will become the norm for future resettlement. The
successful outcome can be attributed to three factors: political support in Orissa, dynamic
leadership and dedicated staff of the Resettlement and Rehabilitation Unit (RRU), and constant
pressure from the Bank to improve the program. The RRU prepared a new cluster-based family-
oriented rehabilitation action plan (CBFORAP) in 1995 for further improvements. The
implementation and success of the CBFORAP will have to be assessed after an interval of several
years.
Summary Implementation Record
8.    Project preparation by the Bank began in January 1981 and pre-appraisal took place in
September 1981. Work had already begun on access roads and preliminary excavation of the
major works. A second pre-appraisal took place in early 1982 and included an independent
review of project design by three external consultants, who were required to confirm the safety,
cost-effectiveness, and predicted performance of the project's major structures.
9.    The project was appraised in October 1982 by a three-person Bank team, even though the
revisions to the construction schedule and cost estimate arising from the experts' review were not
complete. The final implementation schedule was reviewed during technical discussions
preceding loan negotiations in March 1983 and was found to be reasonable and achievable. No
resettlement expert or environmentalist participated in appraisal. These aspects of the project
received superficial coverage until late 1986.
10.   At negotiations in March 1983, the Indian delegation provided Bank staff with a note on
the Government of Orissa's rehabilitation policy for displaced persons and this was found to be
satisfactory. The 1979 Government of India environmental clearance was also furnished at
negotiations and Bank staff found it satisfactory.
11.   In May 1983, the Board simultaneously approved a loan for US$ 156.4 million and an
IDA Credit of SDR 156 million, together representing 68% of the project cost. Formalities for
loan/credit effectiveness were completed by early September 1983.



- 3 -
12.   The IBRD loan was canceled in December 1991, with only the front-end fee having been
disbursed. The IDA Credit was fully disbursed in March 1995 and closed in June 1995 after four
extensions.
13.   The project immediately suffered delays in implementation. By late 1984, it was a year
behind schedule and two years behind schedule by 1986, largely due to delays in procurement. A
further year had been lost by late 1990, due to the slow pace of construction. These delays
cannot be considered as exceptional, given the context (para. 26). Several key project
components suffered substantial damage in a severe flood in 1991 which halted construction.
After an assessment of the time needed to repair the flood damage, it was estimated that the first
unit could be brought into service in late 1995, i.e., seven years late. This also proved to be
infeasible. In March 1995 when the final disbursement from the IDA Credit took place, the
project was over two-thirds complete. There has been little progress since then due to lack of
funds to continue construction. The completion of the Upper Indravati project was threatened by
the lack of funds up to March 1996, when Orissa secured Rs 3,200 million completion financing
from PFC. 1998 would appear to be a feasible target date for completion. In spite of the extra-
ordinary problems and delays, the project is still projected to provide power at a highly attractive
rate (at less than 50 per cent of the cost of electricity from new base-load thermal stations) and
remains a priority component in the Orissa/Eastern region power system. OHPC's challenge is to
realize this potential by completing the Upper Indravati project, for which it now has the
necessary funding.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT PERFORMANCE
Factors not Subject to Government Control
14.   Design. Prior to appraisal, the Bank's consultants who reviewed the project were
concerned about the risk of sedimentation as the water intake structure to the headrace tunnel was
close to the point at which the Indravati River enters the reservoir. After appraisal, it was decided
that studies of sedimentation (and a few other issues) as "less urgent matters having relatively
little effect on the cost estimate or the construction schedule will be pursued as work proceeds".
However, there did not appear to have been an attempt to reconsider the location of the
powerhouse or the headrace tunnel (perhaps this was regarded to be no longer an option). This
was confirmed as a major flaw in project design in the 1993 assessment of the project's
engineering and construction. It apparently arose from the attempt to minimize the length of the
headrace tunnel and thereby keep down capital costs. Remedial structures have since been
planned to protect the intake so as to minimize the entry of abrasive material which would
otherwise damage the turbines. They remain to be examined and designed using a physical model
- and their actual effectiveness cannot be confirmed till these structures and the power plant are
actually in operation.
15.   Engineering Consultants. The Central Water Commission (CWC) was the Government
of Orissa's engineering consultant for all civil works. However, the Orissa government had no
control or leverage over CWC as it is a central Government agency. Inadequate and delayed
engineering services, particularly the delivery of design drawings by CWC also contributed to the



slow pace of project execution. In mid-1987, CWC indicated that it was overloaded and could
not provide more support to the project. CWC staff were reluctant to be posted to a remote area
and visits from Delhi were infrequent as only rail travel (which took over 2 days) was authorized.
Despite repeated efforts during 1987-90 on the part of the Orissa government and the Bank to
obtain better service, CWC was unable to give satisfaction in this area. The Bank then
recommended replacement of CWC and offered to finance the services of other consultants in
place of CWC, but apparently at that time Government of India regulations only allowed CWC or
CEA to be employed as consultants on Government-owned projects. Today, CWC feels that it
was being asked to provide support to the project that was beyond its mandate and for which it
did not have adequate resources. However, it does not appear to have made this clear to the
Orissa government or to the Bank at the time.
16.   Poor Contractor Performance. The decision by the Orissa government (accepted by the
Bank) to award contracts to firms who had submitted unrealistically low bids for construction of
Muran Dam, intake and headrace tunnel, penstocks and the tailrace channel also contributed to
the slow pace of work prior to the 1991 flood. Most of the poorly-performing contractors were
public sector undertakings and apparently suffered from lack of funds to carry out the works at an
acceptable rate. Some had little equipment and were little more than agents to manage unskilled
manual laborers. At appraisal, the Bank had accepted that bidders would be free to adopt
whatever construction method they chose. This was not conducive to ensuring rapid and efficient
construction.
17.   In early 1986, the Orissa government had proposed disqualification of the lowest bidder
for the headrace tunnel on the grounds of unsatisfactory performance in other tunnel projects and
on the basis of being overloaded with too many other contracts. However, the Bank rejected this
proposal because the bidder had been pre-qualified and the Orissa government had not provided
sufficient documentary evidence to support these claims. In late 1989, the Bank suggested
terminating the contract as the Orissa government's reservations about the contractor proved to
be justified, although by now the Orissa government was reluctant to do so.
Factors Subject to Government Control
18.  Implementation Schedule. With hindsight, it is clear that the original implementation
schedule agreed with the Bank during project appraisal was overly optimistic. It envisaged
commissioning of the first unit in late 1988, barely five years after the credit/loan became
effective. For a project of this magnitude and complexity, situated in a remote area poorly served
by transport and communications, such a tight schedule was not realistic. It did not take account
of the time required to prepare tender documents acceptable to the Bank, the risk of encountering
geotechnical problems, and the capabilities of local civil works contractors. The Orissa
government's own recent experience with the construction of the Balimela, Upper Kolab and
Rengali hydro projects, which also suffered implementation delays, should have served to inject
greater realism on all sides at the time of appraisal.
19.   Changes in Project Costs and Financing. The final cost of the project is not yet known.
It was initially expected to cost Rs 4,800 million (in 1982 prices) or about US$ 507 million at the
prevailing exchange rate. The latest OHPC estimate is Rs about 11,200 million (in current early-



- 5 -
1996 prices). As this estimate or year-by-year expenditures were not available at the time of the
ICR mission, a detailed constant price comparison could not be made, but the total cost of the
project is expected to be well below US$500 million.
20.   About Rs 6,500 million has so far been spent and the balance, about Rs 4,700 million
(about US$ 135 million), represents the unfinished portion of the project. OHPC secured in
March 1996 Rs 3,200 million completion financing from PFC and will provide the balance from
its internal cash generation. OHPC's challenge is to complete the Upper Indravati project, for
which it now has the necessary funding.
21.   Institutional Arrangements. In mid- 1990, the new Orissa state government decided to
split the Irrigation and Department into two. Responsibility for the project was to be shared by
two new departments, Energy (DOE) and Irrigation (DOI). The Bank felt that this created
coordination problems which delayed decision-making and further complicated project
management, and urged the Orissa government to place responsibility for the project under a
single administrative unit, namely the Department of Energy, with the Department of Irrigation
assuming full and single responsibility of the downstream irrigation project. The Orissa
government agreed to do so in August 1991, but implementation of the decision did not take
place - formally till late- 1992 and never in practice - as DOI was reluctant to give up its role. The
decision to split the Irrigation and Power Department and the ensuing uncertainty had an adverse
impact on the project. Many project staff were not legally transferred to DOE, but remained DOI
staff temporarily on deputation to the project. The exclusion of DOI from any formal
involvement with the project may also have given rise to difficulties within the Orissa government.
22.   Setting up of the Construction Management Organization (CMO). The process of
reaching agreement on terms of reference, bidding, evaluation of proposals and contract
negotiations took about two years from mid-1991. This length of time was mainly due to the
innovative and somewhat controversial approach that was adopted on advice from the Bank,
whereby consultants were directly responsible for project implementation. However, many
DOE/staff did not genuinely endorse this approach, even after it was introduced. The fact that
Orissa had in the past and was at the same more successfully (though with time and cost
overruns) implementing similar projects contributed to the unwillingness to accept and utilize
external assistance for the project. While the induction of consultants was intended to improve
project management and the quality and pace of implementation, the selection process was
lengthy due to the Orissa government reluctance. It also diverted efforts away from project
implementation itself during a period that was already disrupted by the bifurcation of the
Department of Irrigation and Power.
23.   The CMO was nominally in charge of Upper Indravati Hydroelectric Project for about two
years from mid-1993 onwards. There does not appear to have been an appreciable increase in the
pace of project implementation during this period. The CMO was unable to effectively carry out
the objectives defined in the TOR. However, the large backlog of outstanding claims by
contractors was disposed of, project documentation was improved and DOE delegated some
authority to the counterpart Owner's Project Management Organization to facilitate decision-
making.



- 6 -
24.   There are numerous reasons why the CMO did not live up to expectations. The Orissa
government did not give adequate support to the new CMO. The Orissa government Project
Administrator did not make available sufficient resources required by the CMO to carry out the
tasks specified in the TOR. Fee payments to the consultants were unduly delayed and staff posted
to the project were slow to receive logistical assistance. The eleven month interval between the
receipt of proposals and contract signature meant that a large proportion of consulting staff
originally identified for the assignment were no longer available. It also appears that working
relations between project staff and consulting firm staff were not ideal for the success of the
CMO. The arrangement between the foreign consulting firm and a local partner which was
viewed positively by the Orissa government at the time of evaluation of the proposals (as a means
of technology transfer and cost minimization), also proved to be problematical due to the public
sector background and caliber of the local consulting firm staff. DOE staff found that the
consultants were often obliged to refer matters back to their headquarters for review/approval and
that the response time was sometimes inordinately long.
25.   Panel of Experts The Project Agreement only required Orissa to carry out periodic safety
inspections of the major civil works after construction, although the SAR indicated that a Board
of Consultants had been appointed to review designs and provide advice during construction. The
first meeting of this Board, hereafter called the Panel of Experts (POE), took place in September
1984. It has met on twenty occasions or roughly every six months since then. The composition
of the POE has changed extensively during the past 11 years, although the same Chairman has
presided throughout. The Bank was dissatisfied with the choice of members in the early years as
it was dominated by retired Central Water Commission/Central Electricity Authority (CEA) staff.
This was felt to be incompatible with the need to ensure objectivity in the POE's scrutiny of work
done by CWC and CEA as the Orissa government's consultants. In addition, most POE members
were generalists and certain highly specialized disciplines were not represented on the panel.
Under Bank pressure, the Orissa government agreed to appoint internationally known specialists
to strengthen the POE in areas such as engineering geology, foundation engineering and
sedimentation. This proved to be a positive measure, enhancing the quality of the advice given by
the POE. However, on several critical issues like remedial measures to control the entry of
sediment to the power plant, the POE was slow to address the problems and to reach a consensus
on required actions. The sedimentation issue was first examined by the POE in 1987, but its final
recommendations on action to be taken were not issued till 1995. The POE should also have
looked into the adequacy of the coffer dam upstream of the water intake that gave way in 1991,
especially as its design was not the responsibility of CWC.
26.   Procurement Delays. The Orissa government's own procurement process was slow.
Additional time was lost by repeated reviews and revisions of bid documents and/or evaluations
before obtaining World Bank clearance to proceed with tendering or contract award. For
example, over nine months elapsed between receipt by the Bank of draft tender documents for
three dams and a tunnel and granting of the final clearance after multiple revisions had been made.
This was initially due to unfamiliarity with Bank procurement procedures and difficulties in
communication with the project site where no telephone or radio link had been set up, despite
repeated Bank reminders. Bank suggestions that consultants be hired to assist in preparation of
bid documents were not acted upon. Nor was there a policy to use Bank-approved standard



bidding documents. The quality of bid evaluation reports produced by the Orissa government was
poor and some required modification before Bank approval was granted. In later years, delays
may have been aggravated by changes in project management/procurement staff, with a resulting
loss of familiarity with Bank requirements. On only one occasion, the time required for Bank
clearance was unusually long, due to a delay in replacing the task manager.
27.   Resettlement Planning and Implementation. Although OMS 2.33, which was issued in
1980, specifies that detailed resettlement planning is required before the negotiation of the project
loan, in the case of this project no such planning was carried out till much later. The Bank only
decided to seek an assurance in the project agreement requiring Orissa to formulate a resettlement
plan at least two years before submergence and to implement it thereafter.
28.   The first Bank resettlement specialist did not visit the project site till late 1986 and found
that no Rehabilitation Action Plan (RAP) had been prepared. The first RAP was prepared in mid-
1987, and after Bank review a second one was prepared in 1988, but the Bank's review of this
RAP still found it to be unsatisfactory as compensation terms were excessively cash-based.
Nevertheless, a first phase of resettlement was carried out by the Orissa government in 1989.
29.   The Resettlement and Rehabilitation Unit (RRU) was finally set up in late 1989, although
the Bank had been urging the creation of such a unit since late 1986. A third RAP was issued in
mid-1991, but this also failed to meet the Bank's approval, and disbursements were suspended on
June 28, 1991. Finally, in early 1992, after nearly 70% of the Displaced Persons (DPs), had
already been resettled in three annual phases, the Bank formally approved the fourth RAP. The
financial value of the resettlement package was increased to Rs 40,600 per DP in 1993 and
retroactive entitlement was granted to those resettled in previous years under less favorable
conditions. Progress since then has been satisfactory.
30.   Results of Resettlement. In total, the resettlement of 5,448 DPs from 65 villages to be
submerged took place over the 1989-93 period. This total actually represents nearly 17,000
individuals because the term DP as defined by the Orissa government is an amalgam of individuals
and families. In addition to nuclear families with minor children, it includes male children over 18,
orphans, divorcees, widows and the handicapped, all of whom are counted as if they were a
separate family. The DPs settled in 560 widely scattered locations they themselves selected, often
for proximity to their relatives and/or access to forests. Only 166 cluster villages containing 10 or
more DPs were set up. The package of relocation assistance was progressively improved during
that period and the improved terms were made available retroactively to those resettled in the
early years. Initially, the Orissa government offered DPs land in an area far from the affected
area. Following overwhelming refusal by DPs of these terms, the Orissa government agreed to
allow the DPs to relocate to sites of their own choice and provided funds for them to purchase
land. Resettlement took place entirely voluntarily and peacefully and with the active support of
the RRU which provided transport, food and medical care during the moves. The quality of
construction of the new homes of DPs and other basic infrastructure is much better than those
found in the host villages.
31.   A program of social infrastructure in all cluster villages has been completed. 194 tube
wells, 42 open wells 39 tanks, 28 school buildings and 72 link roads have been provided. The



- 8 -
provision of fuel-efficient stoves is underway. There has been a dramatic increase in land
ownership amongst DPs. Today, 5212 DPs (96%) own 4929 acres of irrigated land and 8049
acres of unirrigated land, equivalent to an average of 3.4 acres of unirrigated land per DP. Also,
4119 (76%) now have holdings above the Orissa government norm of 2.5 acres of unirrigated
land. Prior to resettlement, only 14% of DPs owned land. Nevertheless, over 40% of DPs also
continue to cultivate other land under various tenurial arrangements. Those DPs who have
resettled close to their former land holdings also continue to cultivate them as these lands have yet
to be submerged. Unfortunately, the choice of locations in which the vast majority of DPs have
resettled means that they will never have access to the irrigation benefits from the project.
32.   The lack of a base line survey of the DPs prior to resettlement makes it almost impossible
to assess changes in their standards of living since displacement. The project affected area is in
one of the least developed regions of Orissa and nearly 60% of the DPs belong to either scheduled
castes or tribes, who are the poorest categories of the general population. It can, therefore, be
reasonably assumed that the majority of DPs were below the government-defined poverty line of
per capita income of Rs 2,800 per annum prior to resettlement. A recent socio-economic survey
of DPs has revealed that over 60% of DPs continue to supplement their incomes from cultivation
by the collection and/or sale of forest products. Despite continuing access to forest resources, the
survey estimated that 70% are currently below the poverty line, as against 44% of the state
population as a whole. While these data provide no clue as to changes since resettlement, they
provide a benchmark to assess future changes. The RRU prepared a new cluster-based family-
oriented rehabilitation action plan (CBFORAP) in 1995 improve the living standards of DPs. It is
based on the individually-expressed needs of the DPs. The RAP will provide DPs with the
resources to expand income generating activities. It will also have an explicit component to assist
women as they were disproportionately affected by the reduced access to forest products and by
the lack of access to resettlement funds which were channeled exclusively to men. The
implementation and success of the CBFORAP will have to be assessed after an interval of several
years.
Factors Subject to Implementing Agency Control
33.   Inadequate SafetyMeasures. The aide-memoire ofthe Bank supervision mission of
October 1990 called to the attention of the project authorities, CWC and POE, that arrangements
are to be made before June 1991 against risk of water entering the headrace tunnel during the next
floods. However, these arrangements were not implemented in time to avoid the disaster which
occurred when the uncompacted earth cofferdam protecting the intake and headrace tunnel gave
way in July 1991, under pressure from unusually heavy monsoon rains. Water surged down the
penstock slope and through the headrace tunnel and the sediment and boulder-laden flood ripped
through the powerhouse. Warehouses containing electrical and mechanical equipment were
flooded and some equipment was damaged beyond repair. The flood brought work on the power
complex to a halt.



34.   Apart from the loss of 25 construction workers' lives, the physical damage and resulting
repairs were a major setback to the project both in terms of time and cost. A further two-year
delay in project completion can be attributed to the flood.
35.   An additional Rs 100 million (US$ 3 million) had to be spent to repair uninsured civil
works. The cost of repairs to the electromechanical equipment (which had to be sent back to the
manufacturer in Japan) was estimated to be Rs 280 million (US$ 9 million). The Bank, which had
financed the initial purchase of the equipment, agreed in principle to fund these repairs as
insurance cover was inadequate. However, the contract was signed without prior Bank clearance,
so IDA was unable to reimburse the Orissa government for the cost of the repairs. An insurance
claim of Rs 590 million (US$ 19 million) has been filed for the damage to electromechanical
equipment. However, the actual reimbursement is likely to be far less, as the assets were not
insured at replacement cost and there has been a very sharp appreciation of the yen since the
original equipment was purchased.
36.   Impact on Project Implementation. The flood damage gave rise to serious concerns
within the Bank about the quality of engineering and construction and the safety of the dams
under construction. It was a major factor influencing the decision to cancel the IBRD loan from
which no funds had yet been drawn. Since substantial disbursements could be justified only after
a safety and engineering soundness evaluation and the project reorganization and reactivation, the
Bank canceled the still completely unused US$156 million Ln. 2278-IN in December. The IDA
Credit was extended to finance resettlement, consulting services for the soundness assessment and
project management and some civil works, following confirmation of the Project's soundness by
the external engineering consultant review. It was also agreed that four ongoing civilmechanical
works contracts would be terminated and the remaining balance of works be clubbed together in a
single package suitable for ICB to attract reputable international firms and to permit World Bank
financing. However, without consulting the Bank, the Orissa government decided to separate the
penstock erection from the rest and directly awarded a contract to its own construction
corporation, which the Bank felt lacked adequate expertise in this area. This decision undermined
the single-contract balance of works approach. It also left commissioning of the power plant
vulnerable to undue risk of further delay arising from the inexperience of the contractor in
penstock erection. At that point, the Bank could have canceled a sum equivalent to the value of
this contract from the IDA Credit on grounds of misprocurement but this was not done. Instead,
the whole Ln. 2278-IN was canceled.
37.   The ICB process for the remaining components in the balance-of-works contract took
over two years, an excessive length of time, despite assistance from external consultants. Work
on these project components could not continue once the contracts of the poorly-performing
contractors had been terminated. The additional implementation delay arising from the inability to
carry out the bidding process in a timely way illustrates the lack of urgency to take remedial
action to complete the project. By the time the contract was ready to be awarded the project had
run out of funds with Cr. 13 56-IN having been depleted - and a procurement technicality would
have prevented Bank financing of the contract in any case. OHPC secured in March 1996 Rs
3,200 million completion financing from PFC. OHPC's challenge is to complete the Upper
Indravati project, for which it now has the necessary funding.



- 10 -
38.   OSEB Finances. At appraisal, it was envisaged that OSEB would take over and operate
the project upon completion. A full financial analysis of OSEB was carried out by the Bank and
several financial covenants on OSEB's performance were incorporated in the Project Agreement.
During the past twelve years OSEB was rarely - up to very recently - able to comply with these
covenants.
39.   Measures to strengthen OSEB's accounting suffered a four year delay as the new uniform
commercial accounting system expected in 1985 was introduced in 1989. There was an average
two year delay in submitting OSEB's audited accounts in the mid-1980s. The delay was brought
down to 18 months in mid 1990s. FY94 accounts were submitted six months late. Unaudited
statements for FY95 were received in December 1995.
40.   OSEB was to limit its accounts receivable to three months billings. This target was not
achieved till 1995 - by writing off arrears accumulated over the years finally admitted to be
uncollectable. During the decade prior to 1994 they were always in excess of four months and
had risen to over six months in mid-1992. This inevitably had a serious impact on OSEB's cash
flow, with the result that its payables for power purchases at that time were equivalent to 24
months purchases.
41.   OSEB was to make a contribution to investment of at least 20% of average annual capital
expenditures; it was not achieved from FY84 through FY89 when OSEB incurred losses as tariff
increases failed to keep up with inflation. The target was met in FY90, but only because OSEB
had a very low level of investments and in FY94, with the help of the payment of a large subsidy
by the Orissa government to cover uncollectible receivables. The covenanted level was exceeded
in FY95 and is estimated to be exceeded also in FY96. Investment levels, however, have
remained well below what is projected to be required to rehabilitate the system and meet future
needs.
42.   At appraisal, it was apparent that OSEB's energy losses at about 20% of generation were
unacceptably high and that metering was inadequate. A loan covenant required OSEB to prepare
a program to control energy losses and to implement it from FY 84-85. The Bank's financial
projections were based on a reduction of losses to 16%. The first plan to reduce Transmission
and Distribution (T&D) losses was found to be unsatisfactory and stated energy losses rose to
24% in 1987. A second plan was made in 1989, but had no impact on losses. Then in 1992, the
Bank realized that the situation was far worse than previously believed as OSEB's auditors
estimated that losses in FY90/91 were 45%, rather than OSEB's own figure of 24%. These huge
losses can be attributed to the Orissa government policy of granting unmetered life-line supply to
poor consumers, flat rate billing by OSEB of customers with defective meters, and increased
pilferage. The difference between these two estimates represents over US$ 50 million in foregone
revenues. In late 1993, a new action plan was proposed and an urgent need for 0.5 million new
meters (approximately half of OSEB total) was identified. These will be provided - and the Orissa
power system rehabilitated - under the Orissa Power Sector Restructuring Project.



D. SUSTAINABILITY
43.   Since the project is unfinished, it is not possible to draw final conclusions on its
sustainability. If completed satisfactorily, it is likely that the project will generate power and
provide water for irrigation. In spite of the extra-ordinary problems and delays, the project is still
projected to provide power at a highly attractive rate (at less than 50 per cent of the cost of
electricity from new base-load thermal stations) and remains a priority component in the
Orissa/Eastern region power system. OHPC's challenge is to realize this potential by completing
the Upper Indravati project, for which it now has the necessary funding.
Power Sector Reforms
44.   In 1992, the Orissa government took steps to improve OSEB's performnance through an
Operational and Financial Action Plan (OFAP) drawn up with assistance from PFC. Later that
year, the Bank offered to finance consultants to assist the Orissa government with a review of the
organization of the power sector. During supervision of the Upper Indravati Project in 1993, it
became apparent that the Orissa government was prepared to consider more fundamental sectoral
reforms. Intensive discussions both within the Orissa government as well as with the Bank
culminated in the November 1993 announcement of a complete sectoral restructuring that
involved splitting OSEB into generation, transmission and distribution companies. This was
effected on April 1, 1996. OSEB's only thermal plant was sold to NTPC. The privatization of
electricity distribution is to follow, in four stages by the year 2000. Hydro plants and the ongoing
Upper Indravati project were transferred from the government and OSEB to a new company, the
Orissa Hydro Power Corporation (OHPC), on April 1, 1996. On the basis of the Orissa
government's sectoral policy declaration, the Bank in 1993 started the preparation of a project to
assist the reform program. Orissa Power Sector Restructuring Project was finally approved on
May 14, 1996. It was also envisaged that the resulting project would include funds for OHPC for
the completion of Upper Indravati, but this did not materialize. Details are given in Appendix C.
45.   The fact that under the Upper Indravati project, the Bank and the Orissa government had
an ongoing dialogue on the problems of OSEB meant that the Bank was able to actively assist the
Orissa government in the early stages of formulating its ambitious and sweeping sectoral reforms.
The Bank's offer to fund the preparatory work resolved a potential obstacle over funding of
external consultants - subsequently the British Overseas Development Administration agreed to
provide grant financing. While it is too early to judge the eventual outcome of the reforms, they
have the potential of bringing very substantial benefits to Orissa. It is clear that there is now
within the Orissa government a strong commitment and willingness to tackle fundamental power
sector problems with a resolve that was absent in the case of the management problems that have
plagued the Upper Indravati project - and the Bank approved the Orissa Power Sector
Restructuring Project to support Orissa's pioneering reform program. Within the Government of
India and the main sources of finance for India's power sector, there is increasing agreement on
the key components of the Orissa program being the essential elements of any state power reform
program - substantial tariff adjustments, independent regulation, privatization of distribution, and
corporatization, commercialization and private sector participation in the other parts of the power



- 12 -
systems. This bodes well for the replication of this (Ln. 4014-IN) type of projects in other states.
However, even with growing recognition of the bankruptcy of the state power sector, political
constraints remain formidable. Nevertheless, there is no alternative to such fundamental reforms.
E. BANK'S PERFORMANCE
46.   Project appraisal was insufficiently thorough in resettlement and rehabilitation aspects
(para. 27), but these shortcoming were successfully corrected during the project implementation
and supervision (paras. 30-32). In contrast, all major design and project management issues
raised in this ICR were clearly recognized and examined during project preparation, but some
were consciously (this can be stated as the decisions were documented) not addressed and were
not incorporated in the project design and implementation arrangements. The agreed
implementation schedule was unrealistic (para. 18). In the area of project management, there
was a documented management override of the appraisal team's technical judgment (para. 47). In
the areas of design (including intake location and sedimentation) and implementation (including
the approval of manual construction methods) there is no evidence of a similar management
override, on the contrary. Documents on file show that the appraisal team was generally satisfied
with the project and had no problem with the construction methods or with deferring
sedimentation work to a later date. Undoubtedly the team did not expect that the sedimentation
work would only commence in the early 1990s.
47.   The Bank did not act upon the appraisal team's concerns regarding project management
which were contained in the Issues Paper. It expressed reservations about project management
capabilities, and in particular construction planning, procurement programming, contract
management, project cost control, project accounting and the associated reporting to
management. It recommended an external review of project management and accounting
arrangements and the appointment of a management team satisfactory to the Bank prior to
negotiations. However, the decision meeting in December 1982 diluted these recommendations,
referring to the Government's sensitivity to Bank approval of its personnel decisions. Instead, it
was agreed that the Bank should adopt an approach in which greater emphasis is placed upon the
functions and tasks of Orissa's project team, and on project implementation requirements.
Although Government of India was advised that the receipt of a consultant's report on project
management would be a condition of negotiations, this was waived. The minutes of negotiations
held in late March 1983 record that the Indian delegation only provided Bank staff with a copy of
the TOR for the review. Receipt of the report then became a condition of effectiveness and
implementation of its recommendations, a loan covenant. Three years later, these
recommendations had not yet been fully implemented. With hindsight, it is evident that the while
the appraisal team correctly identified the risks to satisfactory project implementation arising from
weak project management, adequate safeguards were not insisted upon by the Bank.
Suspension of Disbursements
48.   Notice of intention to suspend disbursements was first issued in February 1987 for
unsatisfactory performance in a wide variety of areas. A second notice was issued in January
1988, mainly due to delays in auditing OSEB's accounts. A third notice became necessary in



- 13 -
August 1990 because of lack of progress on resettlement issues. However, the actual suspension
of disbursements was not carried out in any of these cases as the Bank accepted partial progress
on the outstanding issues as proof of the Orissa government commitment to improving project
implementation. Nevertheless, the project was continuously rated either 3 or 4 from 1986
onwards.
49.   Shortly before the original loan closing date of June 30, 1991, the Bank recommended
replacement of engineering consultants (CWC) and non-performing contractors employed on the
headrace tunnel, penstock, Muran dam and the tail-race channel. At the same time, it was
indicated to the Orissa government that extending the closing date would also depend on
improved handling of resettlement issues. Insufficient progress was reported and disbursements
were suspended with effect from June to December 1991. The delegation of full responsibility for
project management to an international consulting firm was later added as a condition for lifting
the suspension of disbursements.
50.   A second suspension of disbursements took place from August to December 1993,
although a partial lifting was granted from mid-October to cover payments for resettlement and
technical assistance. The suspension was due to unsatisfactory progress in the areas of project
management, the resettlement and rehabilitation program, and OSEB's financial performance.
The suspension was lifted and the closing date of the Credit extended, as the engineering and
construction soundness was established, CMO was initiated, the R&R program was making
encouraging progress and the work on addressing OSEB's fundamental problems was launched.
Supervision
51.   Inadequate resources were devoted to supervision in the first three years of
implementation (44 SW, or under 15 SW/year in FY84 through FY86). However, there was a
sharp increase to an average of 41 SW over the remaining eight years. It appears that the Bank
was not sufficiently aware of the OSEB's weakness in its commercial functions till the last few
years of the project (para. 42). This may have been due to the limited participation of financial
analysts in supervision missions, particularly during the first 6 years of project implementation
when a financial analyst participated in only 50% of the supervision missions. Thereafter the
participation rate rose, but only to 70%. Resettlement experts participated in supervision
intensively from late 1986.
Future Assistance for Project Completion
52.   From late 1991 onwards, the Bank had indicated willingness to consider additional
funding to replace the canceled Ln. 2278-IN and help complete the project as soon as the
project's management and engineering and construction soundness issues are resolved.
Reorganization of the Upper Indravati Project turned out to be a painstaking endeavor, taking
substantially longer than expected. But while the reorganization process was finally substantially
completed, various primarily environmental concerns led to further requirements to be met prior
to considering Bank funding for the remaining items. As part of the preparation of envisaged
Bank financing for project completion, a new full Environmental Impact Assessment of the
project was carried out. This study was completed in mid-1994, and along with the engineering



- 14 -
soundness review (para. 14), revealed deficiencies in various engineering and environmental
aspects of the project.
53.   Bank funding for project completion had to be deferred and was delinked in early 1995
from the proposed Orissa Power Sector Restructuring Project. Future Bank participation in
project completion was made dependent on the resolution of such pending issues as sedimentation
control and mitigation at the power station and reservoir, penstock construction, and the
mitigation of potential environmental impacts caused by an irrigation emergency bypass.
Financing to support mitigation measures, namely watershed management and R&R, was retained
in the scope. But after OHPC secured completion financing from PFC, Orissa and the
Government of India no longer sought Bank financing for the watershed management and R&R
programs, which do not feature in the final scope of the Orissa Power Sector Restructuring
Project.
Overall Assessment
54.   There were weaknesses in the quality of project appraisal, and supervision was inadequate
in the pre-1987 period. The Bank should have been firmer in seeking measures to redress
deficiencies in project implementation prior to 1991. As can be seen from the three instances
when the Bank desisted from formally suspending disbursements (para. 48), there was a tendency
to accept the Orissa government assurances of imminent action in place of real measures. It is
apparent that the Bank's pre- 1991 patience and tolerance of shortcomings in implementation
performance did not help the narrow objective of completing the project as rapidly as possible. It
is also clear, however, that the Bank's new approach pursued from 1991, inter alia pressuring
Orissa to address project management and resettlement deficiencies by canceling Ln. 2278-IN and
withholding completion financing, has not yet yielded the desired results either. Time will tell if
OHPC, the product of a Bank-supported power sector reform program in Orissa, will be able to
successfully complete the project. The Bank is no longer involved in the implementation of the
project. But the need the address the issues raised by the Bank - which led to the Bank
withholding financing - remains. Appendix C of the ICR is included in order to record such issues
and in an attempt to bring them once more to the attention of OHPC and the Orissa government.
(Appendix B records with clear statements that while Orissa appreciates the Bank's active
involvement in the implementation of Orissa's power sector reforms, it strongly disagrees with the
Bank's decision to delink Upper Indravati completion financing from the Orissa Power Sector
Restructuring Project.)
F. BORROWER'S AND IMPLEMENTING AGENCY'S PERFORMANCE
55.   There was a general unwillingness to recognize that such a large and complex project
required exceptional management and engineering skills. In addition, the cost of delays in terms
of foregone revenues or additional costs was given little importance.
56.   The Orissa government was too involved in day-to-day management of the project. The
Orissa government's split of the Irrigation and Power Department then diffused responsibilities
and further weakened project management. Project management lacked autonomy and decision
making authority. At the same time, it was never provided with satisfactory communications



- 15 -
infrastructure, despite its remote location. This compounded the delays arising from the high
degree of the Orissa government involvement in decision-making.
57. --_ Changes in senior Orissa government and project staff were too frequent, but this may
have been an unavoidable consequence of the fact that the project was implemented by a
government department where such promotions/transfers are commonplace. The Panel of Inquiry
into the 1991 flood found project staff to have been negligent in not taking adequate steps to
close the intake to the headrace tunnel. Finally, many project staff did not reconcile themselves to
the post-1993 management structure and were not committed to its goals.
58.   The Orissa government showed little commitment to improving OSEB's performance
during the ten years prior to 1993. Tariff increases were delayed, government subsidies to
compensate for the low tariffs were paid late and the Orissa government arrears for public sector
electricity consumption were allowed to accumulate to unsustainable levels. OSEB itself prior to
1993 made insufficient efforts to improve its accounting and commercial practices. These issues
are only now being addressed.
59.   The performance of the Borrower was thus found to be deficient in project design,
management arrangements and in implementation. However, there are positive indications of a
new resolve to pursue fundamental sector reforms (paras. 44-45). The implementation of the
reform program and the establishment of OHPC have already helped Orissa secure completion
financing for the project. OHPC's challenge is to successfully complete the project.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
60.   Upper Indravati is an unfinished project. Meanwhile repayment of the IDA Credit has
already begun. This is an unsatisfactory interim outcome. However, this assessment will have to
be revisited upon physical completion of the project. In spite of the extra-ordinary problems and
delays, the project is still projected to provide power at a highly attractive rate and remains a
priority component in the Orissa/Eastern region power system. Far-reaching reforms to the
power sector as a whole have begun, and may prove to have highly positive effects. As a part of
the reform program, the Upper Indravati project has been transferred from the state government
to OHPC. Its challenge is to complete the project, for which it now has the necessary funding.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
61.   Responsibility for the project has been formally handed over by the state government to
OHPC. Once completed, OHPC will also operate the project. OHPC is operating Orissa's other
hydro projects and is expected to be able to operate the Upper Indravati as well. A complete
range of institution building support is being provided to OHPC under the Orissa Power Sector
Restructuring Project.



- 16 -
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
* The design and quality of project management arrangements is probably the single most
important element for successful and timely project implementation. The Bank should not
agree to support projects where such fundamental conditions are not satisfied.
* Dependence on design and engineering consultants such as Central Water Commission
(CWC) who are not answerable to the project owner should be avoided.
* Important engineering issues such as anti-sedimentation measures should be resolved at
the time of project appraisal or as soon as possible thereafter.
*  Competitive bidding can result in award of contracts to public sector firms who submit
unrealistically low bids. More rigorous prequalification and bid evaluation may help to
prevent this.
* The successful use of consultants for project management requires a genuine commitment
on the part of the implementing agency and/or project owner, and cooperation by the
consultants' counterparts on the ground. Lack of such support will undermine even the
best of efforts by consultants. Adequate resources should also be provided. Apparent
cost savings achieved by reducing expatriate staff and introducing lower cost but less than
fully qualified local support will be over-shadowed by implementation delays and
difficulties.
* This project was yet another addition to a generally unsuccessful series of Bank operations
in the Indian power sector at the state level, with state electricity boards and their state
governments. But in this case the prospects for addressing the fundamental management
and financial problems - and successfully completing the Upper Indravati project - are
encouraging. Since 1992 the Government of Orissa, OSEB and the Bank have discussed
the issues and possible solutions to Orissa's fundamental power problems. In 1993, the
Government of Orissa and OSEB agreed upon a power sector reform program as the
logical conclusion to these deliberations. The program involves privatization of power
distribution and separation of the power sector from direct government control through
regulatory reforms, corporatization, commercialization and private sector participation.
The Bank approved on May 14, 1996, the Orissa Power Sector Restructuring Project (Ln.
4014-IN) to support Orissa's pioneering reform.



- 17 -
Part II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
A. Achievement of Obiectives           S- bstantiaf       Partial    Neglible    Not   licable
Sector policies                        O              O           O              U
Financial objectives                    O             O           *               O
Institutional objectives               O              O           *              O
Physical objectives                     O             *                          
Poverty Reduction                       O                        *              
Population                              O             O                         U
Resettlement                            *             O           O              O
Public Sector Management.               O             O           *              O
Private Sector Development.             O             O           O              U
B. Project Sustainability */                  Likely           Unlikely          Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                    Highly              Satisfactory            Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                     O                                           El
Preparation assistance             E                     *                      E
Appraisal                          El                   E 
Supervision                        E                    E                      U
D. Borrower Performance                  Highly
Satisfactory       Satisfactory           Deficient
Preparation                         El                   E                      U
Implementation                      El                  El                      U
Covenant compliance                 E                    E                      U
E. Assessment of Outcome */    Highly          Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory   Highly
Satisfactory                                       Unsatisfactory
O                 EO                            El
*/ As of May 1996, the outcome is rated "unsatisfactory" and sustainability is rated "uncertain". However, this
assessment will have to be revisited upon the physical completion of the project. A "satisfactory" ultimate outcome
is feasible, now that OHPC has taken over the project and has secured completion financing. Projected project
viability remains strong and if completed successfully, OHPC is expected to be able to operate and maintain the
project in a sustainable manner. Hence a "likely" ultimate sustainability rating is also feasible. Appendix C
highlights and its attachment elaborates on the remaining key issues threatening successful completion. If
addressed by OHPC, "satisfactory" outcome and "likely" sustainability ratings are expected at project completion.



- 18 -
i:.-.:0:   ....   ...    .. .. .. .  .:... .. .. .   -.0..00000 .. .    ..  L : O R " . 0.   r e  .  ...k
Preceding Operations
There were no preceding operations
related to the Project
Following Operations
Orissa Power Sector Restructuring Project
(Ln. 4014), approved on May 14, 1996
..    .....    ......    ......   ..    -............. ...    ..   .    ......  :... : ::  ..  .   .   T  .  . ...   .... ........... ...  u..... ...   ...  ......  .......   . ........  .......
Date Planned                              Actual
Identification                                                            January 1981
Preparation                                                               April 1981-September 1982
Appraisal                             May 1982                            October 1982
Negotiations                          March 1983                          March 1983
Board Presentation                    May 1983                            May 10, 1983
Signing                               June 1983                           June 8, 1983
Effectiveness                         September 1983                      September 9, 1983
Project Completion                    Mid-1990                            1998 or beyond
Loan Closing                          June 30, 1991                       June 30, 1995
FY 84 FY 85 FY 86 FY 87 FY 88 FY 89 FY 90 FY 91 FY 92 FY 93 FY 94  FY 95
Appraisal
Est. 1/         23.96   50.92  125.79  206.66  263.56  287.52  293.51  299.50
Actual 2/        7.45   13.95   43.29   57.80   69.23   95.50  116.07  129.76  136.46  142.82  148.00   156.00
As % of
estimrate       31.09  27.40   34.41   27.97   26.27   33.22   39.55   43.33
Notes:
1/ The SAR. gave a consolidated disbursement profile for the Loan and Credit together.
2/ Only from the IDA Credit. Only the front-end fee w~as disbursed from the Loan.



19
... .    Table. 5:   ey Indicator$: lbr Proitet Ipmetation
Indicator in SAR                    Estimated                       Projected
Commissioning of 1st unit           Late 1988                       Unlikely before 1999
Other progress indicators           Status
Construction of 4 dams              Three completed, one 75%
Construction of 8 dikes             Completed
Construction of 2 link channels    Excavation completed
Power house                         Civil works completed
Installation of electric equipment  Not yet begun
Penstock erection                   less than 10%
Headrace tunnel                     30% completed
Approach channel                    90% excavated
Surge shaft                         75% excavated
- :Table 6: KeyIndicatorsfaorPrjet00 eration- 
No indicators were defined in the SAR. The project is not yet in operation.
Table 7: Studies Ikt.ded in: hetProjec :   : : :_t_ - .:
Study                   Purpose                  Status                   Impact
Engineering and          Not included in scope of   Completed in early 1994   Project soundness
construction soundness of   original project. Required                     reconfirmed. Led to the
project structures       for Bank to finance                               sedimentation studies,
project completion to                            which in turn are
confirm the quality and                          expected to lead into the
safety of the dams and                           design of technical
related civil works.                             sedimentation control
measures to be
implemented by OHPC.
Environmental Impact     Not included in scope of   Completed in mid-1994    Preparation of integrated
Assessment               original project. Required                        watershed management
for Bank to finance                              programs in 1994-1995.
project completion to                            OHPC has been assigned
confirm environmental                           the responsibility to
acceptability and                                implement them.
formulate required
mitigation measures.



- 20 -
Item                                   Appraisal Estimate              Current Estimat
Rs million   USS million            Rs million
Land etc.                                  153.20           16.13                345.60
Dams and Structures                        896.30          94.35               2295.90
Civil Works -Power                         587.60          61.85                1408.10
Elec. and Mechanical                       752.80          79.24               2181.50
Buildings                                  130.40           13.73               245.50
Roads and Bridges                           62.90           6.62                 198.70
Tools and Plant                             32.90            3.46                62.40
Energy and Services                         55.20            5.81                322.90
Engineering and Admin.                     308.90           32.52               822.60
SUB-TOTAL                                 2980.20         313.71               7883.20
Physic. Contingencies                      420.00          44.21
Price Contingencies                       1150.00          121.05               788.30
SUB-TOTAL                                 4550.20         478.97               8671.50
Customs Duties                             259.80          27.35                245.00
Front-end Fee                                3.80           0.40                   3.80
Resettlement.                                                                   251.00
Telecoms                                                                         189.60
TOTAL                              4813.80          506.72               9360.90
Notes:
The above 1993/94 estimate was the latest available at the time of the ICR mission. It was revised
upwards by about Rs, 1,040 million by OHPC in April 1996 by including additional items and
compensation for delays (Appendix B).
It comprises actual expenditures since 1981 and projected costs to complete the project.
A exact US dollar equivalent cannot be given as year-to-year figures were not available.
~~~~~~~~~~.... .::::"''"'.' - ' : - ' " ' : " ' ' ' " " ' : - ' : : - ' : ' : : ' " ' ' ' " , ' ' ' " - : '"-"'";''':'...,..   ":'''.'"':''"':'
Sources of Funds                        A Apraisal Estimate         Cu::  rrent Estimate
IDA                                                 170.0                  199.0 a!
IBRD                                                156.4 
Cofinancing
Government of Orissa & OHPC                         152.6                  110.0 b/
Power Finance Corporation                              --93.0
TOTAL c/                                          479.0                  402.0 e/
a! actual disbursements converted to US dollars.
b/ past by 600 (about US$65 million), future expenditures by OHPC (about US$45 million)
c/ excluding taxes and duties



- 21 -
The ERR on the project was not recomputed due to the unfinished nature of the project,
the abisence of firm cost data and the uncertainty of the completion date.
Section            0 Sfats     Oriinal Da    - zDesrpion                C.      met
3.01l(a)     1      CD         Annually         Submission of project
______   _____ ______ accounts
3.02         5      C          --Periodic safety inspection of  Construction soundness
dams etc. afler construction   reviewed by consultants in
_____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ 1993-94.
3.03         7      CD         2 years. prior to   Submission of a resettlement  Resettlement was
submergence      plan and implementation    satisfacetorily completed in
___________        _______________  ~schedule                   1993.
3.04         2      CP         Annually from    000 subsidy to OSEB        Not complied with in FY
FY1984           limited to 100/ of revenues.   91-93 due to size of
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   ____         _________ .       .._..                     OSEB    losses.
3.05         13     NYD        --Water releases to be                      Plant not yet completed.
suffcient for peak power at
_ _ _ _ _ _ _                             all  tim es._                  _   _  _   _   _  _
3.06         5     AC          _                Consultants review of
management and accounting
procedures and
implementation of
recommendations. .___________
3.07         13     NYD        By completion    Construction of transmission  Construction has not yet
date of project     lines to evacuate power from   started.
_____                     ~~~~~~~~the  prm ject.     _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _ _
3 08         2,5    NYD        Upon             Transfer of facilities to  000 transferred entire
commissioning    OSEB on specific terms.    project to a new entity,
___ Type   Rams      rinal Date    Descripdon                 OHPC in 1995.
3.1 1(c)     1      CD         Annually within   Submission of OSEB audited  Delay in compliance of
6 months of end   accounts.                 18-24 months.
_____        ~~of FY.
3.12         1,5    CD         Apl 1984         Introduction of commercial   NeC systemintroducedn4
accounting system         years late in 1989.
3.13         2      NC           From FY 1984    OSEB's receivables not to    Not achieved till 1995.
exceed 3      months billings  Previously always above 4
_ _ _ __ _ _ __                  _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ ___     months.
3.14         5      CP         From   Y              s1984    OSEBtopr     and   Plans prepared but losses
implement plan todcut     rose.
_______OEoenergy losses
3.15         2      NC         FromFY983           OSEBtomake a minimum    Onlyachieved in FY 9
20% contribution to       and 94-96
investment



- 22--
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....,,..,,, : ...   ,,.  .  ..,.   . ... . . . . .   . . . . .. .   .. ...... ... .  ..   ... .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . .
Statement/Direefive Name and Number                           Lack of Compliance
O D. 10. 6 Accounting Financial Reporting and                 Submission of audited financial statements was always
Auditing                                                      overdue
O.D. 10.7 Project Monitoring and Evaluation                   Progress reports were not submitted on a regular basis
prior to 1993
O.D. 11 Procurement                                           Penstock erection and electromechanical, equipment,
repair contracts declared ineligible for Bank financing
O.M  S. 2.33/0.D. 4.3 Involuntary resettlement                Detailed resettlement planning required before loan
negotiations not done till a late stage of project
implementation. But with a satisfactory outcome.
: ~~~~~~~.E.    :-..:.:.-.:....:-::--. :......                                          .......   .......  ....   .-...,  --:
Stage of Project Cycle                                  Planned                                Actual
Through Appraisal                                                                                                  41
Appraisal-Board                                                                                                     6
Board-Effectiveness                                                                                                 8
Supervision                                                                                                       396
Completion                                                                10                                        9
TOTAL                                                                                                        460



- 23 -
:.-_ _ _ _ _ _ _   : - _ _ _  : 1 0  1 : :.. : ....   .   : . 4.     i   :
Year           No. of       Days in     Specialization        Performance    Problems
Persons      Field                            Rating_ 
7/83            1                    8  EG                    1               M
3/84            1                    3  EG                    2               M
7/84           2                     16  EG, FA               2               M, T, O
6/85            1                    6  EG                    2               M, F
2/86           2                    10  EG, FA                          __  M, T, F
10/86          3                     8  EG, GEOL, FA          4               M, T, F
3/87           3          _         10  EG (3)                4               M, T, F
10/87          4                    10  EG (2), FA, R         4               F
2/88           2                    14  EG, FA                4               F,O
4/88           2                     10  EG (2)               3               F
10/88          2                     7  EG, FA                3               T, F, 0
3/89           2                    14  EG, R                 4
7/89            1                    7  FA                    4               T, F, O
10/89          3                     7  EG, FA, R             4               0
2/90           3                     7  EG FA, R              3*
7/90           2                     7  R*
11/90          3                    12  EG (3)                3               M,F,
3/91           4                         EG (2) FA, R         4*
8/91                                     EG                   4               I, R, P
3/92           4                    14  EG (3), R             4               I, R, P
10/92          5                    12  EG (3), R, FA         3               M, R
4/93           4                     12  EG (2), R, FA        3
11/93          5                    14  EG (2), FA, R, EC     2
4/94            5                   20  EG, EC, FA, R (2)    S
10/94          5                    14  EG, EC, R (2), EV  S_                 T
6/95            3                   1 1  EG, (3)              U
Special Staff Skills:
EG = Engineer                          EV = Environmental Specialist   GEOL. = Geologist
FA = Financial Analyst                 EC = Economist
R  = Resettlement Specialist           M  = Managerial
T  =Technical                          F = Financial
O  = Other (generally resettlement)    P = Procurement
I = Institutional                      R  = Resettlement



-24-                         APPENDIX A
THE WORLD BANKIIFC/M.I.G.A.
OFFICE MEMORANDUM
DATE:  November 14, 1995
TO: Mr. Jean-Fran,ois Bauer, Chief, SA2EI
FROM:  Sunil Mathrani, Consultant
ENSION:  8-1461
UBJECT: INDIA - Upper Indravati Hydro Project (Cr. 1356-IN)
Aide-memoire
1.    The attached aide-memoire records without comments, the views expressed to me
during my discussions in Orissa last week. I felt that it was worth stating these viewpoints,
as it is unlikely that DOE will prepare anything official giving its own point of view. It is
phrased in language rather more diplomatic than was used by DOE staff during discussions of the
performance of Harza.
2.    Messrs. Nanda, Jamuda and Bohidar (OHPC) attended the wrap-up meeting on November
13, 1995 and were in broad agreement with the contents of the aide-memoire. No significant
modifications were required to the attached draft to reflect their comments.
3.    They felt that the ICR should record that both the Borrower and the Bank performance
during implementation was unsatisfactory. Mr. Nanda asked Mr. Bohidar to revise and
strengthen the ICR that was prepared by UIHP staff and which was sent directly to you.
4.    I was informed that PFC is examining the Orissa government's request for funding to
complete the project, although no formal commitment has yet been obtained from the Orissa
government Finance Ministry to be repaid this fiscal year out of an eventual PFC loan.
5.    Regarding management of the Indravati project, Mr. Nanda suggested that Mr. Bohidar
look for a senior civil engineer to be appointed as a full time OHPC board member in charge of
UIHP.
6.    Following my visit to the project site and meetings with the senior staff there, I also have
some observations on the current situation which may be of interest to you. In substance, there is
a near vacuum at the top of UIHP. Since the departure of Harza and the winding up of the CMO,
the project head (on an acting basis only) is an electrical engineer who is a lightweight and who
does not appear to have much support from his senior colleagues. Management has been further
depleted by the transfer of several senior staff. The transfer of responsibility for the project to
OHPC has yet to be translated into reality as apart from Mr. Bohidar, the latter has no staff or
operating budget.



-25 -                           APPENDIX A
UPPER INDRAVATI HYDRO PROJECT
(Credit 1356-IN)
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank mission comprising Sunil Mathrani (Energy Economist, Consultant) visited
Orissa from 6-13 November 1995. The purpose of the mission was: (i) to obtain information
required to prepare the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on the above project, (ii) to
discuss project implementation experience with Government officials, and (iii) to seek their views
on the performance of all parties involved in the project.
2.    The mission wishes to record its appreciation for the cooperation and assistance rendered
officials of the Department of Energy (DOE), and the UIHP. The mission held discussions with
the Principal Secretary, Additional Secretary, and senior DOE staff, the Chairmen of Orissa State
Electricity Board (OSEB), and Orissa Hydro Power Corporation (OHPC), former DOE Principal
Secretaries, past and present UIHP project administrators and project staff.
3.    This aide memoire summarizes the main findings of the mission and presents some of the
themes to be addressed in more detail in the ICR. It will be reviewed by World Bank
management and should only be considered as official once it has been confirmed by Bank
headquarters.
4.    The mission reiterates the Bank's request that DOE prepare an ICR to express its own
point of view on the project. This would be a valuable complement to the ICR currently under
preparation.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
5.    The project has two main objectives: (i) it will provide a substantial block of low cost
power and energy to help meet the growing electricity needs of Orissa, and (ii) the project will
provide water to irrigate 109,000 ha of cultivable land for which there is no other feasible source
of irrigation. The project objectives continue to be valid, but they will be only be achieved with
considerable delay when the power component and the irrigation complex are completed.
Meanwhile, Orissa is likely to face a shortage of peak generating capacity from 1997-98, which
will have to be covered by higher cost purchases of thermal power. The annual incremental cost
of using thermal power in place of hydroelectricity from the project exceeds Rs 100 crore.
Summary of Costs
6.    The latest available estimate for the total project (excluding irrigation) is Rs 937 crore,
although this may be subject to further upward revision. The 1982 estimate given in the World
Bank appraisal report was Rs 481 crore. The project is now over two-thirds complete but
requires further funding of about Rs 350 crore to be finished.



- 26 -                          APPENDIX A
Implementation Schedule
7.    Construction began in 1979-81 and the World Bank appraisal took place in 1982. The
IDA credit and IBRD loan were simultaneously approved in April 1983. With hindsight, it is
clear that the original implementation schedule agreed with the Bank during project appraisal was
overly optimistic. It envisaged commissioning of the first unit in late 1988, barely five years after
the credit/loan became effective. For a project of this magnitude and complexity, such a tight
schedule was not realistic. The project was two years behind schedule by end-1988 and further
delays then occurred. A further year had been lost even before the 1991 flood. In early 1992 it
was estimated that the first unit could be brought in to service in late 1995, i.e., seven years late.
Today, it is still impossible to give a firm date for this, as the Orissa government does not have
firm financing for the balance of works. However, 1998 would appear to be the earliest feasible.
A twenty-year period from commencement of construction to commissioning of the final unit
seems probable.
Analysis of Factors Affecting Implementation
Procurement delays
8.    The Orissa government's own procurement process was slowed further by repeated
reviews and revisions of bid documents and/or evaluations before obtaining World Bank clearance
to proceed with tendering or contract award. This was initially due to unfamiliarity with Bank
procurement procedures and in later years may have been aggravated by changes in UIHP
management/procurement staff, with a resulting loss of familiarity with Bank requirements. On
several occasions the time required for Bank clearance was also unusually long.
Delays in Obtaining the Orissa Government Counterpart Funding
9.    In the early years of the project, the pace of construction was hindered by delays in
payments to contractors due to inadequate provision for UIHP in the Orissa's government
budget. However, this problem was resolved by the late 1980s and adequate budgetary
provisions were made thereafter.
Role of CWC
10.   Inadequate and delayed engineering services, particularly the delivery of design drawings
by CWC also contributed to the slow pace of project execution. Despite repeated efforts (over a
period of several years), on the part of the Orissa government and the Bank to obtain better
service, CWC was unable to give satisfaction in this area.
1991 Flood
11.   The physical damage and resulting repairs were a major setback to the project both in
terms of time and cost. An additional Rs 10 crore had to be spent to repair uninsured civil works
and an insurance claim of Rs 59 crore has been filed for the damage to electromechanical
equipment. However, due to the appreciation of the yen, the actual reimbursement is likely to be
far less, as the assets were not insured at replacement cost. A further two-year delay in project
completion can be attributed to the flood.



-27 -                           APPENDIX A
Poor Contractor Performance
12.   The decision by the Orissa government (accepted by the Bank) to award contracts to firms
who had submitted unrealistically low bids for construction of Muran dam, intake and headrace
tunnel, penstocks and the tailrace channel also contributed to the slow pace of work prior to the
1991 flood. Contractors apparently suffered from lack of funds to carry out the works at an
acceptable rate. In the aftermath of the flood, it was agreed that these contracts should be
terminated and the remaining balance of works be clubbed together in a single package suitable
for ICB to permit World Bank financing. The ICB process took about two years, during which
time work on these project components could not continue. DOE staff feel that the decision to
terminate these contracts (which was taken at the behest of the Bank) was incorrect and only
added to the delays in project implementation.
Setting up of the Construction Management Organization (CMO)
13.   The process of reaching agreement on terms of reference, bidding, evaluation of proposals
and contract negotiations took about two years. This length of time was mainly due to the
innovative and somewhat controversial approach that was finally adopted, whereby consultants
were directly responsible for project implementation. While the induction of consultants was
intended to improve the quality and pace of implementation, the lengthy selection process diverted
efforts away from project implementation itself to setting up the CMO.
14.   The CMO was in charge of UIHP for about two years from mid-1993 onwards. There did
not appear to have been an appreciable increase in the pace of project implementation during this
period. The mission was informed that working relations between DOE staff and consulting firm
staff were not ideal for the success of the CMO. UIHP staff felt that the Bank should not have
insisted on the placing of consultants in positions of managerial responsibility. They also felt that
the caliber of the staff posted to UIHP by the consultants was one of the reasons why the CMO
did not live up to expectations. DOE staff found that the consultants were often obliged to refer
matters back to their headquarters for review/approval and that the response time was
inordinately long
Deferral of World Bank Supplemental Financing
15.   The late announcement by the Bank that it would no longer be possible to retain the
completion of UIHP in the scope of the forthcoming Orissa Power Sector Restructuring Project
has led to a funding crisis and consequently a major slowdown in construction. While the
contract for the balance of works has been awarded, no mobilization advance has yet been paid,
due to lack of funds. Significant arrears in payments to existing contractors have also built up.
There is a risk that the time required to finalize altemative financing will mean the loss of the
1995-96 dry season for construction. Govemment of India feels that had it known in 1992 that
Bank financing would not be forthcoming, it would have made other funding arrangements not
requiring the use of ICB, which would have enabled work to resume earlier.



- 28 -                           APPENDIX A
Resettlement and Rehabilitation
16.   The resettlement of 5448 displaced persons (DPs) from 65 villages to be submerged to
166 cluster villages took place over the 1989-93 period. The package of relocation assistance
was progressively improved during that period and the improved terms were made available
retroactively to those resettled in the early years. Resettlement took place entirely peacefully and
the DPs relocated to sites of their own choice. This made the task of providing social
infrastructure much more difficult due to the wide dispersion of DPs. However, in all clusters
containing 10 or more DPs, wells, tanks, school buildings and link roads have now been provided.
17.   There has been a dramatic increase in land ownership amongst DPs. Today, 5212 DPs
(96%) own 4929 acres of irrigated land and 8049 ac. of unirrigated land, equivalent to an average
of 3.4 ac. of unirrigated land per DP. Prior to resettlement, only 14% of DPs owned land.
18.   The lack of a base line survey of the DPs prior to resettlement makes it almost impossible
to assess changes in their standard of living since displacement. The choice of sites for cluster
villages made by the vast majority of DPs means that they will never have access to the irrigation
benefits from UIHP. A rehabilitation action plan (RAP) designed to improve living standards of
DPs has been prepared by the RRU and is to be financed by the forthcoming World Bank Power
Sector Restructuring Project. The RAP will help to provide DPs with the resources to expand
income-generating activities.
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
19.   The mission's preliminary conclusions and lessons are given below:
*  The quality of project management is probably the single most important element for
successful and timely project implementation. Weakness in this area accounts for many of
the implementation problems of UIHP.
* Dependence on design and engineering consultants such as CWC who are not answerable
to the project owner the Orissa government should be avoided.
*  Important engineering issues such as anti-sedimentation measures should be resolved at
the time of project appraisal or as soon as possible thereafter.
+ Competitive bidding can result in award of contracts to public sector firms who submit
unrealistically low bids. Safeguards are required to prevent this.
*  The use of consultants for direct project management is risky and success depends on both
the caliber of the consulting staff and the context in which it is introduced. Recent
experience in UIHP has been unsatisfactory.
* The Panel of Experts has played a useful advisory role and should continue to be called
upon to assist UIHP until all the units are commissioned.



- 29 -                           APPENDIX A
* Despite a late and unsatisfactory start to the resettlement of displaced persons,
considerable efforts were then made to rectify the situation and the program was
completed to a much higher standard than in any other previous scheme in Orissa. The
forthcoming rehabilitation action plan has an important role to play in improving the
income-generating opportunities of the DPs.
* Rather than being approved at the same time as the IDA Credit, the IBRD loan should
have followed 3-4 years later, thereby avoiding the payment of unnecessary commitment
charges (over US$ 1.1 million annually) by the Borrower.



- 30 -                          APPENDIX B
BY FAX
GoveJument of Ot'i4a
Depattnent of Engy
No.               /E.
UIP. 36196
Vated, Bhuban6jt, the JCt&  Apti, 96.
F'w
A. IR. NMA,
PRINCIPAL SECRETARY.
(FAX N0. 0674- 403 17S 1
To.
5lk. KaAjZ Ny utz,
SenFoJD Ewetgy EcoxaiAt,
Ene&gy and Inazttucwa OpeaZtnA ViuLtU.,
Soutk Aia CounJLy VepM.,
Wo'rl-d Bank,
1919-  beet H.W".,
WaAhington D.,C., 20433, USA.
(FAX NO. 001-202-477SC56)
Sub:       Dltat mptementaon Coupteton Repo'tt-
C=. 135S6-I-UppeA Inuati-.
ptZeaze QLegeV fto you  tett    da.ted 22.22. 9
anr  the above  suZbjec.t. A6  %equZxed,  the  euatuationt
&tepwrt oi the DOE 4ck iwncQLain in the  Imrptemention
Comptetion Repott o  Uppek Tndicvatl H. E. P'wject A
enctoze d.
POUAAjaJLjcaS g.
PRINCIPA SiC4ETAR3Y



- 31 -
Evadt:tton Repott oi t-he Vepakfrpnt os Ene'rgy, Gout. o0  O&ZAAa 4o&
inct"Zono in tke ImNItementzon Comptetton RepO4't o0 Lppe. Indavati
fl-E. hPoojet- Ckedt -1356-IN.
The covmenta oi the Deptt. 0s Ene'rgy on tke obsetuationr
made b6y the &znk  in di_eAent paatraphz o  the  Imptementatn
eoptetion Repo'ct ake az 6oetow&:-
P'ro fe-t objectZv".-:
The  F'jeat objectives eAnct de genetation oi et ect yi
600 l'lW =tza  eapa&ty and pitouision o6 I 8Zga;aon to 7, X2&O00
Kee. f and not 1,09,000 flea.].
.KLg 4a.etauL a.44Leting Imptemen.taton:
PaJuLLaph-7
It i6 not eoc'ect to zay that GOO had not given whote
heated zappoLt to the CUM. A6tvr GOO accepted the concep;t oX ChO
a.d OPMO, i  had detegated atL  neceisaty poaexAz to the CMO to enabte
it to  nction eiiectUvety. It "Z  on.y due to poztZng od tQchZealCty
meak peAJonnet. oi Ha&za that the'te wuz  detay in the pitoject
execution due to. detayed dee"ions.
VhA3akmime"
Pe&ta4kdVp I 0
Banke Mi,66ions o po.st-1991 Stood had onty kaized and
Zn6-tted on inrpeementoztion oi additionat meazrtez tike 6edZmentation
aoanYtot and z =tet6ed management etc. EaktiLe'r W.Zon6 neveit &aized
tke6e LZa6uea.
C-AAJOR FACrORS AFFECTING PROJECr PERFORuMACE
Factoi. not zubject to Gove'cment con.tko-
.Pa'ca. k-14:
t   oa, poonted out that the rLizk o  sedimnentation a.  the
wate't tntake  e,frc'e to the heEd'ace tanneZ Au  cieo6e to the poZnt
at whch the IndtavatL 'rvelr enteu the te,eYcvoijr ukaA not adequatety
a.6e.6ed. TkiA  ZA  not co44eat. The Pwtoject Repott wada  p-repaAed
taking   aU   theAe  Jactou   into  con4idekation  and  aLAo  the
degaZenc,i", ii any. The .6tudy of AedimentztZon mu nt 6uggeAted
in &Ak{' Jiut'app&.Z6at &epo4t inL 1982-93. The panet oi expekt&
Jot the ptOject expite4Rd tke.Z  ao floneen muck eAatiek &e9aLdg deLta
io'mation at the intake duAing economy LZte tZme oi the pLojfeet. Az
peQJ the,'Ct   a tion, matkematicat modeL 6tudy wae conid.ted by the-
CWC with the hetp oi ffEC-6 modet. This wa4 ve-iiied by a phk&ieat
mode! Atudy by the C(rPPs, Pane. The4e tCepoit6 wee put uP to the
panet o, Expe&U. The paneL o4 Expe't:6 keviewed the kepoNt6 and We/re
o6 the  opinion that the  4ediment-ation  m6  not a  pwobtem  a.
appt'eheded. SmbAequently thZ6 a&pect wa   4aZ ed by the  Hawza
ConAutth.. On their advuce and on tke 'ecommendation o4 the- POE,
Juwtkek mathcmatia  modee &tLLdy with the heLp o6 M7KE-II and fHEC-6
A&ojt=&e   package   wa    condLcted  o,ot   va-rious   aLte'untve
zedtimentaton  nating  aoue&A. Thia  study indicated that the deLta.
moutd advance to  the intake moutih between 50-75  yeawr  o the
jeAe&voZ, ope/ation. Acw'tdZnMty 'remedZa measue.z wp'e 6uggeAted by
U/A. GwS  eonAuLtanth  who wete ent4usted  wuth  the  job  oa  the
Aedeminafion -stuy. Thehe tecomne ndtiton6 we're aepted by the POE.
Foit thZ  the  cnzuttant6 have engaged theZit eQxpet Mi. Khatid, and
at.ao MI/. GJS Powekr Packs. The 'tepo    z waz 6tuA4ed by the POE undeA
the .chaiwafrAnhip  i Mi. Y.K.Muwthy and Mo. fkakato. They have atAo
Aug_eAted  *emedata  mea6uwe.. Accordingty actZo n ia b ein6 taken. to
condcwt:phgtLcdl modetwigy at Pane.



32 -
!jjeajoh-15:  Zwnee.'rZnQ .onsuttanzt.
The CWC and the CEA a&te the oY-ganUation.  qo'appoUvq
p'toject iepo4Lt6, deAiZn6 and othe4 detaJ2- not onty  ao' tIe S:tateo 
Oicisza bu t  k aft the StateL Zn India. Thete wac  no A6uah abno&mat
detau. ThkeAe.az siequent inte actLon  with the engine-er  at .6te
and the CWC engineeu'. Thete waL a Liaforning  Unit oW CWC at the
pioject zite. A ReA-dent GeotOgiQ;t wa.6 at,6o pozt&ed to the piwjeet
Jo&L the. AstEdy oj ge-atechzi.Z~
Paagqnaph 16 S 17:  Poo4 ContAacto't Pe'to'mance:
Stnnce the ptooect i6 zitned Zn a backwa'd t6.at awtea
wkich ta.kd   bazec isbasJt7tcte and iz  awagy 6om  the tat-khead,
the.e wua  dci6cuLty in depgaying wo&tketcLluo'rkmen En tke tintiaL
ztage4. Many pe-opte  6uj6eted  'iLom  jeue'L. Though thi  deltay ia
inhekent in the. constaction o4 p'owject6 og 6zch magjZtude -in 6Lrh
temote ptaw-A, oi-toadtxg od the works awtaded to contatoa&A hab
Juthe'L dZAtocated the pWogStess.
Pa&ag&aph- 7:  Imptementation zchedLte.
MO coment6.
Patatguaph-19: Changeq in ptoject Cozt;6 and Finance.:
Trhe 6econd tevi.zed e"tZmate ptepaed Zn the yeat 1992 was
nok RA.920. 00 ckoteA. Fuwthe, taking the picent co.st: etc., the
e.4timate  haL  been  aga,n  tevuied to  RL.17116.00  CrOiLe. It iA
etimqted that Au,the4 amount oa  about Rh .500.00 cLtokes 'witt b6
inve6ted do't which avaangemen-t cZth the Powek Finance  CoJpoILation
dolt a eoan of R6. 320.00 c'toez a zundeJt  inati6ation. The- O'iz&a
Hyd'o-Powet Cotpo&ation wili  inveLt the baLance amount.
Pa&a_qtaph-2?:  InAttu.tionat Atnamgement6:
The p'oject conzLtA  o4 the   "eatvoit, inta-ke  cha.net4
head'ace tunnet, penstock, powelt houze, and tai-ta.ce channet which
weke unde.t the- contnot oi the Deptt. oS EneAgy and  sabsequenty
tAanY6eltted to the contAot oa  the O04i4h.a Hydto  Powe&  Cotpoiattion
Ltd. The i#iga.tion zy6tem i6 being tooked aitet by the PQeptt. oj
Wae.t Rezoutcez Jo& which a aepaxate eztab6thment headed by a Chiej
Engineet (CIfigation) iA junctZoning at the ptoject 4ite. TheLte
no dZ66ccuLLt itegatding cooitdination and no dZ66icu2ty ia  enfviaged
Zn cait.y ng out the ptofeet wo'tkz.
Pa&aqtaph-22:    SeZting   up   ad  the   ConztAuction   Management
O'ranisation (CMO):
The Con6tAuctZon Management OtganiZation zet up to manage
the  conatuation  wo'rk  h2A  'tesutted  Zn  compticacy  and  detaged
execution ofi wa40  due to non-Aina/Jaaoticn ao  tendePA   in time. It
ia  not cokLeect to  Aag that Odi"a Gouvt. did  not give adequate.
6uppoitt to  the  CUO. Att  6uppo-ktA  haue  been  extended  and  the
engneevA and 6taJ  ao the Deptt. alao coope)tated. The detay wa  dte,
to  6ec'elatiat pitocedvAez adopted by the CMO in xreceiving tendeui
and dezign deta,Js", and putan   up new methods oa  contk.uctZon which
wete not ae-eptable to the contLacto'ta execatZng the waotk.6.
fPaaqtaph 25:  Pa?net od ExpettA:
The ouet-aU  pet'o'wmance oa  the POE wau  ata .actotoy and a
numbt o6 piEobtems add'tezed to the POE have been 4otved.
Contd.P.3/-



- 33 -
Pa.ta,q&aph 26:   tPocwtement DeZayA.
The dgt eto da g,
{jnat     otion "A    'e brtiWeVcg    8=. mog                 d 
gett2ng d4at tendet  app'toved by them, az a ntimbe&t os t&zms  and
condion6 and qeftvZez weAe put beo',te  inatAaton o  tendeA4. The
matte& waA JuAtheh detaoed az some timez the dkait teknde.t &cheuLteA
wuete ,iejeA,ed to the Clo'&Id &nk headquarteu  at Wa6hington- A6 peA
the Ouo'ttd Banz  pkacedu&e, a numte't o6 wo'Lfkr  were gtouped into a
zingte package a" a 'Lezutt oi which znpaeteA conttatoc&A coutd not
partZeciate. It iz not eort4ect to 6ay that many oiiceu  have been
dstjuAbed dLifng thiz  pe'iod. Many top  ogijieu   inc&dcng  the
Powject AdminZt&ato&t, the Chiej ConzVuiction EngZnee't and the
De4ign EngEneez we/e continafin  in theiA poA4t6 jo)L tong dukatLon
dwu:ng this petiod.
Pa&ag&qapk 27: Rezetttement P2anning L Imptementation:
The deay in Leae.ttement ptannZng and imp!emeAtatZon aA
pointed out by the Wo'ttd Bank did not con6Laute to any detay' in
compteeton oA- the pfoject.
ESIS&aph 28: Impoact on P&oject ImptementatZon:
The'te Z6 no )Lea6on to 'ae doubt6 by tke Woktd Bank
about the quatity oi engineeting and con6wtaction saiety o  tkhe dams
undet   conAtkuatZon,  6Znce  att  dAawbngs  and  dezignA  have  been
thotoughty ckedked by the CWC/CEA and executed by quatiAed and
expe.ienced enginee&A and atso by expe4tenced oonttacatng agencies.
The               e  -off        d conztnac, rgn  R te'r
dams ha  been  1otindtd a10                       e6 .66 e y          _f
Bank ConzuttantA. Rechecking o6 the doawing-6 and dezign6 o, aZtL the
zttZctu&eA not onty detaiyed the wo'tk, but atAo cteated mizunde't-
ztanding among engineens os the p&oject who we-te invotved Zn the
execution os cook. It may not be out oi paece to mentZon that aU
majo&t hycd'oetectAia ptofectA in the State o6 Otzsza :6ach as the
&ztaimeta Dam Paoject, Uppe-' Kotab P?toject and RengatE P'tojeat ete.
have been dezagned constAucted and .ommr-4&oned by the enginee,A oa
the Gout. oi Oz.oa. Fab&ication and eAeation oi pen4toek pipez tn
Uppeot Kotab P'oject haA at4o been done by the engineWr of OCC Ltt.
So thete Z no queation o{ tack o6 expe&tise Zn the atea.
D-SUSrTAl.ABTLITY
Pa&a4'rtph 43: NVo conrment6.
F-BDRROWERI'S L IMPLEMENTfNG ACENCY'S PERFORMANCE.
The viewu expze.zed by the Wottd Bank Zn theAe pa'agwophz
aAe not cotiLect. The. plYeact wah manned by peopte having  both
manage&ial and engineeving  6kZU. It i   not co'uiLect that the
6spZtting up 06 the ITte-rgation and Powet DepUt. into Deptt. 0o
Enemtgy and Dept;t. oi Wate'r Re6outcez ha.6 deuazed thQ 'iehpon6ibitity
and weakened the ptoject management. Since the ptoject i6 manned by
the Deptt. o0  Enekgy ( excecudZng i4AigatLon) tkete =6 no devotutiovt
oi autAokity. Since the p-tfect 4L  now tAzan&6ejved to the 04Z6za
*Hydko-Powex Cotpo4ation Ltd., Zt witt be A'tee Jlom Govt. contnote
and decLzionA on mattezz woutd be token quZckty by the Cokpo=tZton.
The Pizoject Management haz got h6i6taicent authOt'f;y to dLspose oi
matte'r  wZtWZn the.  codal  powe'c. In evety  case theAe Ahoutd be
accoutabitiLty in exe&ation  o6 zuch  a ptojee.t and  ckeck  and
counte&t-dheck"  have to be maintained Zn the expendZte on wc-&ks. It
"  not coftett that the changes in Aenio'i nranageAiat post6 in the
p1to,eet aEe toc in9eq(uLt.
Contd.P.41-



- 34 -
Though tkeke we-me Acme &tae4 in the powject 6o'r tie- 991
dtood, it ZA  not ptopet to  attAibute that tie 4taj  ak&e not
nnZmted to the =4A. It iA  aLAo not a Aart that  many. o  the
pkoject Atai  did  not &econcite  thewetvea- to  the  poAt 1993
maenagee      t     ef and wete not corm=&er to itz goaZ&. They we
tatAeke  diheataned berause tkei'z  wok.abitity and expektz6e we&
ueAy o6ten doub:ted by tke Con itant6.
G- ASSESSMFf OF OLrCOMF.
Pa&gaq'aph 60: 1- i6 nOW ptog4awned tD commizAzon the Zrt Unit in
1998-99.. ALt majo't woatz  connected withgnetation ate  mtt on
ptogteAs -. The p&ofject woued be &ianced by the Powek FZnance
CoicpoJtation, 6o-i whi.ek agrteement -A going to be zgned zho4.tty.
rhe points kieLed Zn the O&Zce Memotmandwn daed Novembet
14, 1995, bJom Mk. SucaZ Math'rani, Conhctitant, add,te&A ed to Mrc.
Jean-F ezncois Baue&t aWe not co)m'ect. Ce't&&in zttuctu&at   changez. have
at1teady taken ptaae- One Chiei Engineet (Cuvit) haiA been poated to
took atekt the civZi  wotkA and to  coowtdinate the mechanicanici  thx
joaL -ea4eZj conmptetion o6 the p'wject.
Genexata Conments:
(Z)  tdWo'LL   Bank'.6  -ZnZiAtence   6ot   inrtry.ion   of  an
Intemnz.atonat. ConsuttZng FZtP,'6toppage o  uwthek t'Loan inmediatety
a6ten 6iL- utisation ad tke IDA CktedLt, 8ank's 6abL6equent deciAion
to conzde.i the Uppei TndtLavati Pkoject a& mutti-pwtpoze pto-ject 6aot
the zanction o4 a re.&h Loan etc; conttibuted to dwtthet detay jok
comptetion o, the p'towect.
(ii) Engagement o M/A6 flatza. Enginee'Ling Co. ao technicat
ConsiutanLt  to  the pkojec.t did  not  hetp  ueiy    chft and  theZi
cont-tibution wa6 atzo not to the  expec=aon6  oC  G0O. faAza!
pelaonnet posted in the patoject we'te not technicatLy uety zound and
a. a 0.te4 t they couc2d not p'tovide on-4he-A pot deciAionAI/zouiLonz
to the  6ietd poabtem6. The mattetz wete tede'tr'ed to thei&  Head
066Lcce- at Chicago and they had to  wai-t 4ot the decizions to come
dJom Checago
(ii)  ffad  Bank'z6  zecond  loan  to  compLete  UITHEP  been
avaieabZe by  tp'tit'95 t nmediatety adtet the. ctozing oi6 the IDA
Caedit 1356-IN), the 6in5t powet umit coaLcd have been compteted by
Feb&uay' 97 ah ptanned. But tn6ottunaety adtet the 01oCAue a6 rDA
Ctedit, the Bank did not ag'%ee  to p,%ovide 6u&thek Zoan as-&ztance-
to thiA  H'ydk'o ptowect. The pLooject wa6 .t';azn6e'v%ed to the 0Z&ia
ffydLo  Powet Cotpo'kation  ub6equentty. The  Co'tpojtaZEon  ha.6Ynow
aertanged  toan  cr  Rz.  320.00  etwae.s  6'tom  the  PowepJ  Financtp
Cotpowa.tion,. to  compLete the pitojec(t.
Contd. P. 5/-



- 35 -
po6Zti'ue Rote o( the- bank
(a] RegucLA supejtvi6on of the bank teamd ptovided tZmeey
gu2dn'ze and hetped a tot Zn. the Imp'ouement ao tke quauey oa  waok
and atzo in expeditn  pweoject exetcation..
(i4) Bank' z cobtbution to the -teitnement in the R-1I poticy
oi the State Govt. aZso needs mentEon. TheZ& con6=&r guwdance haA
pfai-ed  the- VPs  in  Uppevc  Indava.Z  Ptoject in  a  beetteA  and
comja4tabte poaition.



- 36 -                      APPENDIX C
UPPER INDRAVATI HYDRO PROJECT
(Credit 1356-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION ISSUES
1.    The World Bank was unable to appraise in 1995 the completion of the Upper Indravati
Project's (UIP) dams, hydro-power complex and Right Bank Canal irrigation system which were
earlier envisaged to be supported under the Orissa Power Sector Restructuring and the Water
Resources Consolidation Projects respectively. This was due to a number of unresolved issues at
that time, as can be seen in the attachment to this annex.
2.    The attachment is an unedited extract, with no updating, from the Bank's February 1995
appraisal mission for the Orissa Power Sector Restructuring Project and is dated February 22,
1995. It had been expected that the scope of the mission would have covered also the appraisal
of the completion of the Upper Indravati project. Instead, the mission had to focus on an in-depth
identification and assessment of the pending issues that needed to be addressed prior to the
appraisal of the Upper Indravati project.
3.    The February 1995 mission indicated to Orissa that: (a) should a range of issues including
those highlighted below and elaborated in the attachment be satisfactorily resolved to a level of
normal project implementation risk; and (b) subject to the resulting remedial measures not
compromising the multi-purpose project's economic viability; and (c) subject to Orissa meeting
other (standard) requirements of applicable Bank Operational Directives (4.01, 4.20 and 4.30),
the Bank would be willing to appraise the project as a self-standing lending operation to help
complete both the hydro and irrigation components.
4.    Meeting the requirements of Bank Operational Directives has now become an academic
issue for Orissa, as Orissa and the Government of India no longer seek Bank financing for the
Upper Indravati project. The Orissa Hydro Power Corporation (OHPC) has secured funding for
the completion of the project from the Power Finance Corporation. But the need to address the
still pending issues remains - and addressing them is in the best interest of Orissa to help
ensure successful project completion, irrespective of the fact that the Bank is no longer
involved. Four major issues are highlighted for attention:
(a)   downstream water releases;
(b)   sedimentation control;
(c)   project management; and
(d)   penstock construction.
5.    The attachment elaborates on two critical remaining issues potentially affecting
successful project completion and operation by Orissa:



- 37 -                     APPENDIX C
(a)   downstream water releases; and
(b)   technical uncertainties and risks related to the reliability and sustainabiity of
both power generation and irrigation water delivery.
6.    Other issues covered in the attachment include watershed management programs and the
completion of the rehabilitation of Upper Indravati project affected persons. Since then, Orissa
has prepared: (a) integrated water management programs so as to cover the entire Upper
Indravati watershed; and (b) the Upper Indravati cluster-based family-oriented rehabilitation action
plan (CBFORAP). The main task now is to implement these programs in a satisfactory manner. The
Bank was ready to support the implementation of these programs under the Orissa Power Sector
Restructuring Project. At the request of Orissa and the Government of India, they were not included
in the final scope of the project.
7.    A Project Affected Person Economic Rehabilitation Plan (PAPERP) for families affected
by land acquisition in both the Left and Right Bank Canal areas in the Upper Indravati irrigation
component remains to be prepared and then put into implementation.
8.    Finally, there are two additional major issues for OHPC to address, in addition to
those listed in para. 6, namely project management and penstock construction. Project
management was not on the issues agenda in early 1995 but it is not a new issue either. As
elaborated in the main body of the ICR, project management was an issue until the establishment
of the CMO and the recruitment in 1993 of international consultants to lead it. They were in
place in early 1995, but their contract was terminated by the Orissa government in mid-1995, as
Bank funding was not forthcoming. OHPC has secured completion financing, but has as of May
1996 not yet recruited necessary staff and/or consultants to manage the project. In 1995 the
Orissa government had informed the Bank of its plan to strengthen the penstock construction by
engaging other contractor(s) to complement its own construction corporation's efforts. This has
not materialized. The Bank is concerned about the capability and capacity of that corporation to
complete the penstock in line with the overall schedule of the project.



- 38 -                        ATTACHMENT
UPPER INDRAVATI HYDRO PROJECT
(Credit 1356-in)
REQUIREMENTS FOR WORLD BANK APPRAISAL
ANNEX I OF WORLD BANK AIDE MEMOIRE OF FEBRUARY 28,1995
The World Bank is currently unable to appraise the completion of the Upper Indravati
Project's (UIP) dams, hydro-power complex and Right Bank Canal irrigation system which were
earlier envisaged to be supported under the Orissa Power Sector Restructuring and Water Resources
Consolidation Projects respectively. This is due to unresolved issues related to:
(a)   compliance with the Indravati water-sharing agreement between Orissa and Madhya Pradesh
dated 9.12.75;
(b)   technical uncertainties and risks related to the reliability and sustainability of both power
generation and irrigation water delivery;
(c)   incomplete watershed management plans;
(d)   unavailability of a Project Affected Person Economic Rehabilitation Plan (PAPERP) for
families affected by land acquisition in both the Left and Right Bank Canal areas;
(e)   still ongoing (i.e. incomplete) public consultation process with the project affected
population, including those in the Indravati Basin below the reservoir, to incorporate their
water needs into the operational rules of the downstream water releases. The estimate of
these needs will be backed-up by the proposed monitoring program. Such public
consultation is required under Bank Policy (OD 4.01) for Category A Projects. An analysis
should be made which people are affected in their livelihoods be it in fisheries, agriculture
drinking water supply or others. Adequate compensation, according to World Bank's
standards, will be required;
(f)    EA Summary, including mitigation and monitoring plans, should be translated into the local
language and distributed and discussed in the project area and in the downstream affected
Indravati Basin downstream of the reservoir. The discussion can take place in the form of
some public hearings in the affected area. (The full EA report is available for public review at
a place at the project site and in the office of the UIP liaison office in Bhubaneswar). These
procedures are required under Bank Policy (OD 4.01) and also under the Indian
Environmental Protection Act (1986), Recent Notification in the Gazette of India on January
27, 1994;
(g)   forest areas should be compensated in the same watershed. At present compensation was
planned in another watershed, but GOO indicated that this would be changed.



- 39 -                        ATTACHMENT
Should the above issues be satisfactorily resolved to a level of normal project
implementation risk, and subject to the proposed remedial measures not compromising the
multi-purpose project's economic viability, the Bank would be willing to appraise a UIIP
multi-purpose project as a self-standing lending operation. As such, GOO may be required to
immediately take steps to seek a final Environmental Clearance from GOI for the new
operation, especially as previous environmental clearance stipulations may not yet have been
fully met.
Inter-State Water-Sharing Requirements
Inter-State Agreements. The Operational Directives and Water Resources Management
Policy of the World Bank require that funding of any Bank project utilizing international rivers must
prove that there will not be any adverse impact on the legitimate water quantity and quality
requirements of downstream riparian countries. Downstream states are to be notified about
upstream diversions and are to convey their agreement to the proposed Bank-supported project. As
water is a State subject in India, these directives also apply to utilization of inter-state rivers and
development of their water resources. Thus any upstream diversions should be consistent with
the provisions of inter-state water-sharing agreements between the affected riparian users.
As indicated in the October 1994 UIP Environmental Assessment Report (EA), the
Government of India's 1979 environmental clearance for UIP was predicated on the December 9,
1975 water-sharing agreement between Madhya Pradesh and Orissa ( hereinafter the MP-O
Agreement). The MP-O Agreement states:
"It was agreed that Orissa will ensure at its border with Madhya Pradesh a flow of 45
TMC in the Indravati and its tributaries at 75% dependability for use by Madhya
Pradesh. In the years of shortage, the shortage will be shared proportionately between the
two states and the assurance of flow in the Indravati and its tributaries, referred to above will
stand proportionately reduced. Both the States agree to joint gauging at suitable points to
ascertain the yield data and to ensure the flow of 45 TMC at 75% dependability of the
proportionately reduced flow in years of shortage that has to flow below the common
border. The figure of 45 TMC is on the assumption that of total yield of 204 TMC from the
Indravati sub-basin in Orissa and 91 TMC utilization for the Upper Indravati Project. If the
assessment of 204 TMC is found to be high and the correct figure is lower than 204 TMC
and the utilization for the Upper Indravati Project gets reduced from the figure of 91 TMC,
then the figure of 45 TMC will get reduced in the same proportion as the reduction in the
figures of 91 TMC.
In view of the agreement incorporated in the above clause, Madhya Pradesh agrees to
clearance and execution of the Upper Indravati Project, as proposed and submnitted by Orissa
to the Government of India."
An annual cross-border discharge amount of 45 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) is
equivalent to a continuous flow of 40.3 cubic meters per second (cms). Similarly, a UIP
utilization of 91 TMC is equal to a continuous power/irrigation consumptive use of 81.5 cms. UIP's



-40 -                         ATTACHMENT
average annual power (@100% load factor) of 252 MW or average annual generation of 2.206 GWh
corresponds to a continuous flow of about 81.5 cms. Thus, while the operating capacity of UIP
(namely 600 MW of instantaneous power derived from a discharge of 200 cms, and irrigation
delivery of 120 cms) may be managed annually to utilize only 81.5 cms continuous in accordance
with the MP-O Agreement, the discharge management to ensure a cross-border flow of 40.3 cms is
not at all clear. Meeting the agreed river discharge requirement could entail a reduction in
UIJP of both power output and irrigation, and may affect the scheme's overall economic
viability.
Minimal Downstream Riparian Needs. A simulation study of UIP operation, using a 31 year
semi-synthetic flow record, indicate that there would be no spills below the Upper Indravati reservoir
in seven out of ten years. The EA proposes a continuous UIP reservoir release into the Indravati
River of 7 cms which is estimated to provide for existing water supply, conservation and
irrigation needs within Orissa only. This amount was selected as records imply that this is the
historical 1: 10 year Indravati low flow at Nowrangpur near the border. Apparently, this quantum is
required despite other inflows from the Telingiri, Turi and Bashkel rivers within Orissa, especially as
low flows of the Telingiri may be already utilized as a result of existing irrigation schemes. It
could be assumed that a 7 cms flow would be mostly consumed in the dry season and that little, if
any, flow would pass beyond the Orissa border in the dry season.
A larger dry season discharge may therefore be needed in some years to meet existing water
supply, irrigation and conservation needs of the Indravati within Madhya Pradesh until its confluence
with the Godavari River in Andhra Pradesh. The dry season inflows into the Indravati within
Madhya Pradesh are not mentioned in the EAR with respect to the adequacy of the 7 cms release
from UIP. The minimal dry season maintenance flow could therefore exceed 7 cms at the Orissa
border. Downstream water requirements beyond Orissa were not assessed in the EA, nor was
it intimated how these needs would be met given the general intent of the MP-O Agreement.
In order to approve further Bank support of UILP, this issue has to be resolved, and the
minimum releases at the dam concomitant with downstream riparian needs must be
established and agreed to by GOO to ensure compliance with the Bank's water resources and
environmental assessment directives. This analysis must be included in the revised EA
iertainina to the multi-purpose UILP.
Annual Cross-Border Flow. MP-O Agreement does not stipulate the monthly or seasonal
cross-border flow. Thus Orissa may meet its obligations by ensuring a minimum of say 7 cms
continuously from UIP, and rely on monsoon runoff from the catchment between the dam and the
border to make up the balance needed to achieve an annual cross-border amount of 45 TMC.
However, the onus falls on Orissa to meet its water-sharing obligations. Hydrological analysis of the
yield of the downstream catchment and discharges from the Telingiri, Turi and Bashkel rivers may
determine whether a minimal UIP monsoon release of 7 cms is adequate to ensure meeting the 45
TMC target with a 75% reliability. Long-term average flows for UIP for 1950-1971 and 1982-1990
were 74.8 TMC. The long-term average for the Jagdalpur gauge for the period September 1965 to
May 1992 was 119.5 TMC. Although the periods are not directly comparable, the difference was
44.7 TMC; however since the sanctioned diversion capacity of UIP is 91 TMC, it would seem that
there is a 16.5 TMC shortfall on average. It is not clear how the above figures relate to those quoted



-41-                           ATTACHMENT
in the MP-O Agreement. What is clear, however, is that all future consumptive uses (inclusive of
existing and proposed project spills and return flows) upstream of the Jagdalpur gauge must
be considered in forecasting the ability to deliver 45 TMC to Madhya Pradesh.
In any event, continuous cross-border discharge monitoring by DOWR and/or OHPC would
be needed for Orissa to meet its obligations to Madhya Pradesh. If at the end of the monsoon season
it was found that monsoon flows and previous dry season discharges total less than 45 TMC, the
subsequent dry season discharge from UIiP would have to exceed the releases of the previous dry
season. It is recommended that GOO review actual annual flow data at gauging stations near
the Madhya Pradesh border (Jagdalpur and Nowrangpur), subtract simulated releases from
ULP as well as consumptive uses in the Telingiri, Turi and Bashkel rivers in the same years,
and then determine if the 45 TMC requirement would be met with a 75% dependability.
This analysis must be included in the full EA, and operational recommendations for annual
UIP releases should be proposed (including appropriate provisions of gate design to meet
fluctuating release requirements)
Resolution of the Sedimentation Issue
Reservoir Sediment Inflow. It has been determined that the design sediment inflow
assumption of I acre-foot/sq. mile/year for the Indravati River was too low, and that consequently, a
review is needed of previous estimates of reservoir life, and the potential for clogging of the power
intake tunnel. Whereas Harza has estimated sediment yield to be about 4 ac.ft./sq.m./yr., the January
1995 Interim Report of GMS - using a more refined analysis based on monthly sediment-discharge
relationships - has estimated the yield to be about 1.62 ac.ft./sq.m./yr.. GOO tends to accept this
result as it is similar to findings from reservoir sedimentation surveys of Hirakud Dam in Orissa. The
Bank mission does not accept this argument as both peak runoff and sediment yield are
known to be inversely proportional to watershed area: i.e. the larger the area, the smaller the
unit runoff and sediment yield. The Hirakud watershed exceeds 83,000 sq. km while that of the
Indravati near the power intake is only about 530 sq. km!
GMS has not reviewed estimates of annual historical sediment yield to assess whether there is
an increasing trend indicative of accelerating watershed degradation. The issue of an increasing
trend is most important as actual measurement indicates that sediment yield has apparently
increased since 1989 and exceed 1.62 ac.ft./sq.m./year. Harza's computations indicate that
1991/1992 sediment yield for the Indravati and Muran rivers was 2.7 and 2.2 ac.ft./sq.m./yr
respectively. The trend analysis should also make comparisons with trends in river flow for the
period of actual flow record' as increasing land degradation is usually associated with greater runoff.
I   It should be noted that the 31 year flow record used in simulation studies contains many years of inflow
based on rainfall-runoff correlations. Such correlations are often inaccurate and also require sophisticated
statistical analysis to ensure that the monthly average, standard deviation and serial correlation coefficients are
similar with acceptable statistical significance.  The derivation of the synthetic flow series should be
documented and submitted to the Panel of Experts (POE) for review.



- 42 -                        ATTACHMENT
Given the inaccuracies of past sediment gauging methods and equipment, it would be
desirable that Messrs. GMS develop a refined annual sediment-discharge rating curve by regression
analysis to replace the apparently inaccurate curve given to Messrs. Harza by GOO. This is claimed
to give a more refined estimate of the total rating curve for both low and high discharges.
Notwithstanding, it is desirable that the total sediment yield be based on applying the annual rating
curve to an annual flow duration curve based on daily flow data as recommended by Harza in
March 1994: this should give a more accurate estimate of sediment yield since current
estimates are based on monsoon season flow and sediment data only.
Harza has undertaken a detailed review of the GMS computations (attached hereto) and
apparently maintains that the GMS methodology needs improvement in the direction of higher
sediment yield in excess of the GMS figure. In particular, the approach of monthly rating curves is
disputed. Since the annual sediment yield is a basic parameter for estimation of sediment delta
(top-set bed) formation, and for reservoir life, it is essential that further refinement and review
of the GMS sediment yield be undertaken along the lines suggested by Harza. The analysis
should also include an analysis of sediment inflow from all four rivers feeding the UIP
reservoir so that reservoir life estimates can also be reviewed.
Analysis of Power Intake Clogging. The mission was shown a 1991 CWC report containing
results of ID mathematical model studies to determine the development of the sediment delta at the
intake based upon a sediment yield of 1 ac.ft./sq.m/yr. While the model results indicate that the
main delta does not reach the intake in 100 years, the model clearly indicates the formation of
a secondary delta in the intake vicinity. The secondary delta poses a direct threat to the
power intake in a short time (assuming the model is accurate), and if the model is rerun with
higher sediment yield, it is to be expected that there is a serious threat of intake clogging and
entry of fine sand into the powerhouse.
GMS have not yet reported results from their ID mathematical model, and indicated the
improvements of the CWC model to be incorporated: these include modeling of a longer reach
beyond the intake. However GMS did not advise the rnission of the implications of the 1991 model
results with respect to secondary delta formation. It has been agreed that GMS would attempt a
more refined estimate of delta formation using a two-dimensional (2D) Danish Hydraulic
Institute model apparently available from CWC. If adaptable to the reservoir delta formation
problem, the model's results should be more credible as: (a) it is based on the Engelund-Hansen
formula which gives credible estimates of overall sediment transport (including bed-load); (b) the
reservoir cross-section and river alignment can be represented and provide for lateral as well as
longitudinal sediment deposition; and (c) the model provides lateral flow velocity vectors which
could enable the modeling of interventions such as river diversion and check dams to divert
sediment from the intake. The mission understands that GOO has accepted the recommendation
to use a 2D mathematical model. Use of such a model should also overcome the reservations about
ID models expressed at the 19th meeting of the Panel of Experts (POE).
Implications of Sediment Composition. The composition of suspended and bed load
sediment is a major determinant of the geometry of the top set bed: consequently care must
be taken with representation of this parameter in both mathematical and hydraulic models.



- 43 -                        ATTACHMENT
The proportion of fine and coarse sand - i.e. greater than 0.2 mm - in the representative
sediment composition is also critical for intake design, turbine life and review of dredging
requirements. In discussions with GMS, the mission had the impression that the GMS studies had
only used one bed-load sample for estimating corrections to derive the sand component, whereas
Harza had based their estimates of composition on 18 bed-load samples. Similarly, corrections for
the one point sampling method in determining the sand fraction need to be based on site specific data
(see para 7 of the Harza comment attached hereto). Harza has recommended a program of
improved suspended and bed-load sediment sampling: this should be pursued by GOO
during the coming monsoon season, and the results incorporated in refining all analyses.
Sediment Diversion and Intake Protection. GOO intends to develop Harza's sediment
diversion concept consisting of: (a) construction of a rockfill barrier structure about 3 km upstream
of the power intake; and (b) construction of a diversion channel to divert the Indravati flows around
the intake area and into an existing stream bed below the intake. When the reservoir levels are low, it
is anticipated that sediment would be diverted into the diversion channel and deposit below the
diversion channel. Delta formation would thus begin from the upstream limit of the reservoir up to
the barrier dam and continue below the diversion channel, and possibly back to the intake area.
While there is considerable practical merit to the proposal, GOO agrees that its efficacy and
design requires careful mathematical (2D) and physical model analysis. Its impact on sediment
deposition and delta formation is presently not known in terms of rate of sediment build-up at the
barrier dam, and the consequent possibility of sediment overtopping of the barrier into the intake
area. Simnilarly, the potential for clogging of the diversion channel itself due to delta formation must
be considered and evaluated. These analyses should be carried out for alternative estimates of
sediment inflow ranging from 1.5 to possibly 5 ac.ft./sq.m/yr.
The mathematical and hydraulic models will have to incorporate the exact geometry
and platform of the upper portion of the reservoir, the sediment quantum and composition,
and the seasonal reservoir fluctuations (i.e. averages derived from Harza's 31 year simulation
study). It may also be necessary to consider vanes of the type proposed by the POE. Thus,
the design of the hydraulic model should be preceded by expert review of the terms of
reference to be given to the Pune laboratory: it is essential that the model TOR and design be
reviewed by the POE (e.g. Dr. Nakato).
From the detailed design and costing point of view, a number of critical geometric
parameters have to be determined as a result of the model studies to optimize the diversion concept.
These are: (a) the distance between the barrier and the diversion channel; (b) the height of the barrier
structure; (c) the invert level of the diversion channel relative to the existing Indravati channel; and
(d) the angle of the diversion channel relative to the Indravati to ensure maximum sediment diversion.
The geometric parameters would be derived from 2D flow models and the hydraulic model (the
former is useful for deriving flow vectors etc.). Until these geometric parameters and the
barrier's foundation design are determined, the design cannot be validated and its cost
realistically determined. GOO, however, maintains that mathematical models should suffice; the
mission believes that such a determination should be left to the POE who have earlier been very
skeptical of the predictive capability of such models.



-44-                          ATTACHMENT
The diversion proposal may also have implications for the present design of the anti-
vortex intake structure consisting of a bell-mouth channel and intake weir. The flow pattern
would be totatly different from that modeled in 1991 if preceded by the barrier: the patterns
would vary when the reservoir level is above the barrier compared to the draw-down
condition when the level is below the barrier crest. The 1991 model was based on a sediment
yield that was too low and therefore needs review irrespective of the diversion system. This design
was also predicated on the assumption of hydraulic dredging to prevent the channel's blockage: this
may no longer be necessary. It is therefore recommended that the intake be modeled during
hydraulic model studies to assure its efficacy, and that its dredging needs and equipment should be
reviewed.
Turbine Breakdown Contingencies. It is hoped that the proposed sediment diversion scheme
will drastically reduce turbine damage by sand particles, and not result in progressive turbine shut-
down for runner repair; however such damage should not be ruled out. At present, there is one spare
runner, and if two or three turbines are out of commnission, irrigation delivery would be curtailed.
Common experience of repairing damage from cavitation and erosion on turbine runner blades and
buckets indicates that after stainless steel weld repairs are made to carbon steel members, the aerial
extent of damage increases beyond where the previous weld repair was made. Even when there has
been no change in operation or operating conditions, the damaged area increases. Many turbine
plant operators have accepted a certain amount of damage and repair costs as being economical. The
income from power produced while there is some damage from cavitation may far offset the costs of
weld repairs. However, close monitoring will be required to ensure that turbine structural weakening
does not occur. The turbine material issue should be checked and further study of the issue of
turbine monitoring and repair economics would be desirable. It may be warranted that
additional turbine runners and casings be procured. The new Bank project would fund any
additional runners that are deemed to be necessary.
The suggestion that turbine runners may be effectively repaired in-situ in a period of
3-4 months seems rather optimistic, especially in view of the need to ensure the requisite
quality of welding. The final condition of the repaired area in terms of smoothness is a key
determinant of how much darnage there may be thereafter. Some researchers have found that the
surface finish is as important a determinant of future damage as the cavitation pressure in the fluid
surrounding the region of damage. For these reasons, high standards of workmanship and
quality control wiU be needed, and appropriate workshop equipment, conditions and
personnel must be ensured.
Ensuring Reliable Irigation Delivery
Tailrace Channel Design and Operation. The March 1994 Harza Phase One report has
already drawn attention to possibilities of sedirnent deposition at the exit of the tailrace channel into
the Hati Barrage pool, and the need for effective maintenance methods for sedirnent removal. A
regulator was also suggested at this location. Irrespective of the intake clogging problem, tailrace
sedimentation contingencies may also result in intermittent operation of the power plant and
consequent stoppage of water delivery to the irrigated area. Further hydraulic analysis and Hati



- 45 -                         ATTACHMENT
pool operation studies under various operational contingency scenarios are probably required
to fully address and cost design modifications.
Link Canal Design and Operation. A cross-regulator and unlined link canal of 100 cms
capacity has been provided near the powerhouse to divert tailrace flow to the Right Bank Canal
(RBC) in the event of tailrace channel closure due to sedimentation and maintenance contingencies.
It is proposed that a structure at its outlet would facilitate division of the link canal outflow into 50
cms for the RBC and 50 cms for the Left Bank Canal (LBC). The mission is not aware that the
hydraulics and design of the link canal diversion system was checked by Harza during Phase One,
and if the outlet regulator has been designed and included in the project cost estimates. Furthermore,
there may be sections of the canal which cross soil instead of weathered rock, and may therefore
require lining to ensure that the canal remains stable and is not eroded during periods of sustained
high flow. An adequate density of sub-surface exploration should be ensured so that the weaker bed
material portions are identified: this will also prevent a repetition of the contractual problems faced
during tailrace construction due to inadequate quantity estimation by its designers. If all the above
checks were deficient, and structural designs are incomplete, they should be undertaken, and
necessary design modifications carried out and included in cost estimates.
By-pass Tunnel Outlet Desig . The Harza Phase One studies undertook a detailed review of
the so-called Irrigation Outlet Emergency Tunmel in Dike No. 4. The mission is not aware if the
tunnel capacity has been operationally related to reservoir level: i.e. that the Operational Rule
Curve of reservoir draw-down will ensure that adequate driving head will be available for
releases towards the latter part of the irrigation season, or at its initiation in June-July. The
Harza review however failed to determine if a outlet flow of 100 cms could be safely and efficiently
conveyed without appreciable water loss to the Hati river via the Dodakhara stream, and also to
negotiate an elevation drop of about 300 meters2. Environmental impacts of erosion and flooding
have not been assessed.
GOO designers have not yet undertaken detailed cross-section surveys and subsurface
exploration of the proposed flow alignment, nor have the requisite drop and conveyance structures
been designed and costed. Some structures may possibly require hydraulic model studies for energy
dissipation design because of the high velocities to be expected. It should be realized that the
outlet tunnel may often be required to operate for weeks, or even a full irrigation season,
because of sedimentation contingencies at the powerhouse system. In the event of total failure
of the turbines, the outlet tunnel could become the sole source of water for the irrigation
command. GOO intimated that the tunnel outlet structures will be fully analyzed, designed
and costed prior to project appraisal.
General Project Preparation Issues
Watershed Management Plans. A completely developed Integrated Watershed Management
Plan (rWMP) to reduce the long-term sediment yield to the UIP is not yet available for the ORI-1
2 In retrospect, the tunnel location mnay have been a more desirable and reliable location for the power
plant if sedimentation problems etc. would have been initially considered.



-46 -                         ATTACHMENT
sub-catchment and the Koraput district watershed, albeit that the IWMP for the Koraput area is to
funded under the forthcoming Power Restructuring Project currently being appraised. Technical
assistance will be provided through ODA of the UK for further development and implementation of
the IWMP. The current deficiencies are: (a) no plans have been prepared for parts of the Indravati
River watershed (e.g. ORI-l); (b) the congruence of the proposed plans for the Koraput area with
that of the existing IFAD supported program has not been evaluated and ensured; (c) existing plans
prepared by the Soil Conservation Directorate are land and water management plans which lack
other important elements such as livestock management; (d) the afforestation aspects of the soil
conservation plans have not been approved by the Forestry Department, nor has aerial and
implementation coordination of forestry and soil conservation been planned and ensured; (e) the
compatibility of the proposed soil conservation, afforestation and livestock management measures
with the tribal land tenure, forest and grazing usufruct systems (including "Podu" cultivation) and
social culture have not been evaluated; (f) the implementation capacity of GOO agencies to
undertake the IWMP (including incremental staff needs), and the scope of NGO involvement3 may
need further refinement; and (g) the public participation interventions to ensure ownership, long-term
adoption and sustainability of the proposed soil conservation measures and project interventions has
not been assessed.
The crucial sustainability aspect relates to: (a) the ability of scattered tribal villages to fund (in
cash and kind) 25% of interventions costing Rs. 3000-6000 per ha when the area to be treated by a
village may be large (say 300 -1000 ha); (b) many interventions require seeds, seedlings and various
other inputs to be provided to villagers free of cost to elicit their undertaking of soil conservation
measures; and (c) development of the enforcement measures to ensure that villagers comply with
initial or long-term restrictions of their previous behaviors and activities (e.g. preventing cattle from
grazing on newly established contour bunds planted with grasses or grassed strips).
It is essential that a viable IWMP be developed with due cognizance of all the above
administrative and socio-cultural factors. A proposal for ORI-1 - with refinement of the
Koraput Plan - must be de.veloped that will enable the various factors to be considered prior
to appraisal of the new UILP.
Multi-Purpose Operation. The incremental irrigation benefits are an addition created by
investment in the RBC completion in computation of the economic rate of return of the multi-
purpose project. However, the opportunity cost of downstream releases and irrigation priority
needs also to be considered in the composite project's economic analysis. Irrigation water
requirements and supply reliability should be carefully evaluated in the present Harza simulation
model, along with: (a) an operating check on overall downstream release requirements to Madhya
Pradesh; (b) introduction of Rule Curve constraints to ensure minimal head for the Irrigation By-Pass
Tunnel; and (c) appropriate peak power generating rules consistent with UIP's role in the future
hydro-thermal power network. The irrigation requirements should be in accordance with the
operational principles of DOWR for irrigation in general and UIP's RBC in particular. Under
WRCP, it is proposed that Rotational Water Supply (RWS) on a ON-OFF basis be introduced in
order to conserve water and maximize Rabi season irrigation. Secondly the proposed water
3   NGO capacity in Orissa must be assessed particularly as the WRCP will require massive NGO
involvement to cope with proposals to turn 250,000 ha of rehabilitated irrigation schemes over to farmers.



- 47 -                        ATTACHMENT
requirements for the RBC should conform to those established by WRCP4. Accordingly, some
modification in irrigation delivery should also be introduced for the LBC. This, together with the
power aspects may to some extent alter simulation model results. The losses in power generation
and irrigation shortfalls will affect the viability of the project.
OHPC Environmental Management Unit (EMU)
There seem to be a number of incompatibilities or duplications between the monitoring duties
and general functions of the EMU to be established in the Orissa Hydro Power Corporation (OHPC)
under the Power Sector Restructuring Project, and the Environmental Cell of the Orissa Water
Planning Organization (OWPO) being established in the Department of Water Resources (DOWR)
under the proposed Water Resources Consolidation Project (WRCP). A review of the terms of
reference for the ODA-supported technical assistance to the OHPC EMU indicates that a number of
its functions overlap with those of the DOWR's proposed Environmental Cell in OWPO in particular
and OWPO in general. These duplications are refer to five major reservoirs and include: (a)
establishment of a water quality monitoring program (including laboratories) for eutrophication risks
and impact on downstream habitats; (b) evaluation of strategies for reducing reservoir sedimentation;
(c) establishment of a groundwater monitoring program-, (d) monitoring and control of downstream
releases of reservoirs; and (e) monitoring fish samples and public health risks. The ODA technical
assistance will help determine the extent of environmental control and monitoring
responsibilities of OHPC, taking into account OHPC's needs as a commercially-oriented
utility (and not a government department) and activities of a governmental water resources
environmental audit agency such as DOWR and other agencies such as the Soil Conservation
Directorate.
Implementation Completion Report (ICR). According to current Bank directives, an ICR
should be prepared at the time of the final supervision mission prior to project closure. The ICR
should be delivered not later than six months after project closure. In the case of the present Indravati
Power project, the ICR mission should be undertaken prior to June 1995. Therefore, DOE should
start preparing for the ICR mission immediately, as the ICR results are an important input
for Bank appraisal of the new multi-purpose follow-on project.
Summary of Requisite Studies and Designs
The following should be completed by appraisal with technical assistance from Messrs. Harza
and other experts as necessary:
(a)   refinement of the expected sediment yield at the power intake, and for the reservoir as a
whole to (i) run mathematical and hydraulic models, and (ii) revise estimates of reservoir life;
(b)    preparation of ID and 2D mathematical models of flow and reservoir sedimentation potential
at the intake with and without the sediment diversion channel and barrier dam;
FAOCP: "Upper Indravati Irrigation Sub-Project"; Working Paper No. 3; Report No. 3/94 CP-IND 104
WPs, January 10, 1994.



- 48 -                         ATTACHMENT
(c)   following expert consultation, construct and run a hydraulic model of the upper reservoir
area to detennine the efficacy of the sediment diversion scheme and the optimal geometric
parameters of its structures (including review of the intake structure design);
(d)    undertake requisite sub-surface investigations etc. and prepare detailed designs and cost
estimates for the diversion scheme, and any hydraulic dredging needs and equipment;
(e)   review the hydraulics and sedimentation aspects of the tairace and link canal, undertake any
required supplementary sub-surface investigations to undertake any detailed design
modifications and design of appurtenant structures (including cost estimates) as necessary;
(f)    undertake detailed survey, soil investigations, hydraulic model studies (if necessary) for the
detailed design and cost estimation of works required to safely and reliably convey sustained
irrigation releases from the irrigation by-pass tunnel to the Hati Barrage;
(g)   review maintenance and economic aspects of turbine repair, and provide detailed plans and
cost estimates for workshops, skilled personnel, etc.
(h)    complete approved plans for sustainable Integrated Watershed Management;
(i)   investigate the cross-border flow requirements of the MP-O Agreement to ensure
compliance and minimize adverse dry season impacts in Madhya Pradesh;
(j)    briefly review the need for modification of the duties and functions of the OHPC's EMU in
comparison with DOWR activities under the WRCP (though detailed review will be carried
out under the ODA technical assistance);
(k)   review the 31 year synthetic flow series and revise the simulation study of UIP considering
future hydro-thermal scheduling, downstream release and WRCP irrigation requirements;
and
(1)   revise the Environmental Assessment Report to reflect the outcome of the above studies and
submit to the Bank for submission to the Board of Directors (summary) and Public
Information Center (main report).
Appraisal requirements economic rehabilitation plans for families affected by canal land acquisition
are also to be addressed prior to appraisal.
Appraisal Date
The hydraulic model studies and design of the by-pass tunnel outlet are time-consuming.
GOO has intimated that the hydraulic model of the sediment diversion scheme will take at least 12
months. GOO has therefore requested that the appraisal be undertaken on the basis of the
mathematical model studies and preliminary designs.
T. Herman, Bhubaneswar, 22.2.95






IMAGING
Report No;       15676
Type: ICR



