OFFICITS    CREDIT NUMBER 1356 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Upper Indravati Hydro Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1356 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        QL5.- -             , 1983, between
India, acting by its President/(hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide
additional assistance toward the financing of the Project and by
an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the
Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agree-
ing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to one hundred fifty-six million four hundred thousand
dollars ($156,400,000);
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures of the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in
the Loan Agreement are made;
(D) the Project will be carried out by State of Orissa with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to State of Orissa the proceeds of
the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association, the Bank
and State of Orissa;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with


﻿-2-
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requirefl, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Orissa" means the State of Orissa, a state of India,
and includes any successor thereto;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association, the Bank and Orissa of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes the
schedule to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement; and
(c) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and
such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, as made
applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to  one   hundred  fifty-six   million  Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 156,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Pro-
ject Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1991 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 1 and August 1 commencing August 1, 1993, and ending
February 1, 2033, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on February 1, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such prin-
cipal amount.


﻿-4-
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause- Orissa to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Orissa to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit and
the Loan available to Orissa in accordance with the Borrower's
standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the States
of India.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Orissa shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that Orissa
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agree-
ment.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice


﻿-5-
thereof shall haye been given by the Association to the Borrower
and Orissa.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Association has received the report referred to in
Section 3.06 of the Project Agreement; and
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Loan Agreement, except for the effectiveness of this Agreement,
have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by Orissa, and is legally bind-
ing upon Orissa in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date                             is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine on the date on which the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date thirty years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs, in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:        -
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/S   1
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit and of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of
Amount of        the Loan
the Credit       Allocated
Allocated       (Expressed        % of
(Expressed in     in Dollar     Expenditures
Category    SDR Equivalent)    Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Dams and          73,400,000     38,800,000   85%
structures
(2) Civil works       22,900,000     30,500,000   85%
for power
house
(3) Residential        5,100,000          -       85%
quarters and
buildings
(4) Roads and          3,200,000          -       85%
bridges
(5) Electrical        45,900,000     75,800,000   100% of foreign
and mechanical                                expenditures
equipment and                                 and 100% of
materials                                     local expendi-
tures (ex-
factory cost)
(6) Tools and         4,100,000           -        100% of foreign
plant                                         expenditures
and 100% of
local expendi-
tures (ex-
factory cost)


﻿-8-
Amount of
Amount of        the Loan
the Credit       Allocated
Allocated       (Expressed         % of
(Expressed in     in Dollar     Expenditures
Category    SDR Equivalent)    Equivalent)   to be Financed
(7) Fee                                 390,025   Amount due
under Section
2.05 (a) of the
Loan Agreement
(8) Unallocated      1,400,000       10,909,975
TOTAL    156,000,000      156,400,000
2.   For -the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory      .f any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association and the Bank that the
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan shall not be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof; on this basis, if the
amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of items in any
Category decreases or increases, the Association or the Bank may,
by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such Category as required to be
consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association and
the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an


﻿- 9 -
aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 9,200,000
may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) on
account of expenditures made before that date but after April 1,
1982.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
and of the Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Association or the Bank has
reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit and of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association or the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the esti-
mated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applic-
able to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association or the Bank shall have reasonably deter-
mined that the procurement of any item in any Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditure for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, and the Association
or the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Association or the Bank under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit and of the Loan as, in the Asso-
ciation's or the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to develop hydro-electric power
through construction of dams across the river Indravati and its
tributaries in the Koraput and Kalahandi districts of Orissa and
consists of the following:
Part A:   Dams Component
(i)   Indravati Dam
The construction of a masonry dam near the village of
Patrapur with a total length of 531 meters and a maximum height
of 40 meters.
(ii) Podagad Dam
The construction of an earth embankment dam near the
village of Bariaghat with a total length of 527 meters and a
maximum height of 73 meters.
(iii) Kapur Dam
The construction of an earth embankment dam near the
village of Dandaguda with a total length of 540 meters and a
maximum height of 64 meters.
(iv) Muran Dam
The construction of a composite dam of masonry and earth
filled sections near the village of Katragarh with a total length
of 484 meters and a maximum height of 61 meters.
(v)   Dykes
The construction of four dykes on each bank of the
reservoir formed by the dams totalling 2,969 meters in length and
ranging in maximum height up to 20 meters.
(vi) Link Channels
The construction of two channels to join the Indravati and
Podagad basins (1210 meter long with a maximum depth of cut 1.5


﻿- 11 -
meters) and the Kapur and Muran basins (1380 meter long with a
maximum depth of cut 16 meters), with bed width of 12.4 meters.
(vii) Site Services
The construction of roads, bridge, residential quarters and
buildings.
Part B:   Power Component
(i)   Headrace Channel
The construction of a headrace channel (from the reservoir
to the tunnel intake) 165 meters long and 50 meters wide, with a
maximum depth of cut 24 meters, and a semicircular trash rack 35
meters in diameter at the entrance to the tunnel.
(ii) Tunnel and Shafts
The construction of a horseshoe section tunnel, 4.32 kilo-
meters long with a diameter of 7 meters, to convey water from the
intake to the surge shaft and two pressure shafts, each 330
meters long and 5.2 meters in diameter.
(iii) Penstocks
The installation of four steel penstocks, 790 meters long
and 3.5 meters in diameter, to conduct the water from the valve
house to the power house.
(iv) Power House
The construction of a power house housing four 150 MW turbo
generating sets and associated electrical and mechanical equip-
ment.
(v)   Electrical and Mechanical Equipment
The acquisition and errection of four 150 MW turbo genera-
ting sets and associated electrical and mechanical equipment in
the power house to be constructed under Part B (iv) above, and
its associated sub-station.


﻿- 12 -
(vi) Tailrace Channel
The construction of a tailrace channel, 9 kilometers long
having a bed width of 20 meters and a maximum cut of 27 meters,
to conduct the water to a regulating reservoir in the Hati river
for the irrigation of about 109,000 hectares of land.
(vii) Site Services and Facilities
The construction of buildings, local power lines and sub-
stations.
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 1990.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  f        day of
198   .
FOR S1fCRETARY


