AL   REDIT NUMBER 1356 IN
OAN NUMBER    2278 IN
Project Agreement
(Upper Indravati Hydro Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF ORISSA
Dated                               1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1356 IN
LOAN NUMBER   2278 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               J             , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP-
MENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and STATE OF ORISSA, acting by
its Governor (hereinafter called Orissa).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred fifty-six million Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 156,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that Orissa agree to undertake such obligations toward the Asso-
ciation as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
one hundred fifty-six million four hundred thousand dollars
($156,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that Orissa agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the Project will be carried out by Orissa with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the pro-
ceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit
Agreement and the proceeds of the Loan provided for under the
Loan Agreement will be made available to Orissa by the Borrower;
and
WHEREAS Orissa, in consideration of the Association's and
the Bank's entering into the Development Credit Agreement and the
Loan Agreement, respectively, with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the


﻿-2-
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
applicable thereto, and in the Loan Agreement and in the General
Conditions -applicable thereto have the respective meanings there-
in set forth and the term "Board" means the Orissa State Elec-
tricity Board established under the provisions of the Electricity
(Supply) Act, 1948 of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Orissa shall carry out the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate adminis-
trative, financial, engineering and public utility practices.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works re-
quired for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Orissa undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan made
available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a- currency freely usable by Orissa to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association and the Bank may otherwise
agree, Orissa shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan made available to it
by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the purposes of the
Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Orissa shall furnish to the Association
and the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, speci-
fications, reports, contract documents and construction and pro-
curement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as    the Asso-
ciation and the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿-3-
(b) Orissa shall: (i) maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (includ-
ing its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
enable the Association's and the Bank's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish to the Association and the Bank at regular intervals all
such information as the Association and the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures of such pro-
ceeds and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by Orissa of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and of the Loan, the Association and the Bank may publish
a description thereof, the name and nationality of the party to
whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Orissa, the
Association and the Bank, Orissa shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association and the Bank shall reasonably request, on the exe-
cution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
Orissa, the Association and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit and of the Loan.
(e) Orissa shall enable the Association's and the Bank's
representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property, equipment, records and documents
relevant to the performance of Orissa's obligations under this
Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) Orissa shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation and the Bank, exchange views with the Association and the
Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters rela-
ting to the purposes of the Credit and of the Loan.


﻿-4-
(b) Orissa shall promptly inform the Association and the
Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere
with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the pur-
poses of the Credit and of the Loan, or the performance by Orissa
of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Orissa shall cause its departments and
other agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof to: (i) maintain separate records and
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
principles and procedures consistently applied, its resources,
expenditures and operations related to the project; and (ii) fur-
nish to the Association and the Bank copies of their accounts and
financial statements related to the Project for each fiscal year,
certified as to their accuracy and authenticity by an independent
auditor acceptable to the Association and the Bank, as soon as
available but in any case not later than nine months after the
end of such year.
(b) Orissa shall cause its departments and other agencies
and authorities responsible for carrying out the Project or any
Part thereof to: (i) have their accounts and financial statements
related to the Project for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Association and the Bank immediately
following its finalization, the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association and
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Association and the Bank such other information concerning
such accounts and records, financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Association and the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Orissa shall, under arrangements agreed with
the Association and the Bank, cause the dams, dykes and channels
constructed under the Project, to be periodically inspected in
accordance with sound engineering practice in order to determine
whether there are any deficiencies in the condition of such
structures, or in the quality and adequacy of maintenance or


﻿- 5 -
methods of operations of the same, which may endanger their
safety.
Section 3.03. For the purpose of resettlement of families
displaced from areas submerged as a result of the carrying out of
the Project, Orissa shall, not less than two years before causing
submergence of any land covered by the Project, formulate a
resettlement plan, with an implementation schedule, and shall
thereafter implement said plan.
Section 3.04. Orissa shall limit, in each fiscal year begin-
ning with fiscal year ending on March 31, 1984, its annual sub-
sidy to the Board in respect of rural electrification operations
to 10% of the Board's gross revenues from the sale of electri-
city, and in any case not exceeding the amount by which the
Board's operating costs in respect of rural electrification oper-
ations exceed its gross revenues from such operations in that
fiscal year.   For the purposes of this paragraph (i) the term
"operating costs" means all costs incurred by the Board on
account of its rural electrification operations, including ex-
penses of administration, maintenance and taxes or any payments
in lieu of taxes, if any, and provision for depreciation and
interest and other charges on debt; (ii) the term "gross reve-
nues" means revenues from all sources related to the Board's
rural electrification operations; (iii) the term "debt" means any
debt incurred by the Board maturing by its terms more than one
year after the date on which it is originally incurred; and (iv)
the term "incurring of debt" includes the assumption and guaran-
tee of debt and any renewal, extension or modification of the
terms of the debt or of the assumption or guarantee thereof and,
for this purpose, .debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A) under a
contract, loan agreement or other instrument providing for such
debt or for the modification of its terms of payment, on the date
and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down and out-
standing pursuant to such contract, agreement or instrument, and
(B) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement provi-
ding for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
Section 3.05. Orissa shall 'make arrangements for such water
releases for the power house to be installed under Part B of the
Project as shall be sufficient to generate energy and peak power
appropriate to the electrical demand throughout the year.


﻿-6-
Section 3.06. Orissa shall furnish to the Association and
the Bank the report resulting from the review being carried out
by the consultants of the existing construction management and
accounting procedures of the Irrigation and Power Department of
Orissa, and shall, after taking into account the comments, if
any, of the Association and the Bank, implement such recommenda-
tions arising from said report as may be accepted by Orissa.
Section 3.07. Orissa shall construct or cause to be con-
structed, by the completion date of the Project, necessary trans-
mission lines to evacuate the power generated from the facilities
installed under the Project.
Section 3.08. Upon commissioning of all the generators
included under Part B of the Project, Orissa shall transfev the
facilities to the Board on terms and conditions which shall, sub-
ject to the provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, as
amended, of the Borrower, include, inter alia, that (i) the value
of assets to be transferred shall be equivalent to the full cost,
including interest accrued during construction, of the identifi-
able power components, together with 50% of the common reservoir
costs; and (ii) the Board shall repay an amount, as a loan, equi-
valent to the value of transferred assets over a period of 25
years with a rate of interest then applicable for lending by
Orissa to the Board or 7-1/2% per annum, whichever shall be
higher, on the full value of such assets.
Section 3.09. Orissa shall cause the Board to: (i) carry on
its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility prac-
tices under the supervision of qualified and experienced manage-
ment assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; (ii) at all
times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance
with sound engineering, financial engineering and public utility
practices; and (iii) take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion and the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.10. In order to assist the Board in the intro-
duction and thereafter implementation of a commercial accounting
system, and for the timely submission of audited accounts, Orissa
shall cause the Poard to employ consultants whose qualifications,


﻿- 7 -
experience and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the
Association and the Bank.
Section 3.11. Orissa shall cause the Board to: (a) maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
tained appropriate accounting practices its operations and finan-
cial condition;
(b) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association and the Bank;
(c) beginning with the fiscal year 1984/85, furnish to the
Association and the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (i)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association and the Bank
shall have reasonably requested; and
(d) furnish to the Association and the Bank such other
information concerning said accounts, financial statements,
records and expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association and the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 3.12. Orissa shall cause the Board to introduce,
from April 1, 1984, a uniform commercial accounting system satis-
factory to the Borrower.
Section 3.13. Orissa shall cause the Board to take all
action necessary on its part to ensure that, with effect from
financial year 1984, the level of its receivables from consumers
do not exceed the equivalent of three months' billings of its
electricity sales.
Section 3.14. Orissa shall cause the Board to prepare and
furnish to the Association and the Bank by March 31, 1984 a pro-
gram to control its energy losses to acceptable levels, and to
implement said program with effect from fiscal year 1984/85.
Section 3.15. Orissa shall cause the Board to take from time
to time all such measures as shall be required to produce in each


﻿-8-
fiscal year beginning with fiscal year ending on March 31, 1983,
a contribution to investment equivalent to not less than 20% of
the annual average of its capital expenditures in respect of the
generation, transmission and distribution of electricity supply.
For the purposes of this paragraph (i) the term "contribution to
investment" means, for each fiscal year, the gross revenues from
all sources related to the Board's operations, consumer contri-
butions in aid of construction, consumer's security deposits, net
non-operating income and any amounts received by the Board as
subsidy in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 of this
Agreement less all expenses incurred on account of such operat-
ions, including expenses of administration and maintenance (ex-
cluding depreciation and other non-cash operating charges)
interest and other charges on debt (excluding interest charged to
construction), repayment of loans (including sinking fund pay-
ments, if any), and .less 4% of any accumulated arrears of
interest and principal on such loans as at the fiscal year end,
except where payments of such arrears have been made exclusively
from proceeds of new loans, taxes or payments in lieu of taxes,
if any, and cash dividends, and (ii) the term "annual average of
capital expenditures" means the average of all expenditures
incurred on account of fixed or capital assets, including in-
terest charged to construction, incurred, or on the basis of
realistic forecasts expected to be incurred, during that fiscal
year, the previous year and the next following year.
Section 3,16. For the purposes of improving the tariff
structure of the Board, Orissa shall cause the Board to review
its tariffs, and in consultation with the Borrower, to introduce.
from time to time such improvements as may be considered appro-
priate.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association, the Bank and of Orissa thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:


﻿- 9 -
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
and the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accor-
dance with their respective terms; or
(ii) a date thirty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agree-
ment terminate in accordance with their terms before the date
specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association
and the Bank shall promptly notify Orissa of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement or the
Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be gixen or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 10 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For Orissa:
Secretary to the Government of Orissa
Irrigation and Power Department
Bhubaneswar, Orissa
Cable address:
CHIEFSEC
Bhubaneswar
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Orissa may be taken or executed by a
Secretary to the Government of Orissa or such other person or
persons as Orissa shall designate in writing, and Orissa shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to
the contrary to Orissa and so long as the Development Credit
Agreement shall not have terminated prior to the termination of
the Loan Agreement: (a) the obligations of Orissa to consult
with, and to furnish information, documents, plans, reports,
records and statements to the Bank shall be satisfied to the
extent performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to
the Association; (b) the obligations of the Bank to consult with,
and to furnish information to Orissa shall be satisfied to the
extent such obligations are fulfilled by the Association; and (c)
all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or the
granting of waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be taken pursuant to


﻿- 11 -
both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement and
in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, ard all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Byh  d      'a           e
Regional Vice President
South Asia
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By/
//eginal Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF ORISSA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, Orissa shall prepare and forward
to the Association and the Bank as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information
as the Association and the Bank shall reasonably request; the
Association and the Bank will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. Orissa shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured .on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f   (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,pursuant
to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in the
evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goodh to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 13 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
India may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in India
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower, the Association and the
Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in India equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 14 -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Categories (1) and (2) of the table
set forth in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and
to be procured in accordance with the procedures described in
Part A of this Schedule, Orissa may grant a margin of preference
of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and sub-
ject to, the following.provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such informa-
tion, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
the Borrower and accepted by the Association and the Bank, a
particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic pre-
ference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the pre-
ference and the method that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by Orissa,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works for link channels, dykes, head-
race, approach channel, power house excavation, access roads,
site buildings, staff quarters and power distribution in the area
of the Project may be let on the basis of competetive bidding


﻿- 15 -
advertised locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association and the Bank.
2.   Contract for tools and plant, and miscellaneous equipment
and materials, up to an aggregate amount of equivalent to
$14,000,000 may be procured on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association and the Bank.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Orissa shall furnish to the
Association and the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invi-
tations to bid and the specifications and other bidding docu-
ments, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications
in the said documents or procedures as the Association and the
Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Association's and the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Orissa
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association and the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion and the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed
report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and
such other information as the Association and the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Association and the Bank shall, if they
determine that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Orissa and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's and the Bank's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked or prequalification
was invited.


﻿- 16 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association and the Bank promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association and the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
and the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, Orissa shall furnish to the Association and the Bank,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association and the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account and the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association and the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Association and the Bank shall, if
they determine that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Orissa and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, Orissa shall inform the
Association and the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver,
extension or change order and the reasons therefor. The Associa-
tion and the Bank, if they determine that the proposal would be
inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall prompt-
ly inform Orissa and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the         -day of
198 3
FOR ECRETARY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this    L      day of      . 198 3.
FOR SECRETARY


