Report No. PID7859
Project Name                     Pakistan-Poverty Alleviation Fund (+)
Project
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Multi Sector
Project ID                       PKPE49791
Borrower                         Government of Pakistan
Implementing Agency              Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund Company
6-A Park Road, F-8/2, Islamabad, Pakistan.
Tel:    + 92 51 253781,
+ 92 51 253225
Fax:    + 92 51 251726
Date PID Prepared                March 23, 1999
Date Initial PID Updated         June 7, 1999
Appraisal Date                   January 6, 1999
Board Date                       June 17, 1999
1.      Country/Sector Background
Pakistan's relatively rapid GDP growth rate during the 1980s resulted in
substantial decline in consumption poverty, from 46t in 1984-1985 to 34t in
1990-1991. Despite this progress, poverty remains at an unacceptably high
level and it is reported that poverty levels are beginning to rise again. One
report concludes that the number of absolute poor increased from 24 million
to 42 million between 1990 and 1995. This is consistent with the slowdown in
economic growth in the 1990s. An even more desolate picture emerges when
Pakistan's non-economic measures of poverty are examined as Pakistan's social
indicators are amongst the worst in the developing world. "Approximately 30
million people, cannot meet the minimum nutritional norms, 42 million adults
(over two-thirds of the adult population) are illiterate, 58 million people do
not have access to health facilities, 28 million people are without safe
drinking water and 87 million lack basic sanitation facilities. There are over
740,000 child deaths a year (half of them due to malnutrition), while 50t of
the children drop out of school before reaching the fifth grade. The situation
is far worse if gender, rural, urban and regional disparities are taken into
account" ..
2.      Objectives
The Bank's strategy for Pakistan is to help reduce poverty by investing in
people, raising productivity, and promoting sustainable economic growth. This
project aims to alleviate poverty and empower the rural and urban poor, by
providing them with access to resources and services. The project would
especially target women as the burden of poverty falls disproportionately on
them. This objective will be pursued through the already established
autonomous body, the Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund (PPAF). The PPAF would
support poverty alleviation programs of eligible and well governed non-
government organizations (NGOs), thereby:
Increasing incomes of poor households by providing loans and technical
support;
Empowering the poor, especially women;



Increasing access of the poor to physical infrastructure in order to improve
their livelihood opportunities; and
Enhancing the institutional capacity and financial sustainability of NGOs
through which project resources will reach the poor.
The project would also support increasing the institutional capacity and
financial sustainability of the PPAF.
3.      Project Benefits
The target population for the project are the poor and disadvantaged rural and
urban communities, especially women. It is anticipated that under-served
districts and communities that lack essential infrastructure and have high
unemployment/underemployment will be targeted. This project will support NGOs
to provide services to the poor. Benefits will accrue to the poor through:
micro-credit and income generation opportunities;
improved infrastructure in the under-served areas; and
greater economic integration of women.
It is difficult to estimate with any degree of accuracy how many people will
benefit from this project, given that some part of the funds will be used for
vertical as well as horizontal outreach. Rough estimates, however, based on
past patterns of growth suggests that the project would benefit approximately
1.2 million people (200,000 households). Though this is modest in terms of the
overall poverty prevailing in the country, it is prudent to initially
strengthen the capacity of poverty addressing institutions, to allow them to
do much more in the future.
By including infrastructure, micro-credit and capacity building, the project
better guarantees that the poor will break free from the vicious cycle of
poverty earlier than they would with a pure micro-credit operation.
The project will be complementing government efforts, especially its Social
Action Program (SAP), in improving the lives of the poor, by strengthening the
capacity of NGOs, and community based organizations (CBOs), and the private
sector, to plan and implement development projects. It will also complement
the Participatory Development Program (PDP), under the SAP, through which NGOs
are being supported to provide social sector services to the poor. To avoid
overlap with the PDP, the PPAF will not be providing grants for social sector
investments except for water supply schemes. However, it is envisaged that in
the future, once PPAF is well established, social sector facilities for which
communities are prepared to take credit will also be supported.
4.      Project Risks
Risk                                     Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
Project Objectives
1. Autonomous PPAF                      Substantial       PPAF's statutory constitution
Despite the autonomous status of                          and articles clearly articulate
PPAF, there could be government                           transparent processes for
and political interference; also                          Board's adherence. PPAF's
being a new institution it may                            General Body and BOD comprises
take much longer to initiate its                          of eminent Pakistanis with a
activities and be more susceptible                        commitment to poverty
to outside pressure                                       alleviation. As a new and
apolitical institution, PPAF is
in a position to ensure that it
incorporates best practices
worldwide and fast track its
-2-



operations.
2. Incomes of poor increase             Low               POs are expected to provide
Income of households do not                               capacity building and marketing
increase due to constrained market                        support and advise on prudent
opportunities                                             investment choices.
3. Poor, especially women,              Substantial       Procedures to mainstream women
empowered                                                 are an essential part of
Women still marginalized                                  design. The project aims to
address both economic and
social integration of women.
The PPAF intends to work only
with those POs with gender
sensitive policies. In fact,
509 of the organizations short-
listed by PPAF exclusively
focus on women. Furthermore,
PPAF through its process of
monitoring and the collection
and analysis of gender
disaggregated data would
continuously monitor and
evaluate the impact of the
project on women and ensure
better policy making and
planning.
4. Access of poor to credit and         Substantial       Appropriate targeting of poor
infrastructure                                            communities, participatory
Capture by local elite and other                          processes, and careful
possible misuses of micro-credit                          screening of  projects. Also
and grant funds                                           market based lending rates
would make PPAF's loans less
attractive to the elite who
have hijacked concessional
lending.
5. Program expansion through POs       Moderate          Strong focus on institutional
Inadequate outreach and absorptive                        and human resource development
capacity of POs, prevent expansion                        and effective capacity building
of program on large scale                                 measures to increase outreach.
6. Implementation                       Moderate         Tight eligibility criteria,
Disbursement driven implementation                        close monitoring and
supervision and reassessment of
Project size during mid-term
review.
7. Financial management                  Moderate         For PPAF, effective
Financial mismanagement by PPAF                           supervision, mandatory
and POs                                                   financial and performance
audits. For POs, three levels
-3-



of audit, disbursements linked
to performance.
Project Components
1. Micro-credit                         Moderate          Loan loss provisions by both
High delinquency rates                                    the PPAF (49) and POs (2.5-5%);
careful selection of POs with
high repayment track records;
PPAF's rigorous supervision and
audits; also cost of
delinquency built into interest
rate. However, if an event
occurs e.g. a large PO
collapsing, which, in the
opinion of IDA, adversely
affects or may affect, the
equity capital of PPAF, the
Government shall promptly
consult with IDA and prepare
and thereafter implement a
remedial action plan,
satisfactory to IDA. PPAF's
equity capital shall be deemed
adversely affected it if at any
time falls by 10% or more.
2. Community Infrastructure             Moderate          Approval of schemes by POs only
Communities not maintaining                               after strong beneficiary
schemes                                                   participation and demonstrated
willingness of communities to
contribute to operations and
maintenance.
3. Capacity Building                   Substantial         Provision of technical
Non-availability of human                                  assistance by project.
resources for capacity building
Overall Risk Rating                    Substantial
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Moderate Risk), N
(Negligible or Low Risk)
5.      Description
I.   Services to the Poor
Micro-Credit - US$45 million
This component will provide loans to POs for on-lending to individuals or
groups of individuals who meet the eligibility criteria of the PPAF. In
-4 -



consonance with sound principles of financing, POs will on-lend to the poor at
rates that ultimately cover their directly attributable credit administration
costs, loan loss, cost of funds and reasonable profit to maintain real value
of equity. A minimum lending rate will be imposed and strictly monitored by
the PPAF to ensure that POs do not on-lend PPAF funds to clients at rates
below the prevailing commercial market rate. PPAF will not on-lend to any
single PO an aggregate amount greater than 25t of the amount allocated for
micro-credit.
Most potential POs of the PPAF make a conscious effort to mainstream the poor
and women in their development work. Therefore, for the time being, PPAF will
be accepting the poverty targeting methodologies of its POs. However, in the
future, a specific working measure of poverty at the district level would be
developed by the PPAF to enable more effective targeting of the poor. Loans
will be extended to the poor, people living in disadvantaged rural and urban
communities, women, people living in under-served districts, people living in
communities with high unemployment/ underemployment; and, people living in
communities that lack essential infrastructure, for investment purposes so
that they can establish a permanent income base. Typical loan sizes are
expected to be between Rs.2,500 to Rs.15,000 (US$50 to US$300) for individuals
and between Rs.20,000 to Rs.50,000 (US$400 to US$1,000) for groups.
Community Infrastructure - US$35 million, including contingencies
This component will support, in the form of grants on a cost sharing basis,
small scale community infrastructure sub-projects. Identification of sub-
projects will be demand driven and their selection will be transparent and
based on sustainability as determined by the ability of the communities to
recover operations and maintenance costs. POs will act as intermediary
agencies, to assist communities in organizing as groups and preparing,
implementing and managing these schemes. These schemes will contribute
significantly in improving the quality of the life of the poor. Schemes will
not only provide poor communities with assets that contribute to increasing
incomes and production but will also act as investments in strengthening their
organizations. To avoid overlap with the PDP, PPAF would not be providing
grants for social sector investments, except for drinking water supply
schemes. This exception has been made as i) water supply schemes are often
used for irrigation, ii) there is immense demand for water in the poorest
areas which are the most neglected, and iii) provision of water supply is
likely to have a major beneficial impact on the quality of life of women
saving them many hours of tedious labor, and freeing them for more productive
activities and quality free time.
II. Capacity Building to Deliver Services to the Poor
Capacity Building of Partner Organizations - US$10 million, including
contingencies
This component will support, on a declining basis, in the form of grants,
capacity building of communities and POs in order to improve their
effectiveness in implementing poverty alleviation programs. The purpose of
this component is to cover the cost of the initial investment required by POs
when expanding micro-credit and/ or support services for community
infrastructure to new clients and new areas. As such, it will include initial
community mobilization costs, training of community members, direct branch
- 5 -



office costs and part of indirect regional/head office costs and overheads.
The level of support will be structured to ensure that by the end of the
Capacity Building Agreement with the PPAF, the PO will be able to assume, the
full direct operational costs of the branch office through the interest income
generated by the branch's loan portfolio. Given international best practices
in the micro-finance sector, PPAF assesses that branch level viability can be
achieved within a three year period, assuming there are 500 clients per
community organizer , there is an 18% interest rate spread, lending begins
within 3 months of social mobilization, and an average loan size of Rs.12,000
is reached by the end of year 3. Capacity building grants will be clearly
linked to enhancing the POs' capacity in delivering micro-credit and community
infrastructure
Capacity building of communities by POs would comprise training community
activists to assume leadership responsibilities at local level, providing
specialized (refer to the photo file for one such example), technical and
managerial training to community members for them to manage enterprises they
initiate with micro-credit loans and to plan and manage community
infrastructure projects.
Capacity Building of the PPAF - US$7 million, including contingencies
IDA's contribution to PPAF for capacity building will support the following:
(i) operating costs, of the PPAF, on a declining basis, this would include
training for PPAF's staff; (ii) technical assistance costs, to carry-out
various studies, and impact evaluations; and (iii) cost of fixed assets.
III. PPAF's Equity
Endowment from the Government of Pakistan - US$10 million
GOP will provide from its own resources to the PPAF, an endowment equivalent
to US$10 million, which would serve as PPAF's equity. The endowment would be
spread over a three year period, with US$2 million given prior to Board
presentation, US$4 million in August 2000 and another US$4 million in August
2001. Interest earned on the endowment will support PPAF's core institutional
costs. If the Endowment Fund is eroded as a result of PPAF incurring operating
losses, which in IDA's opinion would have a negative impact on the financial
viability of PPAF's future operations, GOP, after discussions with IDA, would
promptly initiate an inquiry to identify the events which have led to such
depletion, and develop and implement an action plan, acceptable to IDA, to
remedy these deficiencies. In addition, GOP may i) reduce the scope of the
micro-credit and grant facilities as set out in Schedule 1 of the Credit
Agreement or ii) enhance PPAF's equity.
6.      Financing
Local            Foreign         Total
Government                10                               10
IDA                       86                 4             90
Beneficiaries             7                                 7
TOTAL                     103                4             107
Proposed terms for IDA Credit:
Grace Period:            10 years
- 6-



Years to maturity        35
Commitment fee: Not to exceed one-half of one percent (1/2%) per annum
Service charge:          Three-fourths of one percent (0.75%) per annum
Expected Effectiveness Date:     July 1999
Expected Closing Date:           June 2004
7.      Implementation
Implementation period:   5 Years (July 1999 - June 2004)
Executing agency:        The Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund (PPAF)
The project will be implemented by the PPAF, an apex organization, working
with NGOs as its partners in reaching-out to the poor.
Apex Organization:
The PPAF is mandated to work as an apex institution, financing NGOs with good
track records of working with and mobilizing communities build their capacity
to handle credit and implement and maintain community infrastructure schemes.
For the present, the PPAF would accept the poverty targeting methodologies of
its POs. However, in the future, a specific working measure of poverty at the
district level would be developed by the PPAF to enable more effective
targeting of the poor.
Role of Partner Organizations (POs):
In relation to the mandate of the PPAF, POs are defined as all those NGOs,
rural support programs (RSPs), and CBOs, private sector institutions and
entities that are involved in the work of poverty alleviation through income
generating activities. POs are expected to perform the following functions,
depending upon arrangements the PPAF has with each:
Acting as intermediaries for micro-credit finance;
Mobilizing communities and providing training to them in skill enhancement,
marketing, etc.; and
Acting as intermediaries for community infrastructure schemes in the following
ways:
Assisting communities with the preparation of their proposals;
Facilitating communities in implementation of projects; and
Supervising and monitoring PPAF-financed projects.
8.      Sustainability
There are several dimensions to sustainability; i.e. of the institutions
themselves (PPAF and its POs), their programs, of individual sub-loans/sub-
projects and the cost to the government in terms of providing concessional
lending to the PPAF and its impact on the budget. These would be addressed in
the following manner:
A. Institutions and their Programs:
PPAF
Financial arrangements need to ensure that the PPAF has the financial autonomy
to be able to carry out its agenda, without fear of compromise and yet have to
exhibit high performance levels to attract additional funding. This will
depend to a large degree on the continued commitment of government, donors and
stakeholders. The following aspects are to be considered:
- 7 -



PPAF equity: GOP has decided to provide the PPAF with an equity of Rs.500
million (US$10 million), in the form of a permanent endowment. The funds will
be invested in long-term Government securities, the revenues of which will
accrue to PPAF's overall revenues. A first tranche of the endowment, in an
amount of Rs.100 million has been approved for release on May 18, 1999. Two
other tranches of Rs.200 million each will be provided at the beginning of FY
2000 and FY 2001, respectively.
Micro-credit operations: The long-term vision is to build up PPAF's equity
through retained earnings generated by its lending activities. It is also
expected that, based on solid financial performance, the PPAF would be able to
raise funds directly from the domestic financial markets. In the early years,
however, the high operating costs needed to build up the capacity of the PPAF
and its POs will exceed PPAF's financial margins. Further, the PPAF will have
to rely on the Government and the donor community, including IDA, for
providing the financial resources to be on-lent to the POs.
Community Infrastructure: The beneficiary communities would be expected to
contribute to the capital costs of infrastructure projects, including, over
the medium-term, borrowing for income-generating infrastructure investments. A
significant part of these investments will, however, need to be grant-
financed. Following the completion of the project, and on the premise that the
program and the PPAF have demonstrated their usefulness and efficiency, it is
expected that future funding would be provided from the budget and the donor
community.
Financial Performance: The PPAF would need to function as an effective and
efficient apex institution to attract donor support. In order to do this it
will have to maintain an efficient management structure, reasonable
profitability and a sound financial position. Present projections show
operating costs as a percentage of total average assets steadily going down
from 10.2t in the first year of its operations to 3.7w in the fifth year, and
steadying at 2t beyond year six. The other efficiency ratio shows personnel
cost continually declining as a percentage of operating costs. However, it is
only after the fifth year that PPAF is expected to break even. Until then,
PPAF's operating deficit will have to be absorbed, in diminishing amounts, by
the Credit proceeds. As of year six, PPAF should be able to fully cover its
operating costs, with profits rising to US$1 million by year nine. Return on
assets show a modest earning of 0.49 in the seventh year going upto lt in the
tenth year.
Partner Organizations
The strategy for POs to become sustainable would include the following:
Credit operations: POs need to be self-sustaining if they are to achieve
their outreach potential and provide access to credit to the poor on a
continuos basis. Funds for PO credit operations would be forthcoming from the
PPAF, based on PO performance, specially with regards to high repayments, low
delinquency rates and on-lending rates that will be expected to cover the PPAF
interest rate, PO overheads, and delinquency charges.
Interest rate policy for partner organizations: POs selected by PPAF would be
free to determine their on-lending rates according to their cost structure.
These are expected to range from 18-28w (excluding start up costs). POs,
however, would not be allowed to on-lend below commercial bank rate (and long-
- 8 -



term deposit rates) to avoid market distortions and abuse. POs would need to
keep their costs down, as these are the costs the poor will have to bear.
PPAF, through its institutional assessment, continuous monitoring, performance
benchmarks, and audits will need to ensure that the POs it supports are lean
institutions and that they do not take advantage of operating in a non-
competitive market.
Infrastructure and other components: Funds for these would be provided based
on selection of sub-projects that have strong beneficiary support manifested
by contributions towards capital costs in cash or kind, and full contribution
towards maintenance. In the short/medium-term, the operating costs of the PO
for delivering these services, would be financed by the PPAF. However, as a
long-term strategy, POs would be encouraged to charge communities for services
provided for infrastructure and enterprise development components. This would
also ensure that the services an intermediary provides, are market-driven and
competitive.
B. Individual Loans/Sub-Projects with Communities.
For individual projects and loans the approach would include:
Repayment of credit: For long term self-sufficiency, savings by beneficiaries
built over a period of time (5-7 years), should provide an adequate financial
resource base, for them to graduate out of the system, by using their savings
as collateral to access the market and allow POs to increase their portfolio
horizontally.
Payment to partner organizations for technical assistance: This would
encourage communities to demand those services that provide value added to
their product i.e. if they get a higher price as a result of certain
specialist input.
Maintenance of infrastructure: Schemes would only be approved based on an
assessment of the community's willingness and ability to contribute 100l
towards maintaining and operating these scheme. In view of the fact that many
of these would be income generating schemes, the enhanced earnings should
adequately cover the cost of their maintenance.
C. Costs of Grant and Concessional Lending and its Impact on the Budget:
The costs to GOP of this operations would be twofold -- grant costs for the
infrastructure and capacity building components and cost of concessional
lending to PPAF and POs for micro-credit. As 100l of the cost of
infrastructure would be passed on to the poor, with the PPAF and its POs
serving as conduits, these costs are fully justified. The capacity building
grant costs are also justified as these would allow the PPAF and its POs to
bring banking to the doorsteps of the poor, and also enable them to pursue
their agenda of social empowerment in alleviating poverty. The direct fiscal
impact of both these costs on the budget is about US$10-12 million annually (a
subsidy of approximately US$42 (Rs.2,000) per beneficiary over the life of the
Project).
Lending US$45 million for micro-credit, at concessional lending terms, i.e. at
IDA terms and below market rates will not be a direct fiscal cost to the GOP
with the exception of the foreign exchange risk borne by GOP. The rationale
for providing funds at concessional rates for micro-credit is that this would
provide the PPAF and its POs the ability to build up their equity and the
long-term sustainability of their lending services. Since POs are basically
cost-minimization pass-through organizations, the benefits would mostly flow
to the poor. In view of this, a policy of leaving money in the hands of the
- 9-



poor, particularly women, as against generating re-flows back to the
government through higher re-lending rates is also fully justified. A
potential fiscal cost over and above the exchange rate depreciation would
result from the possibility of default; i.e. the PPAF not being able to repay
GOP. This would arise due to a default by POs. PPAF's risk management measures
would ensure that debt default remain within acceptable limits and are not
passed-on to GOP.
The desirability and level of concessional public funding needs to be
regularly revisited, in line with the changing poverty status of
beneficiaries, improving financial position of the PPAF and POs and the
development of linkages between the PO and the formal financial system. The
monitoring and impact evaluation system to be established within PPAF would
enable GOP and IDA to review this issue periodically.
9.      Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector and reflected
in the Project Design
It is now becoming increasingly evident that micro-credit alone is
insufficient to address poverty. Micro-credit programs have limits and cannot
be substitutes for infrastructure projects to improve access and reduce
poverty in poor countries. Therefore, although credit has played a major role
in empowering poor people, especially poor women, it should be conceived as
one intervention in an overall strategy for poverty reduction. Other elements
in this strategy include, access to land and infrastructure and enhancement of
the capacities and business skills of the poor. In view of this the PPAF has
been designed to include all three components, and is a unique blend of a
social and micro-credit fund.
Primary lessons learned from successful social funds and micro-credit
organizations include:
Autonomy and freedom from political pressures:
This should ensure:
an autonomous status, enabling organizations to respond rapidly and
successfully to community demands, while at the same time, having transparent
financial reporting and being financially accountable for funds entrusted to
them; and
freedom from political and bureaucratic pressures.
Organizational structure:
The organizational structure should incorporate:
a streamlined organizational structure;
organizational culture of professional development institution rather than a
government agency or a charitable association;
financial, administrative and operational autonomy;
involvement of NGOs and CBOs as intermediaries;
staffing of various operational divisions by respective sector specialists,
who are professionally competent and well-motivated, operating in a system
based on merit; and
senior management appointments and approval of policy guidelines prior to
start-up.
Operational and procedural:
Operations and procedures should cover the following aspects:
decentralized processes of decision-making, project implementation and
- 10 -



supervision;
simple procedures and clear functional lines for efficient management;
flexible financing mechanisms subject to a rigorous appraisal process;
transparent selection procedures and criteria for sub-projects;
well-designed management information system;
effective monitoring and evaluation;
transparent and accountable use of funds with internal and external audits
ensuring compliance; and
capacity building of community organizations and NGOs.
Program interventions:
Program interventions should incorporate:
demand driven mechanisms for project generation, with effective grassroots
participation;
mechanisms for cost recovery and operations and maintenance as part of the
approval criteria for sub-projects; and
a sense of ownership of sub-projects by communities, not only through cost-
sharing, but also by promoting a clear understanding of the rights and
responsibilities of the users and providers.
Micro-credit operations:
Micro-credit operations should ensure the following:
complete separation of credit and non-credit operations to avoid overlap of
loan and grant based operations;
loans priced to fully cover costs;
strengthening of POs through technical assistance for institutional
development; and
credit combined with skills development, marketing assistance etc. for poor,
for greater impact.
Autonomy and freedom from political pressure:
The PPAF has been established as a non-government, legally autonomous
organization to protect it from political influence and patronage. The
Companies Ordinance under which the Fund has been incorporated, ensures its
autonomy and clearly identifies the role of the Board and the CEO.
One of the 'cardinal principles' of PPAF as enshrined in its Articles and
Memorandum of Association, states that: "the Board of Directors, shall
ensure that the resources of the company shall not be used for political
patronage or for any other political purposes".
The selection of the members of the Board through the General Body will
provide a safeguard against political and government pressures. Also, once the
budget and the general policies and guidelines are approved and endorsed by
the Board of Directors, the day-to-day management of PPAF will be the sole
responsibility of the CEO and not the Board.
Organizational structure:
The General Body and the Board are at the top of the hierarchy, followed by
the Chief Executive and the Management. The Management includes five separate
divisions for: 1. Credit and Enterprise Development; 2. Community
Infrastructure; 3. Human Resource Development; 4. Monitoring, Evaluation and
Research; and 5. Finance and Accounts.
Operations will be implemented through decentralized field offices, with clear
allocation of roles and responsibilities between the central and field offices
in each province.



The Board of the PPAF has appointed a Chief Executive and senior management
through transparent and merit-based procedures.
Operational and procedural/ program interventions/ micro-credit operations:
The Operational Manual of the PPAF incorporates most of the lessons identified
above in terms of operations, procedures, program interventions and micro-
credit operations. The inclusion of NGOs as POs, and the transparency of the
selection and approval criteria of POs and sub-projects, is reflected in the
operational manual, as is monitoring and evaluation. Continuous capacity
building of the PPAF and its POs is also a key operational feature.
10.     Environmental Aspects
Environmental Category   [ ] A   [?] B     [ ] C
Subprojects and schemes will be small in scale and maintenance by communities
will guarantee effective use of natural resources, thereby, ensuring an
environmentally benign project. The Operations Manual specifically requires
the PPAF to appraise the Environmental Assessment (EA) policies and procedures
of potential POs against its EMF Guidelines. The EMF Guidelines suggest
policies and procedures for environmental management, and provides simple
tools for early screening of activities to ensure that they are subject to an
adequate, but not unnecessarily burdensome, level of environmental assessment
and mitigation. The EMF Guideline is designed to ensure that, in its
implementation, POs comply with the World Bank's Safeguard Policies. PPAF
engaged the services of a leading environmental consulting firm in Pakistan to
complete the EMF Guidelines.
11.     Program Objective Categories     Sustainable development
12.     Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Task Leader
Qazi Azmat Isa
(Tel: 92 51 819781 ext. 317)
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 18, 1999.
- 12 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
A Profile of Poverty in Pakistan. Mahbub-ul-Haq Center for Human Development,
Islamabad. February 1999.
Draft Chapter on Poverty Alleviation for the Ninth Five Year Plan (1998 - 2003),
Government of Pakistan, Planning Commission, December 1998.
Although this figure is considerably higher than the international standard of 250-300
clients per field officer, this variance can be explained by two factors. Firstly, the
practice of RSPs in Pakistan is to mobilize clients into community organizations of 25
members, rather than the Grameen style solidarity groups of five. Further, the RSP
model compensates with a higher than usual supervisory cost as there is one Regional
Office MF Specialist employed for every two field officers.
- 13 -



