Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19316-PAK
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 66.5 MILLION
(US$90 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
TIHE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
POVERTY ALLEVIATION FUND PROJECT
MAY 19,1999
Finance and Private Sector Development Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = PK Rupees (Rs.)
Rupee 50.00 = US$ 1.00
Rupee 1.00 = US$ 0.02
(April, 1999)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS USED
ADBP                Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
BOD                 Board of Directors
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CBOs                Community Based Organizations
CEO                 Chief Executive Officer
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
FMS                 Financial Management Systems
FY                  Fiscal Year
GOP                 Government of Pakistan
M&E                 Monitoring and Evaluation
MER                 Monitoring Evaluation & Research
MIS                 Management Information System
NGOs                Non Government Organizations
PCR                 Project Completion Report
PDP                 Participatory Development Program
PIP                 Project Implementation Plan
PMR                 Project Management Report
PPAF                Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund
PPAFP               Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
POs                 Partner Organizations
QPR                 Quarterly Progress Report
RSPs                Rural Support Programs
SAP                 Social Action Program
SHGs                Self-Help Groups
VOs                 Village Organizations
WCIRC               Women in Credit Information and Resource Center
WOs                 Women's Organizations
Vice President:         Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:       Sadiq Ahmed
Sector Manager:         Marilou Jane D. Uy
Task Leader:            Qazi Azmat Isa



Pakistan
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
A. Project Development Objective                                                         2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators                   2
B. Strategic Context                                                                     2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project                               2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                     2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices             5
C. Project Description Summary                                                           6
1. Project components                                                             6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                  8
3. Benefits and target population                                                 8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                  8
D. Project Rationale                                                                     20
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                     21
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies  21
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                       22
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                               23
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                    24
E. Summary Project Analyses                                                              24
1. Economic                                                                       24
2. Financial                                                                      25
3. Technical                                                                      28
4. Institutional                                                                  28
5. Social                                                                         28
6. Environmental assessment                                                       29
7. Participatory approach                                                         29
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                              30
1. Sustainability                                                                 30
2. Critical risks                                                                 32
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                 33



G. Main Loan Conditions                                                                   34
1. For negotiations                                                               34
2. Prior to Board presentation                                                     34
3. Conditions of effectiveness                                                     34
4. Covenants                                                                       34
H. ]Readiness for Implementation                                                          36
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          36
Annexes
Annex 1            Project Design Summary
Annex 2            Picture Portfolio
Annex 3            Detailed Project Description
Annex 4            Estimated Project Costs
Annex 5            Financial Forecasts for the PPAF
Annex 5.1          Review of Financial Management Systems - PPAF
Annex 5.2          Review of Financial Management Systems - NRSP
Annex 5.3          Assessment of Project for PMR-Based Disbursements - FMS
Annex 5.4          PMR Formats for FMS
Annex 6            Financial Summary
Annex 6.1          Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A            Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B            Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C            Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 6.2          Assessment of Project for PMR-Based Disbursements - Procurement
Annex 6.3          PMR Formats for Procurement
Annex 7            Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8            Documents in Project File
Annex 9            Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10           Country at a Glance
Annex 11           Environmental Data Sheet
Annex 12           Social Data Sheet



Pakistan
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
Finance & Private Sector Development
Date: May 19, 1999                                Task Leader: Qazi Azmat Isa
Country Director: Sadiq Ahmed                     Sector Manager: Marilou Jane D. Uy
Project ID: 49791      Sector: Multi Sector       Program Objective Category: Poverty Reduction
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment and Maintenance  Program of Targeted Intervention:   [X] Yes  [ ] No
Loan
Project Financing Data           [] Loan       [X] Credit       [] Guarantee      [  Other (Specify]
Amount (US$ m): SDR 66.5 million (US$90 million)
Proposed terms:                        []  Multi-currency    [X] Single currency
Grace period (years): 10          []   Standard Variable  []  Fixed
Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: Not to exceed one-half of one percent (1/2%) per annum
Service charge: Three-fourths of one percent (0.75%) per annum
Financing Plan (US$ m):
Source                                                   Local             Foreign          Total
Government                                                  10                                  10
IDA                                                         86                  4               90
Beneficiaries                                                7                                   7
Total         103                  4              107
Borrower: The Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Guarantor: The Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Responsible Agency: Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund (PPAF)
Estimated Disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):   2000       2001       2002       2003    2004
Annual      9          9          14        23       35
Cumulative      9         18         32         55      90
Project Implementation Period:   5 years
Expected Effectiveness Date:  July, 1999
Expected Closing Date:        June, 2004



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective (see Annex I for key performance indicators):
The project aims to alleviate poverty and empower the rural and urban poor, by providing them with access to
resources and services. The project would especially target women as the burden of poverty falls
disproportionately on them. This objective will be pursued through the already established autonomous body, the
Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund (PPAF). The PPAF would support poverty alleviation programs of eligible
and well governed non-government organizations (NGOs), thereby:
* Increasing incomes of poor households by providing loans and technical support;
* Empowering the poor, especially women;
* Increasing access of the poor to physical infrastructure in order to improve their livelihood opportunities; and
* Enhancing the institutional capacity and financial sustainability ofNGOs through which project resources
will reach the poor.
The project would also support increasing the institutional capacity and financial sustainability of PPAF.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 15115-PAK                Date of latest CAS discussion: January 1999
The Pakistan Country Assistance Strategy aims to help reduce poverty by investing in people, raising
productivity, and promoting sustainable economic growth. The proposed project would support the CAS
objectives by:
* Improving economic conditions of the poor by providing them with access to micro-credit and non-
lending services for income-generation activities;
* Investing in productive infrastructure with community participation by not only involving communities in
the decision making process, but also providing small-scale labor-intensive development to enhance
opportunities for income-generation; and
X Investing in institutional and human resource development.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1 Sector Issues
Pakistan's relatively rapid GDP growth rate during the 1980s resulted in substantial decline in consumption
poverty, from 46% in 1984-1985 to 34% in 1990-1991. Despite this progress, poverty remains at an
unacceptably high level and it is reported that poverty levels are beginning to rise again. One report1
concludes that the number of absolute poor increased from 24 million to 42 million between 1990 and 1995.
This is consistent with the slowdown in economic growth in the 1990s. An even more desolate picture
emerges when Pakistan's non-economic measures of poverty are examined as Pakistan's social indicators are
amongst the worst in the developing world. "Approximately 30 million people, cannot meet the minimum
nutritional norns, 42 million adults (over two-thirds of the adult population) are illiterate, 58 million people
do not have access to health facilities, 28 million people are without safe drinking water and 87 million lack
basic sanitation facilities. There are over 740,000 child deaths a year (half of them due to malnutrition), while
50% of the children drop out of school before reaching the fifth grade. The situation is far worse if gender,
rural/urban and regional disparities are taken into account"2.
A Profile of Poverty in Pakistan. Mahbub-ul-Haq Center for Human Development, Islamabad. February 1999.
2 Draift Chapter on Poverty Alleviation for the Ninth Five Year Plan (1998 - 2003), Government of Pakistan, Planning
Commission, December 1998.



Page 3
In order to better understand the implications of poverty, the percentage of the poor in Pakistan, according to
various definitions of poverty, have been depicted in the graph below.3.
Pakistan's Poverty Pyramid
40 .-
Peopl  30                                                        Basic Needs
in                                                           E3t Caloric Intake
Poverty                                        M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Income Poverty
(%)                                                           S Poverty of Opportunity Index
* Human Poverty Index
Factors that hamper efforts to alleviate poverty in the country include the following:
Isolation of women:
Women and girls in poor households bear a disproportionately high share of the burden of poverty. Their
greater deprivation is due to: (i) low social status, (ii) lower endowment of land and productive assets
compared to men, and (iii) very limited access to economic options and social services. According to the
newly developed Poverty of Opportunity Index, more than half the women in Pakistan suffer poverty of
opportunity compared to one third of men. Empowerment of women will only come with economic
independence. Currently, development programs have focused only on social development, without seriously
looking at the productive role women play in everyday lives. The traditional activities for women in Pakistan
often relate to social welfare and relief activities, e.g., health, nutrition, family planning etc., with limited
attention paid to the economic development activities initiated in agriculture, animal husbandry, cottage
industry and micro-enterprise. Expecting women to take on the responsibility of bringing about a change by
merely engaging in traditional ways of increasing their resources will forever bar them from the economic gain
that men may achieve through access to credit, support for micro-enterprise, introduction of modern
techniques in agriculture, of better varieties of seeds, fertilizers, etc. This is sure to increase the economic
bridge between men and women. Where movement of women is limited to their village or neighborhood, such
a development approach may hinder rather than help the living conditions of women.
Access to services:
Access to services is grossly deficient and is one of the main causes why substantial poverty persists
throughout Pakistan. This lack of access to both productive resources and social services has resulted in low
indicators of well being and lack of employment opportunities. The situation is compounded in rural areas,
where access is even more difficult due to the inadequacy or complete lack of basic infrastructure. Yet, it is in
areas such as these that a large number of the poor live (See Annex 2 for a snapshot of communities in
Balochistan). Government interventions have had little impact, as they have largely failed to involve intended
beneficiaries, especially women, in any meaningful way. Gender disaggregated indicators confirrn this state of
affairs.
A Profile of Poverty in Pakistan. Mahbub-ul-Haq Center for Human Development, Islamabad. February 1999.



Page 4
Low skill levels:
Due to low skill levels, communities not only require access to resources but also need support in terms of
training and skill and human resource development.
Access to credit:
*  Traditional financial institutions have shied away from supporting small businesses and self employment
because of high administrative costs and the non availability of collateral. As such, the informal provision
of credit (money lenders, traders, family and friends) is often the only method of access to credit for the
rural and urban poor. However, as the effective annual rates of interest in the informal sector range from
80% to 120% per annum, this source of credit proves very expensive for the poor and leaves little for
savings or investment.
*  Recognizing the need of the poor, the government has tried to introduce several schemes through public
financial institutions such as Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan (ADBP), Small Business Finance
Corporation (SBFC) and the Self Employment Program. However, Government promoted credit schemes
have generally not reached the target market, having been hijacked by the influential due to their
concessionary interest rates.
*  A feasible alternative to both the formal and the informal sources of micro-finance is through the credit
programs of NGOs. Over a dozen very strong NGOs, with impressive institutional capacity, have emerged
over the past decade that could serve as potential partner organizations (POs) for the PPAF. Nonetheless,
these too suffer from the following:
* sustainability of NGOs is a serious concern as donor funding is erratic, and limited mostly to a few
NGOs.
•  cost effectiveness of delivery by NGOs, barring a few exceptions, has not been comprehensively
tested, or compared with the public sector.
•  NGOs involved in integrated productive activities are unable to raise working capital due to the real
estate collateral requirements of commercial banks.
*  NGOs in Pakistan have traditionally not charged market rates or rates reflecting the actual cost of
capital (including overheads) for their on-lending rates for micro-credit.
Micro-Credit Programs of NGs:
Efficient NGOs have greatly reduced procedural requirements and formalities for loan approval and most of them
deliver credit at the doorstep of the poor, requiring only social collateral for their loans. Nonetheless, providing
financial services to the poor, is an expensive and challenging proposition for the NGOs. The reasons for this
include:
*  Nature of micro-credit transactions and unit loan size: These involve delivery of small loan amounts
generally with short-term maturities, requiring frequent repayments to low income groups which do not have
tangible collateral. They also require intensive monitoring of the borrowers to ensure a high recovery rate,
further raising transaction costs. A major variable which impacts dramatically on the costs of an NGO is the
size of the loans that it makes. The cost of delivering a loan of Rs.5,000 is far higher than a loan of Rs. 10,000.
Two local NGOs, the National Rural Support Program (NRSP) and Kashf, conscious of their sustainability
and charging interest rates close to their costs, have effective interest rates of 20% and 38% with average loan
sizes of Rs.15,000 and Rs.4,500 respectively. Similarly, in Bangladesh, a highly sophisticated market with
NGOs charging interest rates reflective of their costs, BRAC, with one of the lowest average loan size of
lk.3,913 (Rs.4,304), charges the highest interest rate in the market of 30%; whereas Proshika, with the an
average loan size of Tk.6,079 (Rs.6,687), charges the lowest interest rate in the market of 18%.
*  Characteristics of client: Borrowers are mostly poor, with hardly any education, low levels of skills, and
little or no collateral. Their mobility is also high due to limited opportunities and lack of ownership of
physical assets.
*  Iypes of localities served and area of operation: Most clients are located in remote rural areas or urban
slums, making access difficult and delivery and recovery of loans expensive. Costs forNGOs vary greatly
depending upon their area of operations. For instance, the unit cost of delivering credit in ruralBalochistan is
1 00O%-1 50% higher than in urban Karachi.



Page 5
* Characteristics of businesses financed: A very high percentage of businesses, particularly in the rural areas,
is livestock and agriculture related which carries high risks and uncertainties and varying rates of return.
Micro-businesses also suffer from lack of market information to assess risks and future prospects.
2.2 Government's Strategy
Poverty in Pakistan is being addressed through a four-pronged strategy.
* The Government is striving to create the basis for strong, sustainable growth over the medium-term, by
pursuing a program of macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms.
* The Government embarked on the Social Action Program (SAP) in 1993, recognizing that human resource
development, especially expanded and more effective provision of social services to the population, is
critical to poverty alleviation. In 1997, SAP II was launched to further the objectives of the original
program. A key component of SAP is the Participatory Development Program (PDP), which supports
social service delivery by NGOs.
* Along with strengthening the social sectors, the government established the PPAF in February 1997, to
provide employment opportunities and credit for micro-enterprises to the poor. To be consistent with SAP
policies and to avoid overlap with PDP, PPAF would not be providing grants for social sector investments
except for drinking water supply schemes, as these are quite often also used for irrigation. There is also
very high demand for water specially in the poorest areas which are the most neglected. Provision of water
supply is also likely to have a major beneficial impact on the quality of life of women saving them many
hours of tedious labor and freeing them for more productive activities and quality free time.
*  For the very poor, Pakistan's social safety net is being strengthened by shifting from untargeted to targeted
subsidy programs. The two government operated targeted income transfer programs for the poor, namely
the Zakat Fund and the Bait-ul-Mal, have been in place since 1980 and 1992 respectively. However, these
programs suffer from leakages, partial coverage, and inadequacy of benefits.
It is envisaged that linkages between the PPAF and Government programs would evolve gradually at the
provincial level, especially after the establishment of the PPAF provincial steering committees and field offices.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
3.1 Sector Issues to be Addressed
The project specifically addresses sector issues by:
*  Targeting and empowering the poor, especially women, with appropriate interventions including provision
of credit, infrastructure and capacity building. Most large NGOs, i.e. potential POs of the PPAF have
policies to ensure that their programs are targeted towards the poor. See section E-5 for details. These
policies have been incorporated in PPAF's Operational Manual.
*  Increasing the active participation of women in the developmental process. NGOs in Pakistan have
already been making a conscious effort to mainstream the poor and women in their development work.
*  Establishing demand driven mechanisms for project generation, with strong local ownership to ensure
sustainability, relevance and social cohesion. Participatory methodologies ofNGOs would ensure demand
driven needs.
*  Expanding and strengthening the role of NGOs through capacity building. See F- I for how sustainability
of POs will be addressed.
*  Establishing mechanisms that would monitor and evaluate cost and program effectiveness.



Page 6
3.2 Strategic Choice
This project aims to reach out to poor communities throughout the country and empower them by providing
them with access to resources and services. The experience of discrete, stand-alone community projects, with
similar objectives but working with government departments, has not been satisfactory. A program approach
outside of government departnents is considered to have better chances of success as, worldwide, experience
has shown that autonomous institutions can be an effective way of reducing poverty by delivering better
services than the public sector.
In view of the above, supporting the PPAF -- a performance driven institution, mandated to work with the
poor, for the poor -- is a better strategy to address sector issues. PPAF's non-political nature, governance
structure, autonomy and mission are ideally placed to make a major impact on alleviating poverty. Moreover,
as a new institution, PPAF does not carry any institutional baggage or culture that so often is a hindrance to
efficient management. Being new would enable it to incorporate important lessons and best practices from
sirnilar institutions worldwide, ensuring benefit of hindsight and fast track operations.
Other altematives that were considered and reasons for their rejection are provided in D- 1.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 3for a detailed description andAnnex 4for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                 Category        Cost Incl.    % of   Bank-      % of
Contingencies  Total  financing   Bank-
____ELM(US$M)      (US$M)  financing
I. Services to the Poor
(i) Micro-Credit                  Credit             45        42       45         50
(ii) Community Infrastructure    Physical            35        33       28         31
Infrastructure
Sub Total                          80        75       73        81
II. Capacity Building to Deliver
Services to the Poor
(iii) Capacity Building of POs  Institution Building,  10       9       10        11
Training
(iv) Capacity Building of the   Institution Building,  7        7        7         8
PPAF                    Project & Financial
Management,
Training
Sub Total                          17        16       17        19
m. PPAF's Equity
(v) Endowment from GOP          Equity               10        9         -
Total      107       100       90       100



Page 7
I. Services to the Poor
Services to the poor will include micro-credit and community infrastructure. Recognizing that each component
will be demand driven, the project would allow PPAF the flexibility to disburse according to the demand of the
communities for either component. Projections to estimate demand have been based on past performance of
selected NGOs. For details refer to E-2.
Micro-Credit
Under the micro-credit component, loans will be provided to POs for on-lending to individuals or groups of
individuals who meet the eligibility criteria of the PPAF. POs will be required to lend at rates that ultimately
cover their directly attributable credit administration funding costs, loan loss and cost of funds. A minimum
lending rate will be imposed by PPAF to ensure that on-lending is not below commercial rates. PPAF will not on-
lend to any single PO an aggregate amount greater than 25% of the amount allocated for micro-credit.
Community Infrastructure
The community infrastructure component will support, in the form of grants on a cost sharing basis, small scale
community infrastructure sub-projects. Identification of sub-projects will be demand driven and their selection
will be transparent and based on sustainability as determined by the ability of the communities to recover
operations and maintenance costs. POs will assist communities in organizing as groups and preparing,
implementing and managing these schemes. PPAF will not provide to any single PO an aggregate amount greater
than 20% of the amount allocated for this component.
II. Capacity Building to Deliver Services to the Poor
Capacity Building of POs
This component will support grants, on a declining basis, for capacity building of POs (and through them, of
communities) in order to improve their effectiveness in implementing poverty alleviation programs. Capacity
building grants for POs will finance their operating costs, thereby supporting their community mobilization
efforts and participatory approaches that enable them to plan, implement and manage development initiatives.
Capacity building of communities by POs would comprise training community activists to assume leadership
responsibilities at the local level, providing specialized, technical and managerial training to community members
for them to manage enterprises they initiate with micro-credit loans. Capacity building grants will be clearly
linked to enhancing the POs' capacity in delivering micro-credit and community infrastructure.
Capacity Building of the PPAF
IDA's contribution to the PPAF for capacity building will support operating costs, on a declining basis, capital
costs, as well as technical assistance and training for PPAF staff.
III. PPAF's Equity
Endowmentfrom GOP
GOP will provide from its own resources to the PPAF, an endowment equivalent to US$10 million, which would
serve as PPAF's equity. The payment of the endowment would be spread over a three year period, with US$2
million given prior to Board presentation, US$4 million in August 2000 and another US$4 million in August
2001. Interest earned on the endowment will support PPAF's core institutional costs. If the Endowment Fund is
eroded as a result of PPAF incurring operating losses, which in IDA's opinion would have a negative impact on
the financial viability of PPAF's future operations, GOP, after discussions with IDA, would promptly initiate an
inquiry to identify the events which have led to such depletion, and develop and implement an action plan,
acceptable to IDA, to remedy these deficiencies. In addition, GOP may i) reduce the scope of the micro-credit
and grant facilities as set out in Schedule I of the Credit Agreement or ii) enhance PPAF's equity.



Page 8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The formation of the PPAF through Government initiative is, in itself, a key paradigm shift and institutional
reform by the Government. It is, further, a recognition of the role ofNGOs, especially in the provision of services
to the poor, including financial ones. It is envisaged that, in the future, the PPAF would play a role in setting
performance standards and developing an operational framework for micro-creditNGOs, as presently, there are
no specific provisions relating to NGOs engaged in micro-credit. The functions of commercial banks,
development financial institutions and investment banks are supervised by prudential regulations, the State Bank
of Pakistan (SBP) acting as the chief regulatory and supervisory authority for these institutions4. PPAF, therefore,
could set performance standards for micro-finance NGOs, including minimum capital requirements, loan
portfolio quality, earnings, bad debt provisioning, risk management, internal controls, background check on
founding members/management etc. The PPAF will be undertaking a study on the legal regulatory and policy
framework for the micro-finance sector in Pakistan, as a prelude to deciding its own role in setting standards.
3. Benefits and target population:
*  The target population for the project are the poor and disadvantaged rural and urban communities, especially
women. This project, through the PPAF, will support NGOs provide services to the poor. The PPAF will
initially rely on the targeting methodologies of its POs in identifying the poor. However, preference will be
given to NGOs working in under-served districts and with communities that lack essential infrastructure and
have high unemployment or underemployment. Benefits will accrue to the poor through:
*  micro-credit and income generation opportunities;
improved infrastructure in the under-served areas; and
greater economic integration of women.
*  It is difficult to estimate with any degree of accuracy how many people will benefit from this project, given
that some part of the funds will be used for vertical as well as horizontal outreach. Rough estimates based on
past patterns of growth, however, suggest that the project would benefit approximately 1.2 million people
(200,000 households). Though this is modest in terms of the overall poverty prevailing in the country, it is
prudent to also focus on strengthening the capacity of poverty addressing institutions, to allow them to do
rnuch more in the future.
*  By including infrastructure, micro-credit and capacity building in its agenda, the project is better equipped to
free the poor from the vicious cycle of poverty sooner than would a pure micro-credit operation.
* The project will be complementing Government efforts, especially its Social Action Program (SAP), in
improving the lives of the poor by strengthening the capacity of NGOs, community based organizations
(CBOs), and the private sector to plan and implement development projects. It will also complement the
Participatory Development Program (PDP), under the SAP, through which NGOs are being supported to
provide social sector services to the poor. To avoid overlap with the PDP, the PPAF will not be providing
grants for social sector investments except for water supply schemes. However, it is envisaged that, once
PPAF is well established, social sector facilities for which communities are prepared to take credit will also
be supported.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 5 Years (July 1999 - June 2004)
Executing agency:    Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund (PPAF)
4.1 Implementing Methodology
The project will be implemented by the PPAF, an apex organization, working with NGOs as its partners in
reaching-out to the poor. The following flow chart gives an overview of the implementation methodology:
4 The SBP does not allow institutions (including NGOs) other than commercial banks, development financial institutions and
investment banks to accept deposits.



Page 9
Beneficiaries submit proposals to POs for micro-credit and community
infrastructure sub-projects for implementation by them
v
POs appraise beneficiaries and sub-projects according to their eligibility criteria
and submit proposals to PPAF for funding
PPAF appraises POs that meet its eligibility criteria and continuously
monitors, evaluates and audits their perfonnance
Terms and conditions between the PPAF and the POs and between the POs and the beneficiaries would be
clearly laid out in their respective Terms of Partnership.
Apex Organization:
The PPAF is mandated to work as an apex institution, financingNGOs with good track records of working with
and mobilizing communities build their capacity to handle credit and implement and maintain community
infrastructure schemes. For the present, the PPAF would accept the poverty targeting methodologies of its POs.
However, in the future, a specific working measure of poverty at the district level would be developed by the
PPAF to enable more effective targeting of the poor.
Partner Organizations:
In relation to the mandate of PPAF, POs are defined as all those NGOs, rural support programs (RSPs), CBOs,
and private sector institutions and entities that are involved in the work of poverty alleviation through income
generating activities. POs are expected to perform the following functions, depending upon arrangements the
PPAF has with each:
X  Acting as intermediaries for micro-credit finance;
*  Mobilizing communities and providing training to them in skill enhancement, marketing, etc.; and
*  Acting as intermediaries for community infrastructure schemes in the following ways:
* assisting communities with the preparation of their proposals;
facilitating communities in implementation of projects; and
* supervising and monitoring PPAF-fmanced projects.
4.2 Overview of the PPAF
Objectives:
The PPAF was established in February, 1997, as a non-profit, public company limited by guarantee, under
Section 42 of the Companies Ordinance 1984. It has been established with the objective of 'helping the poor,
landless and assetless in order to enable them to gain access to resources for their productive self-employment,
to encourage them to undertake activities of income generation and poverty alleviation and for enhancing their
quality of life' (PPAF's Memorandum of Association). This principal objective is to be achieved through the
following:
*  Provision of credit to various POs to assist them expand their poverty targeted micro-credit programs;
* Provision of grants, on a cost-sharing basis, to poor rural and urban communities for community
infrastructure development; and
*  Enhancing the institutional capacity and financial sustainability of the PPAF, POs and communities.
Governance Structure:
PPAF was initially sponsored by the Government. In consultation with civil society, the Government chose the



Page 1 0
initial General Body and Board members, who are nationally well respected professionals of integrity. All policy
and operational decision making rests fully with PPAF's Board and General Body (as stated below), without any
requirement for approvals by the Government. Because it is a public company limited by guarantee, PPAF's
shareholders (i.e. General Body members) have undertaken to contribute a maximum of Rs. 1,000 (about US$20)
to repay the debts and liabilities of the cornpany, in case of liquidation.
PPAF's governance structure, as articulated by its Articles of Association, best assures an independent, non-
political organization, that has the potential to be efficiently and transparently managed. The Articles give PPAF
full authority to enter into contracts, recruit staff on a competitive basis, and establish its own personnel and
operating policies and procedures, including procurement and disbursement. Furthermore, they prescribe a
three-tier governance structure, comprising of a General Body, a Board of Directors (including an executive
bod;y of the Board), and Management Team headed by a Chief Executive Officer (CEO).
*  The General Body provides overall policy guidance and direction; reviews and approves the Annual Report,
budget and accounts; and appoints auditors, amongst other functions. It may have membership of up to 50 -
12 from the Government and 38 from civil society, including 11 fromNGOs, 7 from CBOs, and 20 from the
academia, the business community and other professional areas, having a track record of service in
development.
*  The Board of Directors (BOD) is a 12 member supervisory body comprising of: 3 directors appointed by
the Government, 8 directors from civil society, and the CEO. All Directors are members of the General
Body. The Board elects a Chairperson from amongst themselves for a period of 3 years (the present
Chairman is a leading businessman from the private sector, and is one of the Government nominees).
Functions of the Board include: appointing the CEO; reviewing progress; setting operational policies and
procedures, including eligibility criteria for POs; authorizing the opening and closing of bank accounts; and
establishing and amending service rules etc. The Board also reviews and approves the annual budget and the
Annual Report, prior to these being presented to the General Body. Organizations represented by members
of the BOD are not eligible for funding from the PPAF.
*  Trhe Executive Committee of the Board comprises of 5 Board members, including the CEO, and exercises
powers delegated to it by the Board. The main functions of the Executive Committee is to approve requests
for financial support from POs after their proposals have been appraised and recommended by the
Management.
The Chief Executive and the Management Team. The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) heads the Management
Team. The CEO is a suitably qualified national of Pakistan appointed by the Board upon terms and
conditions it deems fit. The statutory functions of the CEO are prescribed by the Companies Ordinance and
P'PAF's Articles. In specific terms, the CEO is responsible for the day to day operations of the PPAF
including the following: i) ensuring adherence to the cardinal principles of the PPAF; ii) establishing the
values, operational policies and procedures of the PPAF, and proper administration of its affairs, funds and
resources; iii) recruiting staff within the financial and other parameters approved by the BOD; iv) assigning
duties and responsibilities to staff, exercising supervision and disciplinary control over their work and
conduct; v) instituting, conducting, defending or abandoning any legal proceedings by or against the PPAF
and referring any claims by or against the PPAF to arbitration; and vi) undertaking any other tasks
delegated by the BOD, and delegating, in writing, such of his powers as he may consider necessary to any
officer of the PPAF. The CEO is assisted by core executives who are senior sector specialists heading the
following functional units of the PPAF:  1. Credit and Enterprise Development;  2. Community
Infrastructure; 3. Human Resource Development; 4. Monitoring, Evaluation and Research; and 5. Finance
and Accounts. The core executives are appointed by the BOD at the recommendation of the CEO.
*  The functions of the Management include, amongst others, the following:
* ensuring that PPAF's cardinal principles are adhered to
• proper administration of funds and resources
* screening of POs applying for registration
• monitoring the work of POs



Page 1 1
authorizing disbursements reflecting financial progress from POs, and arranging for suitable budgets
and financial reports, etc.
* The organogram of the PPAF is included in the Documents in Project File (See Annex 8).
4.3 Overview of NGOs
The NGO sector in Pakistan, in terms of numbers, has grown rapidly in the last two decades. Even a modest
estimate indicates that there are close to 10,000 NGOs in the country, of which at least 5,000 are active.
Approximately 70% of these NGOs are located in urban areas and 30% in rural areas -- in inverse relation to the
population and poverty distribution. More than half are working at the community level, 25% at the district and
tehsil (sub-district) level, and about 2% at the national level. Most of theNGOs are welfare-oriented. The largest
number are single-community or village based groups run by volunteers, with minimal administrative structures.
NGOs obtain legal status to qualify for financial assistance from Government agencies, open a bank account in
the name of the NGO, sign contracts, and offer personal indemnity to its members. Their capacity to deliver
development initiatives, nonetheless, remains limited. However, the growth of support organizations and the
initiatives being undertaken by them are helping develop capacity within smaller organizations to undertake a
larger development and economic agenda. Two types of support organizations have emerged, one that supports
existing organizations, and the other, RSPs, which create their own village level organizations. The nature of
support is fairly similar in both models and includes capacity building, micro-credit, infrastructure grants,
agricultural extension and a range of social services.
The Rural Support Programs:
Presently, there are nine RSPs in the rural support network. Five of these - the Aga Khan RSP (AKRSP),
Balochistan RSP (BRSP), National RSP (NRSP), Sarhad RS Corporation (SRSC) and the Punjab RSP (PRSP)
are prominent and share several common characteristics. Except for the AKRSP, the other organizations are
government sponsored, but operate as independent private companies under section 42 of the Companies
Ordinance. All follow a holistic approach to development using social guidance, skill enhancement and capital
accumulation as guiding principles. It is estimated that support organizations annually lend close to a billion
rupees (US$20 million) in micro-credit, repayment rates for which are in the range of 90-95%5. An equal
amount is spent on community based programs. Interventions include formation of formal groups, construction
of physical infrastructure, micro-credit lending, and agricultural extension. Formnal groups with elected officials,
referred to as self-help groups (SHGs), are the basic building blocks of the RSPs' participatory rural
development model. It is through these groups that the RSPs focus on social organization, creating awareness,
capacity building, human resource development and credit discipline. The SHGs, established with support and
training from the RSPs, may be Community Organizations (COs), Village Organizations (VOs) and/or Women
Organizations (WOs). Invariably these groups are gender specific. There are, however, a few examples of
combined male/female groups.
All RSPs use productive physical infrastructure, in various ways, as an incentive for communities to organize.
High priority community projects are identified by the general membership of the group rather than by the
elected office-bearer or the RSP staff. Responsibility for maintenance, also, falls upon the groups. AKRSP and
SRSC use physical infrastructure schemes as a basis for establishing SHGs. BRSP, on the other hand, uses
infrastructure schemes to consolidate existing community groups. NRSP has minimized the use of infrastructure
schemes primarily due to resource constraints. (An overview of prominent RSPs is included in Documents in
Project File, Annex 8). The RSPs have formed approximately 13,845 SHGs (these groups are in addition to the
5 These rates may not be very credible as most NGOs do not have a systematic tracking mechanism nor is there a standard
methodology on loan classification. Several NGOs consider 'good faith' to be enough. Thus, if a defaulter makes even a
partial payment, it is considered satisfactory and the remaining amount is added to the outstanding balance - akin to a
balloon payment at the end of the loan.



Page 12
10,000 registered organizations mentioned previously), spread over 68 districts in the country. As there is hardly
any overlap in their areas of operation, in terms of geographical coverage, 58% of the districts in Pakistan and
Azad Kashmir are covered by these five RSPs alone.
With very few exceptions, most NGOs in Pakistan are multi-purpose, providing both micro-credit and non-
financial services. Micro-finance programs target low-income groups in urban and rural communities where the
need for credit and other support services is the greatest. Selection is based on 'word of mouth' and knowledge
of the community. While RSPs target rural populations and depend upon SHGs/ CBOs for the selection of
clients, monitoring as well as recovery of loans, Non-RSPs focus more on urban populations and give credit
mostly to existing businesses rather than to new ventures. To instill financial discipline in the beneficiaries, both
RSPs and Non-RSPs encourage savings with banks.
RSPs require all borrowers to be part of a group. The group is mandated to make borrowers sign a legal
document for cautionary value. In case of default, the RSPs impose sanctions against further lending and non-
lending activities in the community. In case of Non-RSPs, social pressure and fear of ostracism by the
guarantors is a strong disincentive to default. Interest rates are largely influenced by the formal sector, and vary
significantly (from 6% to 24%). Few differentiate rates across loan and borrower types. Maturity for most loans
is between 1 to 2 years. Incentives for timely repayment of loans include higher ceilings for subsequent loans
and continued expanding links with other NGO services, especially technical assistance, marketing and
networking. A majority of NGOs depend upon donor funds to cover operating and overhead costs. RSPs also
receive substantial support from the government. However, this is often volatile and subject to political
pressures. Based on the Rhyne and Otero scale of sustainability, most NGOs in Pakistan are still at various
stages within the first level of development6. The following box provides profiles of two typical borrowers,
fronm two different NGOs, Kashf and DAMEN.
Profile of Two Borrowers
Sadeeqan has no land or any large livestock. Her husband works as a gardener in a house near
the village, earning Rs. 1,500 per month. His salary is the only source of income for the family
comprising of 7 members. Before taking the loan from Kashf, her family was already in debt to a
village money lender. The loan totaling Rs.2,000 had to be paid back in lump sum. However, they
had also been paying a monthly interest of Rs. 200 for almost a year. Sadeeqan 's aunt who is the
leader of her group advised Sadeeqan to approach the Kashf staff. Initially Sadeeqan wanted a
loan to pay back her existing debt. However, after hearing her story, Kashf advised her to initiate
a quick turnover business so that she could pay back her previous loan from her business
earnings. Sadeeqan reconsidered the proposal with her husband andjoined the group.
From her loan, Sadeeqan bought 13 maunds of paddy for Rs. 4,000. Once she had husked the
paddy, she sold the rice for Rs. 6,000. She ensured that the rice was sold on cash rather than
credit and hence was able to reap the profit immediately. She used Rs. 2,000 to clear her debt and
6 The scale defined 4 levels of financial self-sustainability. Level 1 is associated with highly subsidized programs where
grants or soft loans cover operating expenses. At Level 2, programs raise funds at near market rates, and interest income
covers operational expenses and the cost of funds. At Level 3, most subsidy is eliminated and at Level 4, fee and interest
income cover the real cost of funds, loan loss reserves, operations and inflation.
7Kashf Foundation. Annual Report 1996.
8 DAMEN. Evaluation Report, Revolving Loan Fund Program. October 1996 - September 1998.
9 This cap is currently indexed to the price of a milch buffalo.
10 l5 households x 7.8 average size of household x Rs.5,000



Page 13
invested the rest to set up a carpet weaving loom in her house. While Sadeeqan ran the paddy
husking business in conjunction with her husband, she manages the carpet weaving business on
her own.
Sadeeqan's case highlights a situation where a woman has been able to change her own and her
family's life by being enterprising and innovative. Her family was a prime example of exploitation
by local money lenders. They had taken a small loan of Rs.2,000 but ended up paying around
Rs. 4,000, which accumulates to an interest rate of 120% per annum. Given an opportunity by
Kashf; Sadeeqan has been able to apply her existing skills to ensure a steady flow of income for
her family. Her efforts are greatly appreciated by her husband. She is now thinking of taking
another loan from Kashf to set up a bigger carpet weaving loom. Sadeeqan enjoys meeting her
group members and the rest of the women at the cluster meetings as it gives her an opportunity to
chat and share her ideas. 7
Bushra Bibi, a resident of Chung, was abandoned by her husband after 15 years of marriage,
leaving behind 5 young children to support. In this difficult time, her father-in-law stood by her
and both of them took charge of her husband's business of selling milk. To supplement her
income, Bushra Bibi also started earningfrom her needlework skills and rice business from which
she earned a monthly income of Rs.3,000. She started some savings also. She took her Ist loan of
Rs.5,000from DAMEN in March 1997. With her savings and loan money she bought another cow
to expand her business. She earned a net profit of Rs.8,500 within 8 months. Now she has taken a
2nd loan of Rs.  0, 000forfurther expansion of her business.8
It is borrowers such as Sadeeqan and Busha Bibi, that the PPAF would be supporting through its POs.
4.4 Eligibility Criteria and Terms of Partnership
Eligibility Criteriafor Partner Organizations:
POs are identified and selected through a transparent pre-selection criteria. They are expected to share the same
values as the PPAF, and have the capacity to implement community projects. The selection of POs is expected
to be an ongoing process, whereby new ones may be added and others excluded based on their performance.
Proactively soliciting new POs would ensure that POs that develop their capacities to handlePPAF's work can
also be included to expand PPAF's outreach over time. POs which satisfy, and continue to satisfy, the eligibility
criteria as specified in the Operations Manual would be eligible for funding. These criteria include the following:
* POs would be registered under the laws of Pakistan;
* POs would have a proven track record of at least two years in micro-credit/micro-enterprise financing and at
least three years in small-scale community physical infrastructure development financing;
* POs would be involved in participatory development at the grass-roots level, have the capacity to expand
their outreach and have a well-developed strategy and work plan for the future;
* POs would have a proper and transparent accounting system;
* POs would have micro-credit/micro-enterprise, small-scale community physical infrastructure development
and/or capacity building programs for women;
* POs would be willing and able to submit regular monitoring reports to the PPAF and to submit to monitoring
and evaluation by the PPAF or by any outside agency appointed by the PPAF for this purpose;
* POs would be willing and able to maintain all relevant records, documents and information in respect of
financing received from the PPAF, and to furnish these to the PPAF;
* POs would conduct audits in accordance with the laws under which they are registered, with audit scope
acceptable to the PPAF, and be willing and able to accept mandatory external audits by firms of chartered
accountants appointed by the PPAF;



Page 14
*  POs would be financially sustainable or on the path to sustainability, as judged in the light of a realistic
business plan and progress made by them towards achieving self-sufficiency; and
* POs would not be political, discriminatory, ethnic, sectarian or exclusionary in nature.
Terms of Partnership between PPAF and Partner Organizations that meet the Eligibility Criteria:
Each eligible PO would enter into a written 'PO Financing Agreement' with the PPAF, that would provide for:
*  The PO to declare its commitment to the objectives of the project and to undertake to conduct its operations
and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified and experienced
management and in accordance with its charter;
*  The PO to establish and maintain satisfactory procedures and operational policies for supervision and
monitoring of sub-projects so as to ensure the achievement of the objectives of the project;
*  The PO to ensure that the micro-credit loans and grants would be utilized to finance sub-projects in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions referred to in the eligibility criteria;
*  The PO to manage the environmental aspects of their operations in compliance withPPAF's Environmental
Management Framework (EMF);
*  The PO to duly perform all its obligations under the PO Financing Agreement, and not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the PO Financing
Agreement or any provision thereof;
*  The PO to promptly inform PPAF of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the performance by the PO of its obligations under the PO
Financing Agreement;
*  The PO to maintain procedures adequate to monitor and record the progress of sub-projects for which loans
and grants have been made through it, to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures of the PO in respect of the
project and said subprojects, to have such records and project accounts prepared quarterly and annually on
prescribed formats, and to have the annual project accounts audited in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied by an independent auditor acceptable to PPAF;
-  The PO to provide to PPAF all records, documents and information in respect of the loans or grants made
through it, the sub-projects for which such loans or grants have been made, and other activities of the PO, as
PPAF would reasonably request;
-  The PO to provide to PPAF quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) (refer toAnnexures 5 and 6) for
formats) and any other reports required at regular intervals specified by the PPAF, indicating, interalia, the
aggregate amount of financing provided under its micro-credit and community infrastructure development
program during such intervals, the sources of such financing, and the amount of such financing provided as
loans or grants;
*  The PO to provide to PPAF its medium term business plan within the framework of which loans and grants
would be made by it;
*  PPAF to have the right to suspend or terminate the right of the PO to the use of the proceeds of the Credit
for making loans or grants:
a  upon failure by the PO to perform and/or lack of absorptive capacity;
a  upon failure by the PO to submit quarterly PMRs within 45 days of the end of a quarter, or annual
audited financial statements within 5 months of the end of a fiscal year in formats acceptable to the
PPAF and IDA, as attached with the Financing Agreement, or to perform its obligations under the PO
Financing Agreement, or upon notice by IDA to the Government; or
*  upon notice by the PO that it intends to terminate the PO Financing Agreement or upon the actual
termination of the PO Financing Agreement, whichever occurs first.
Eligibility Criteria for Beneficiaries:
Beneficiaries seeking funding from POs for micro-credit loans and/or community infrastructure projects would
need to satisfy the following eligibility criteria as stated in the Operations Manual:



Page 15
* The beneficiaries should be considered poor under the definition of poverty adopted by the PO concerned
(by reference, inter alia, to caloric-intake, basic needs, income poverty, poverty of opportunity and the
human poverty index) or under a more specific standard for measuring poverty to be developed by the
PPAF;
* The beneficiaries should be groups or members of groups, organised and/or monitored by the PO concerned;
*  The beneficiaries should, preferably, operate a savings program;
*  The beneficiaries should:
•  conduct their affairs in an equitable manner and in accordance with sound and transparent administrative
and financial practices;
* hold regular meetings of their governing body;
* actively involve women in decision making; and
• maintain and provide, upon request, to the PO concerned all relevant records, documents and
information in respect of the sub-projects for which loans have been made to them; and
* The beneficiaries, if they have previously availed of any loans, should have serviced such loans efficiently
and promptly.
Eligibility Criteria for Micro-Credit Loans:
Loans for micro-credit would need to satisfy the eligibility criteria in the Operations Manual which includes the
following:
*  The activity for which the loan is sought would be in compliance with prevailing laws and regulations
relating to health, safety and environmental protection, including PPAF's EMF;
*  The activity for which the loan is sought would not be on PPAF's negative list specified in the Operations
Manual; and
*  Any single loan provided by a PO to an individual beneficiary under financing from the PPAF, would not
exceed Rs.30,0009.
Eligibility Criteria for Community Infrastructure:
Grants for community infrastructure would need to satisfy the eligibility criteria in the Operations Manual which
includes the following:
*  The community infrastructure sub-projects would be in compliance with prevailing laws and regulations
relating to health, safety and environmental protection, including the EMF of the PPAF;
*  The community infrastructure sub-projects would be:
* equitable (with more than 50% of the beneficiary community concerned benefiting in each case);
* cost effective (at least 15 households in a beneficiary community benefiting in each case, with cost per
capita not exceeding Rs.5,000, i.e. the total cost of the scheme in this instance should not exceed
Rs.585,00010);
* sustainable (being within the implementation and maintenance capacity of the beneficiaries concerned);
* technically viable; and
• productivity enhancing and income generating in their objectives.
* The community infrastructure sub-projects would give preference to rehabilitation, modernization and/or
extension of existing schemes rather than building new schemes where such an option exists.
Terms of Partnership between Partner Organizations and Beneficiaries that meet the Eligibility Criteria:
Eligible beneficiaries would enter into a written 'Subproject Financing Agreement' with the PO, that would
provide for:
*  Proposals for subprojects would be initiated or sponsored by beneficiaries, and would identify the type of
subproject and beneficiary, describe the works or goods to be financed and any goods or works to be
provided in kind by the beneficiary, identify the PO and its contribution to the financing of the sub-project.
*  POs would pre-appraise the proposals for sub-projects received by them for financing in accordance with
their own policies and procedures and PPAF's Operations Manual.



Page 16
*  POs would appraise sub-projects in accordance with their own policies and procedures and PPAF's
Operations Manual.
*  POs would estimate the value of subprojects, including the imputed value of the contribution, in kind, by
beneficiaries, the estimated value to be reasonable and acceptable to PPAF, and sufficient to cover the costs
of all goods and works necessary to achieve the benefits expected to result from the subprojects.
*  POs would approve subprojects in accordance with their own policies and procedures and those set forth in
PPAF's Operations Manual and would submit to PPAF for review and approval, prior to entering into the
relevant Subproject Financing Agreements:
* the first 10 micro-credit loan proposals;
* the first 5 community infrastructure project grant proposals;
* loan and grant proposals for subprojects not included in the eligible project list in the Operations
Manual.
*  POs would evaluate the eligibility of beneficiaries for participation in the project in accordance with criteria
satisfactory to PPAF.
*  Loans and grants would be made on such terms as would enable the PO concerned to obtain, by written
contract with the beneficiary concerned, rights adequate to protect the interests of the PPAF and the PO,
iincluding the right to:
require that the subproject for which the loan or grant is made be carried out in accordance with the
Operations Manual, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial,
environmental and managerial standards and that adequate records to reflect the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the subproject be maintained;
require that the goods, works and services financed from the proceeds of the Credit be used exclusively
in the carrying out of the subproject for which the loan or grant is made;
inspect by itself, or jointly with the PPAF, if PPAF would so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and
construction included in the subproject for which the loan or grant is made, the operations thereof and
any relevant records and documents;
obtain all such information as the PO or the PPAF would reasonably request, regarding the
administration, operation and financial condition of the subproject for which the loan or grant is made;
and
suspend or terminate the right of the beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Credit for the subproject for
which the loan or grant is made upon the failure by the beneficiary to perform any of its obligations
under the agreement.
* Crants for community infrastructure would, additionally, require that:
*  the beneficiary identify and approve the community infrastructure project for which the grant is made
through an open and democratic process;
*  the beneficiary sign the Subproject Financing Agreement on terms of partnership approved in its general
body meeting, with the responsibilities of the beneficiary and the PO clearly defined;
* the beneficiary contribute towards the capital cost of the community infrastructure project for which the
grant is made, such contribution varying according to the capacity to pay, but in any case, not falling
below 15% of such cost;
* the beneficiary collaborate with the PO in conducting a survey and costing of the community
infrastructure project for which the grant is made;
* the beneficiary receive from the PO, technical and other assistance during identification, planning and
implementation of the community infrastructure project for which the grant is made, as well as
operations and maintenance training on need basis;
* the beneficiary implement the community infrastructure project for which the grant is made within a
stipulated time and budget;
* the beneficiary open a separate bank account, to be operated by at least two signatories, and maintain a
record of all receipts and payments, all relating to the community infrastructure project for which the



Page 17
grant is made;
* the beneficiary implement the community infrastructure project for which the grant is made, using its
own human and material resources and not sub-contract construction work to contractors, except works
requiring skills not otherwise available to the beneficiary;
* the beneficiary submit its work to supervision and certification for quality and adherence to
specifications by the PO, the PO having the right to suspend payments under the grant in respect of sub-
standard work until such time as such work has been rectified; and
i the beneficiary be fully responsible for the operation and maintenance costs of the community
infrastructure project for which grant is made.
4.5 Flow of Funds
* After signing of the contract, PPAF would disburse all loans/grants directly through crossed cheque to the
relevant PO. All disbursements from the PPAF to the PO would be kept in separate designated PPAF
Project accounts.
* The designated PPAF Project accounts of POs will be operated under two authorized joint signatories.
* Disbursements will be regulated as follows:
*  All disbursements for micro-credit by a PO to a CBO will be made from the designated account
through crossed cheque. In case of individuals, disbursements would preferably be made through
crossed cheque from the designated account. If payments by cheque are not feasible, they would be
made in a transparent and verifiable manner.
*  All disbursements for community infrastructure loans and/or grants, by a PO to a CBO would be made
from the designated account through crossed cheque. Under no circumstances, will cheques for
community infrastructure loans and/or grants be made out to individuals.
*  All disbursements for capacity building grants by POs or CBOs to suppliers/vendors providing goods
and services will be made from designated account through crossed cheque.
* Repayments of loan principal as well as interest, from the ultimate beneficiaries to POs (whether cash or
cheque), and from POs to the PPAF, shall also be made through the designated PPAF Project account.
* Payment of interest by the ultimate beneficiaries to POs and by POs to the PPAF shall be classified and
reported separately from the principal amount.
4.6 Pricing of Funds
The pricing of funds would be:
Government to PPAF:
* Micro-credit Component - Government will on-lend IDA funds to the PPAF on IDA terms with foreign
exchange risk borne by the Government. Repayments, however, by PPAF to GOP would be over a period of
twenty-three years, including a grace period of eight years.
* Community Infrastructure & Capacity Building Components - Government will provide IDA funds for
these components as a grant to the PPAF.
PPAF to Partner Organizations:
* Micro-credit Component- PPAF will on-lend funds for micro-credit/micro-enterprise loans, to POs at 6%
and 8%, based on their average loan size -- 6% to POs with an average loan size of less than Rs. 10,000 and
8% to POs with an average loan size of Rs.10,000 or more. PPAF's BOD is also reviewing further
differentiating the interest rate to provide POs with an incentive to target the poorest of the poor.
* Community Infrastructure & Capacity Building Components - PPAF will provide these to POs as grants.
Partner Organizations ' Micro-Credit Loans to Ultimate Beneficiaries:
* POs will on-lend to the ultimate beneficiaries at rates that, in the long run, fully cover their costs of



Page 18
intermediation, including bad debts, and funding.
* PPAF would impose a minimum lending rate to ensure that lending to the ultimate beneficiaries is not below
commercial banks' prevailing lending rates to avoid market distortions and abuse.
Partner Organizations' Grants to Communities for Small-Scale Infrastructure
* POs will provide these as grants to communities on a cost-sharing basis, the cost-sharing being dependent
upon poverty levels and the type of infrastructure being proposed. For example, a scheme that contributes
immediately to the cash income of the community, like an irrigation channel, would require higher levels of
contribution from the communities as opposed to village roads where the benefits would be less tangible.
Based on existing practices, contributions are expected to range from 15% to 40% of the capital cost.
Currency of Loans:
* All loans - from GOP to PPAF, from PPAF to POs and from POs to the poor will be in local currency, with
GOP bearing the exchange risk, without any fee.
Rationale for Pricing of Funds:
* The spread between IDA terms and PPAF's re-lending to POs will allow PPAF to cover its operating costs
and build-up its equity to expand its lending operations. The pricing of funds allows subsidy to the PPAF
and POs. The rationale for providing public funds at concessional rates is that this would: (i) enable the
IEPAF, through its POs, to bring banking to the doorsteps of the poor, and also allow them to pursue their
agenda of social empowerment to poverty alleviation; (ii) provide the PPAF and its POs the ability to build
their equity and their long-term sustainability of their lending services; (iii) enable POs to pursue the costly
strategy of serving poor communities that require smaller loan sizes; and (iv) increase the consumption and
savings of the poor, since POs are basically cost-minimization pass-through organizations. Given the
incidence of poverty and gender inequality, a policy of leaving money in the hands of the poor, particularly
vvomen, as against generating re-flows back to the government through higher re-lending rates, is fully
justified.
Establishing the Interest Rate Policy for PPAF:
i 'I'he CEO, together with the Core Executives, is responsible for recommending the price of funds based on
market conditions and the vision, mission and objectives of the PPAF, and recommending changes therein to
the BOD.
* T'he BOD, is responsible for authorising revision in the price of funds provided to POs.
* T'he CEO is responsible for obtaining agreement on the pricing of funds from donors with whom such
understanding has been reached.
4.7 Management Information System, Monitoring & Evaluation (Formats are included in Annexures 5 and 6)
Management Information System (MIS):
The integrity and cost-effectiveness with which micro-credit operations are carried out are an essential
deterninant of the long run sustainability of these operations. By providing the medium through which these
operations are carried out and monitored, the management information system (MIS) becomes a key determinant
of the ultimate success of micro-credit operations. The systems architecture underlying the MIS and a
description of the manner in which the system will be implemented and maintained is part of the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) of the PPAF, included in the Documents in Project File (See Annex 8).
Moniloring & Evaluation (M&E):
M&E plans and project supervision. Given that the project is aimed at poverty alleviation, there is need for
PPAF to further refine the ways in which it will monitor whether or not this goal is actually being achieved. This
means giving careful thought to: (a) the working definition of 'poverty' that will be used by PPAF; (b) the



Page 19
indicators that will be used to determine whether or not this goal has been achieved; and (c) the processes
whereby the impact on poverty will be assessed. PO performance indicators aligned with poverty alleviation
objectives, as well as the standards of performance expected from them, have been included in the Operational
Policy Manual and will be used in the initial contracts between the PPAF and POs. These indicators and
standards will later be refined through a consultative process with POs, with IDA review.
*  Baseline analysis: Using national surveys, reports from POs and its own resources, the PPAF will compile
and analyse baseline information on the status of its target groups in order to validate the proposals it
receives, quantify the outreach of its POs and estimate the impact of the assistance it provides for micro-
credit/micro-enterprise, community infrastructure and capacity building.
*  Input monitoring: Based on monthly and quarterly reports prepared by POs and itself, the PPAF will track
the deployment of inputs, especially financial and human resources, stipulated in the Implementation Plan
agreed between the PPAF and the PO. Through field visits of its Project Teams, the PPAF will verify the
deployment of inputs on a sample basis and agree any course corrections that may be required during
implementation.
*  Output monitoring: The PO will report, on a quarterly basis, the delivery of outputs stipulated in the agreed
Implementation Plan. Through field visits of its Project Teams, the PPAF will verify the delivery of outputs
on a sample basis and agree any course corrections that may be required during implementation.
*  Process monitoring: Through field visits of its Project Teams, the PPAF will verify that the operational
policies and procedures agreed for implementation are being followed by the PO. Together with the PO, the
Project Team will agree improvements in operational policies and procedures that could improve delivery
and enhance equity and sustainability, broadly defined, during implementation.
* Impact evaluation and project completion reporting: In conjunction with the baseline information available
to it, the PPAF will conduct or commission studies and surveys to quantify the adoption of Fund-supported
interventions by its target groups, and the impact on the incomes, assets and other indicators of well-being of
the target groups. PPAF will prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) at the end of each funding cycle
with a PO, based on impact evaluation and other reports. The contents of these PO specific PCRs will
include the following:
*  Project Background
* Project Relevance
• Efficiency
* Effectiveness
* Impact of the Project
* Sustainability
• Lessons Learned
• Conclusions and Recommendations
*  PPAF will put in place a rigorous periodic review for large POs. This review will focus upon the
sustainability and integrity of the POs' micro-credit programs, the sustainability of the community
infrastructure subprojects that they support, and their effectiveness at reaching the poor. In Year 1 this
review would be contracted out to an independent third party team consisting of a Organizational Expert, a
Micro-Finance Specialist with extensive expertise in conducting such appraisals, and a Social Development
Specialist.
4.8 Audit
PPAF will be monitoring its POs very closely. There will be three financial audits that each PO will have to
undergo.
Year-end statutory audit by POs' own auditors:
The year-end statutory audit will be carried out in accordance with the requirement of the laws under which a



Page 20
PO is registered. Auditors will be required to give their opinion on the utilization of PPAF funds by the PO and
the quality of its credit portfolio, apart from fulfilling their statutory obligations.
Audit of POs by the internal audit cell of PPAF:
The internal audit cell of the PPAF will audit project activities of every PO on a continuous basis. The cell will
submit its audit report, with recommendations on remedial measures, to the CEO of the PPAF within 10 days of
completing the audit. Although, at present, one person has been appointed as the Internal Auditor within PPAF,
it has been agreed that, initially (till PPAF develops this capacity in-house), this function would be out-sourced
to a reputable firm of chartered accountants. Members of the cell would act as roving auditors, spending most of
their time in the field with the POs.
POs' audit by PPAF's auditor:
The statutory auditor of the PPAF will also conduct an audit of at least 30% ofPPAF's POs whilst carrying out
the audit of the PPAF. The firm would selectively audit the POs to ensure contractual compliance that funds
have been properly utilised and proper books of accounts have been maintained by them. Detailed and
acceptable TORs for PPAF's Internal Audit Department and for the Statutory Auditor are attached in the
Documents in Project File.
These audits will ensure that POs maintain a high degree of financial accountability and transparency. The year-
end audits will provide ex-post examination of the financial situation of each PO and itsutilization of the funds
provided by the PPAF, whereas the roving auditors will be proactive, providing ex-ante reviews and suggesting
remedial measures to improve financial controls within the POs, allowing the PPAF to take action as soon as any
irregularities are detected. With respect to the annual audit of the POs' annual financial statements, PPAF
funded micro-credit and grants are to be shown separately in a Project Receipts and Payments Account (See
Annex 5), which would be audited by the external auditor.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Options considered included the following:
U Using commercial banks (private or public) for the provision of micro-credit was rejected as experience
worldwide, with a few exceptions, and in Pakistan has not been positive. Banks have not been able to reach
the poor, especially women. Public sector financial institutions in Pakistan have carried out several schemes
directed to help the poor, but as these schemes have concessionary rates, not only have they to be rationed
but have also been hijacked by influential groups. Loan recoveries too, have been poor, making the loans
much more concessionary and requiring large infusions of public resources periodically. This subsidized
public credit is an ineffective vehicle for helping the poor. Private sector commercial banks, on the other
hand, have shown little interest in capturing this niche as it is not within their corporate culture.
* Government line departments were considered for the provision of infrastructure, but this option was
abandoned in light of past experiences with line departments, their poor track record of involving
communities in projects, cumbersome procedures, and endemic financial leakage's.
* Utilizing local councils was also examined, but taking into account the uncertainty surrounding them
(presently only Punjab has elected local bodies1 1) and their track record, they were not further considered.
Moreover, the Local Council tier has, to date, not been given constitutional sanction. Elections to Local
Councils are held intermittently and at the whim of the Provincial Governments. Also, in view of the fact
that the average size of a union council ranges from 10 - 20 villages, this level of government is too large to
"Recently, Balochistan also held Local Council elections.



Page 21
permit community participation at the individual village level in the implementation of schemes. A lower
level of organization is required in the context of community schemes.
* Using an existing apex funding organization, namely the Trust for Voluntary Organizations (TVO), was also
rejected in view of its weak governance structure, politicization and track record.
* The option of financing a few selected NGOs/RSPs directly was rejected because it would be detrimental to
the long term development of the sector.
* There was, within the PPAF, the option of either using NGOs as partners, or establishing a large network of
PPAF offices/branches throughout the country to reach-out to the poor. The latter option was rejected as this
would require substantial financial outlays to support a large network; it would also have meant disregarding
the considerable presence and rich experience of NGOs and CBOs in the country. Admittedly, a majority of
them are weak, however, with institutional strengthening measures, it would be more cost-effective and
efficient to use existing institutions with good track records.
It is envisaged that POs would handle all proposals from communities and be responsible for either approving or
rejecting them. They would also be involved in supervising and monitoring implementation. It is recognized that
this arrangement may lead to a possible conflict of interest. However, it would be unrealistic to expect PPAF to
appraise every community proposal. Therefore, PPAF would concentrate its efforts on selection of partners with
good track record of working with communities and overseeing their work, through regular monitoring, audits
and third party impact evaluations. Feedback from communities, including the provincial level advisory
committees (proposed under PPAF's Articles), would also be essential in determining the quality of POs' work.
There are areas, where there are no POs. These areas would initially be left un-served until such time, that
potential new POs have developed, or existing POs have extended their capacities and are able to expandPPAF's
outreach to these areas.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
Sector Issue                     Project               Latest Supervision Ratings
_________________________  ____________(Bank-Financed Projects Only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Bank-Financed
*  NWFP Community                  S               S
Infrastructure Project
*  Balochistan Community           S               S
Irrigation Project
*  Northern Pakistan Resource      S               S
Management Project
*  Micro-enterprise Project        S               S
Other Development Agencies
IFAD                             *  Neelum Jhelum Valleys
Community Support Project
UNDP/CIDA/NORAD/NOVIB/TVO   Funding for NGOs including:
AKRSP, SRSC, SUNGI, and
NRSP
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 22
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
It is now becoming increasingly evident that micro-credit alone is insufficient to address poverty. Micro-credit
programs have limits and cannot be substitutes for infrastructure projects to improve access and reduce poverty in
poor countries. Therefore, although credit has played a major role in empowering poor people, especially poor
women, it should be conceived as one intervention in an overall strategy for poverty reduction. Other elements in
this strategy include, access to land and infrastructure and enhancement of the capacities and business skills of the
poor. In view of this the PPAF has been designed to include all three components, and is a blend of a social and
micro-credit fund.
Primary lessons learned from successful social funds and micro-credit organizations include:
A utonomy andfreedom from political pressures:
This should ensure:
* an autonomous status, enabling organizations to respond rapidly and successfully to community demands,
while at the same time, having transparent financial reporting and being financially accountable for funds
entrusted to them; and
* freedom from political and bureaucratic pressures.
Organizational structure:
The organizational structure should incorporate:
*  a streamlined organizational structure;
* organizational culture of professional development institution rather than a government agency or a charitable
association;
*  financial, administrative and operational autonomy;
*  involvement of NGOs and CBOs as intermediaries;
*  staffing of various operational divisions by respective sector specialists, who are professionally competent
and well-motivated, operating in a system based on merit; and
*  senior management appointments and approval of policy guidelines prior to start-up.
Operational and procedural:
Operations and procedures should cover the following aspects:
*  decentralized processes of decision-making, project implementation and supervision;
*  simple procedures and clear functional lines for efficient management;
* flexible financing mechanisms subject to a rigorous appraisal process;
* transparent selection procedures and criteria for sub-projects;
* well-designed management information system;
* effective monitoring and evaluation;
* transparent and accountable use of funds with internal and external audits ensuring compliance; and
*  capacity building of community organizations and NGOs.
Program interventions:
Program interventions should incorporate:
*  demand driven mechanisms for project generation, with effective grassroots participation;
*  mechanisms for cost recovery and operations and maintenance as part of the approval criteria for sub-
projects; and
*  a sense of ownership of sub-projects by communities, not only through cost-sharing but also by promoting a
clear understanding of the rights and responsibilities of the users and providers.



Page 23
Micro-credit operations:
Micro-credit operations should ensure the following:
*  complete separation of credit and non-credit operations to avoid overlap of loan and grant based operations;
*  loans priced to fully cover costs;
*  strengthening of POs through technical assistance for institutional development; and
*  credit combined with skills development, marketing assistance etc. for poor, for greater impact.
In terms of incorporating the above lessons, several have already been taken into account (details below) and
included in the design of the project. Others will be addressed during project implementation.
Autonomy and freedom from political pressure:
* The PPAF has been established as a non-government, legally autonomous organization to protect it from
political influence and patronage. The Companies Ordinance under which the Fund has been incorporated,
ensures its autonomy and clearly identifies the role of the Board and the CEO.
*  One of the 'cardinal principles' of PPAF, as enshrined in its Articles and Memorandum of Association, states
that: "the Board of Directors, shall ensure that the resources of the company shall not be used for political
patronage or for any other political purposes".
*  The selection of the members of the Board through the General Body will provide a safeguard against
political and government pressures. Also, once the budget and the general policies and guidelines are
approved and endorsed by the BOD, the day-to-day management of PPAF will be the sole responsibility of
the CEO and not the Board.
Organizational structure:
-  The General Body and the Board are at the top of the hierarchy, followed by the CEO and the Management.
The Management includes five separate divisions for: 1. Credit and Enterprise Development; 2. Community
Infrastructure; 3. Human Resource Development; 4. Monitoring, Evaluation and Research; and 5. Finance
and Accounts.
*  Operations will be implemented through decentralized field offices, with clear allocation of roles and
responsibilities between the central and field offices in each province.
-  The Board of the PPAF has appointed a CEO and senior management through transparent and merit-based
procedures.
Operational and procedural/program interventions!micro-credit operations:
The Operational Manual of the PPAF incorporates most of the lessons identified above in terms of operations,
procedures, program interventions and micro-credit operations. The inclusion of NGOs as POs, and the
transparency of the selection and approval criteria of POs and subprojects, is reflected in the Operational Manual,
as is monitoring and evaluation. Continuous capacity building of the PPAF and its POs is also a key operational
feature.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The establishment of the PPAF under the Companies Ordinance as a non-profit company limited by guarantee,
and subsequent measures to operationalize it e.g. the appointment of a Board with 75% of its members from civil
society, senior officials on the Board representing the Government, finalization of the Operations Manual,
provision of Rs.20 million ($0.4 million) as initial start-up capital and approval for release of Rs. 100 million ($2.0
million) as the first tranche towards PPAF's endowment, are indicators of borrower commitment and ownership.



Page 24
The PPAF is also mentioned in key policy pronouncements and speeches by the Prime Minister and the Federal
Finance Minister. The government sees PPAF as a 'center of activity for betterment of the poor' to 'complement
SAP activities'12
5. iValue added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's support will provide added value in several key areas:
*  Applications of 'Best Practices' for the PPAF, from the Bank Group's global experience in social funds and
micro-credit.
*  Providing non-financial assistance: The Bank is in a unique position by virtue of its world-wide operations
and its staff's skill mix to provide other non-financial assistance to the PPAF, including technical assistance
for institutional development, ability to organize twinning arrangements and exposure tours etc. The Bank
arranged the visit of the Managing Director and Deputy General Manager, Micro-finance of the PKSF to
Pakistan to assist PPAF Management with operational issues, in light of their own experiences13. PPAF staff
will also shortly be sent to PKSF, and Grameen Bank on a study tour organized by the Bank.
*  Facilitating dialogue: The Bank's catalytic role in facilitating effective dialogue between communities,
NGOs and the public sector can be utilized to create a working relationship between all the partners for
effective implementation of the program.
There is, however, another dimension of value added -- that of the project to the Bank's operations in Pakistan. If
the concept of working directly with communities through a organization outside the Government succeeds, it
will have major implications of how the Bank does business in future as the project would provide a
comprehensive community participation strategy, which could supplant the present fragmented project-wise
beneficiary involvement approach.
E: Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic:
As a result of the project, POs will be in a position to: i) increase their lending, thereby increasing access to the
poor; ii) develop and invest more in human capital, thereby increasing the capacities of the poor; and iii) build
more productive infrastructure with communities, thereby increasing the joint capital of the poor. It is difficult to
estimate how many people will be covered by the project, given that some of the funds will be used for vertical as
well as horizontal outreach. Rough estimates, however, based on past pattern of growth suggests that the project
would benefit approximately 1.2 million people.
In terms of micro-credit, the average loan size of current borrowers of PPAF's POs is about Rs. 10,000. The
average loan size for RSPs varies, from Rs.4,000 for BRSP to Rs.17,000 for NRSP. By the end of the project, the
average loan size is expected to be between Rs.15,000 - Rs.20,000. This is in keeping with loan sizes that a
borrower needs to have for a few years to cross the poverty line. Thus, as long as project beneficiaries continue to
receive loans of increasing amounts (with their debt capacities increasing through higher incomes, training and
human development), and this is complemented with productive community infrastructure schemes to enhance
their earning potential, the majority of them should be able to cross the poverty line in about 4-5 years.
12 The SAP is the Goverunent's flagship program, expanding investments in primary education, primary health care, water
supply & sanitation, and population welfare.
" The PKSP, a governmental apex financing intermediary for NGOs in Bangladesh is one of the most successful operations
of its kind in the region.



Page 25
It is difficult to calculate an ERR for the overall project, given the complexity of quantifying the benefits of some
of its activities, such as capacity building and training. For the other components, the rate of return will depend on
the final distribution among different types of subprojects, as PPAF will be demand driven. However, based on
experiences of similar Bank funded social funds, the rate of return for activities with quantifiable benefits is on
average 20%. As 80% of project components are quantifiable, a similar rate of return can also be expected.
Besides ERR, the PPAF will also use measures of cost effectiveness to review subprojects.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
Financial issues that were especially reviewed included: (i) size of the project; (ii) counterpart funding; (iii)
recurrent cost implications of subprojects; (iv) financial systems and controls, including appropriate staffing
levels; and (v) audit arrangements. Formats for financial reporting, monitoring project progress and procurement
in accordance with OP 10.02 are given in Annexures 5 and 6. In addition, both Annexures 5 and 6 and the PIP
include agreed action plans for implementing an acceptable monitoring system, upgrading the financial
management system and upgrading the procurement and contract management system.
Size of the project:
The project size has been established based on a careful assessment of absorptive capacity and demand for
funding. 20 NGOs/RSPs, likely to be considered as candidates for PPAF funding, were selected to assess the
absorptive capacity and to estimate future demands on the PPAF for micro-credit and infrastructure projects. A
conscious effort was made to include both large and small organizations as well as NGOs/RSPs from different
regions in the sample. 85% of the organizations included in the sample were multi-dimensional, providing both
credit and non-credit services. Three possible scenarios were developed, namely, best-case, conservative and
worst case. Micro-credit lending and expenditure on community infrastructure is assumed to increase at the
average growth rate for the best-case scenario and the lowest, positive growth rate for the conservative scenario.
For the worst-case scenario, micro-credit lending and expenditures on infrastructure is assumed to remain
constant. In all three cases, current resources are assumed to be equal to current expenditure (i.e. for 1998) and
that sources of funding will remain constant for the coming five years. According to projections for the
conservative scenario, there exists, for year one, a demand-supply gap of US$24 million (see Documents in
Project File, Annex 8for details).
In September 1998, the PPAF ran an advertisement in all leading Pakistani newspapers soliciting applications
from NGOs, RSPs and private sector institutions interested in obtaining funding through the PPAF. 231
applications were received within the three week deadline. A preliminary shortlist, consisting of 42 applicants,
was prepared on the basis of information submitted as per eligibility criteria. Of these 14 NGOs/ RSPs were
selected in the first phase for appraisal. The selection was made with a view to ensure regional equity, gender
balance and a judicious mix of large, medium and small organizations. According to information submitted by
these organizations, the total demand for funds for micro-credit, community infrastructure and capacity building,
for the next three years, is approximately US$123 million (See Documents in Project File).
The following table shows the demand received by the PPAF and the first batch of applicants approved, in
principle, by the PPAF Board:



Page 26
Partner Organization                          Demand (Year 1)              Approved in Principle
(Rs. millions)
Aga Khan Rural Support Program (AKRSP)             450.0                           300.0
National Rural Support Program (NRSP)             2,030.0                          530.0
Kashf Foundation                                     3.7                             2.0
Taraqee Trust                                        3.3                             1.6
Strengthening Participatory Organization (SPO)      37.0                             5.0
Family Planning Association of Pakistan (FPAP)      36.6                              0.7
Total (Rs. in millions)                        Rs.2,560.6                        Rs.839.3
Total (US$ in millions)                          US$51.2                         US$16.8
An exercise was also carried out by the Appraisal Mission in order to assess the proposed size of the PPAF credit.
Conclusion of this exercise suggests a project size of US$107 million over a five-year period. The breakdown of
this amount between the components is US$45 million for micro-credit, US$35 million for community
infiastructure grants (this includes US$7 million of community contribution), US$10 million for capacity building
of the POs, US$7 million for capacity building, technical assistance and training for the PPAF and US$10 million
as GOP's equity for the PPAF. Since PPAF is a new institution, annual disbursements were projected using
historical growth rates of POs. For the first year, 6 NGOs/RSPs short-listed by the PPAF were considered. The
total disbursement for micro credit, community infrastructure and related capacity building activities for the first
year is estimated to be US$9 million. This number reflects a relatively conservative growth rate compared to the
projections of the POs submitted to PPAF i.e. US$16.8 million.
The project size is conservative in relation to needs, (but not in relation to micro-credit disbursed annually by the
POs) given the large number of poor. At the same time, there is a risk that project size could outstretch absorptive
capacity and project implementation becomes disbursement driven. The PPAF management fully shares the
appraisal team's recommendations that annual micro-credit lending and grant funding should not be target driven,
but based on POs' absorptive capacity for sound and efficient intermediation and supporting cost effective and
demand driven community infrastructure projects. This aspect would be carefully monitored during supervision
and credit size adjusted, if needed, during mid-term review.
Counterpartfiunds:
GOP has already provided Rs.20 million (US$0.4 million) to initiate the PPAF. The Government has, moreover,
agreed to a Rs.500 (US$10.0 million) endowment fund for the PPAF. The firsttranche of Rs.100 million (US$2.0
million) to finance core costs has been approved for release. The remaining balance of Rs.400 million (US$8.0
million) will be disbursed over the next two years in equal installments of Rs.200 million (US$4.0 million) per
annum.
Recurrent costs of subprojects:
Beneficiary communities would be responsible for all recurrent costs, including operations and maintenance of
infrastructure subprojects.
Finamcial systems and controls, including appropriate staffing levels:
Company Law in Pakistan requires listed companies to follow International Accounting Standards (IAS).
Unlisted companies follow the Fifth Schedule of the Companies Ordinance which provides bases for valuation of
assets and liabilities and also the form of financial statements to be prepared annually. As a non-listed company,
PPAF would also follow the Fifth Schedule but its annual financial statements will be prepared in accordance
with IAS.
Financial management systems of the PPAF and its largest PO, NRSP were reviewed. Detailed appraisals of these
organizations are included in Annex 5. In both organizations accounts are being maintained on a double entry



Page 27
system and are largely satisfactory. Audit of accounts are carried out by commercial auditors that are appointed
by shareholders of each Company. PPAF follows a double entry accounting system according to generally
accepted accounting principles and maintains the following books of accounts: i) Cash Book; ii) Bank Book; iii)
General Ledger; iv) Journal to record accruals and adjustmnents; v) Payroll; and vi) Register of Fixed Assets.
Controls include joint signatures for bank payments, reconciliation of the Bank balance with the Bank Book on a
monthly basis and preparation of the bank reconciliation statement. Expenditure recorded is controlled through
major and minor objects classifications. Monthly Trial Balance, Income and Expenditure Statement and Balance
Sheet are prepared from the above records. Additional systems that will have to be added to existing procedures,
include, maintaining subsidiary ledgers for POs; developing a chart of accounts; and strengthening budgetary
controls. Also activities of the five units of the PPAF will be divided into cost centers and in due course of time,
accounts will be computerized to provide timely reports for management. A financial consultancy firm will be
hired to introduce this system. However, financial systems and controls within the PPAF and its POs will need to
be continuously strengthened to ensure that they are relevant, effective and cater to the needs of the PPAF.
Presently the Finance Department is headed by a very experienced and senior qualified Accountant, supported by
a FCMA (Cost and Management Accountant) and a Cost and Management Finalist.
Quarterly PMRs have been agreed to with the client (See Annexures S and 6). Though these reports conform to
LACI PMRs, LACI disbursement procedures using such formats is considered premature in view of certain
inadequacies in the financial management system namely, i) the functions of custody, detail accounting and
general accounting is being handled by one person -- duties are not segregated adequately, ii) the Finance &
Accounting Manual has still not been finalized and iii) the present chart of accounts will not be able to cope with
the reporting requirements of the PPAF. However, a one year target date for conversion to PMR based
disbursement will be considered following completion of a dated action plan to rectify deficiencies and a further
financial management assessment.
Audit arrangements:
PPAF
The audit of PPAF is conducted by a national firm of chartered accountants which is a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Pakistan (ICAP)14. In December, 1998, the firm submitted its audit report for PPAF
for the year ended 30th June 1998. The report is unqualified.
Partner Organizations
The project has three levels of audit for POs. These include the following: i) year-end statutory audits of the POs,
carried out in accordance with the laws under which POs are registered. Auditors conducting the statutory audit
will be asked to provide their opinion on the utilization of PPAF funds by the POs and the quality of the credit
portfolio, along with fulfilling their statutory provision; ii) audit by the internal audit cell of the PPAF. These
roving auditors would audit project activities of every PO on a continuous basis (until this capacity is fully
developed in-house, this function will be out-sourced to firms of chartered accountants). Internal Auditors will
also certify Quarterly PMRs to be submitted by POs; and iii) audit by the statutory auditor of the PPAF whilst
carrying out the audit of the PPAF. The auditors would selectively audit at least 30% of the POs to ensure
contractual compliance by them.
Furthermore, the Terms of Partnership between POs and the PPAF would expressly state that the POs maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources
and expenditure of the POs in respect of the Project, and to have such records and accounts audited in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the PPAF. The
PPAF would retain the right to suspend or terminate the right of any PO, upon failure to perform its obligations.
1 The ICAP follows International Auditing Standards and it is mandatory for its members to abide by them.



Page 28
3. Technical:
The technology and design for community infrastructure projects would be simple and suited for local conditions,
as all schemes will be maintained by communities themselves. Though it is envisaged that standard designs would
be used, these would require continuous improvement and innovation to suit local conditions.
4. i'nstitutional:
Institutional issues that were especially reviewed included: (i)PPAF's autonomy; (ii) the managerial capacity of
PPAF and its POs to deliver the program; and (iii) arrangements for channeling funds and monitoring of Project
activities.
The autonomous status of the PPAF is best assured by its governance structure as detailed in C-4.2. Transparent
operational procedures, including flow of funds and monitoring, etc. have been articulated inPPAF's Operations
Manual. Details have been included under C-4.4 to C-4.7. The Operational Manual will have to be strictly
adhered to by the organization. As regards the managerial capacity of the PPAF and its POs, provisions have been
madle under the capacity building component (See Annex 3for details).
5. Social:
The project is a high social content project and is expected to have a positive social impact. The project does not
carry a high social risk.
WoIen
-  In view of the poor track record of most organizations in the country in mainstreaming women, specific
provisions have been built in the project to ensure that the status of women is raised from ignored or passive
beneficiaries to active, informed and energetic partners. This process has already been internalized within the
PPAF as well as within the NGOs being considered as its POs. Measures in this regard include, representation
,of women on their Board, governing bodies and professional staff, and training in gender sensitization etc.
Amongst potential POs, Behbud, The Family Planning Association of Pakistan (FPAP), Development Action
for Mobilization and Emancipation (DAMEN) and Kashf focus exclusively on women. Shortlisted NGOs
have already instituted these measures within their organizations, some for several years, making them the
most enlightened and gender sensitive organizations in the country. For instance, NRSP, the largest RSP in
Pakistan in terms of coverage, aims at introducing and raising awareness of the gender perspective through all
sectoral interventions and in all phases of development - from need identification to implementation. To date,
NRSP has organized approximately 42,000 women into 1,600 women's organizations and has disbursed
almost Rs.143 million (US$3 million) to women under its micro-credit program (15% of the total credit
disbursed). The RSP's plans for the future include the continuation of gender sensitization of staff and the
community through training, seminars and workshops; ensuring that women are eligible for special
considerations in all sectors, especially credit; actively supporting the establishment of schools for girls; and
providing information on matters pertaining to the domain of men as means to women's empowerment.
*  To ensure that women are not marginalized, operational documents and processes have been sensitively
designed to access women. The system also ensures that those sub-projects/loans that respond to the priorities
of women take precedence over others. The collection and analysis of gender disaggregated data and
monitoring indicators, that examine the impact of the project on women, have also been made mandatory.
*  Apart from categorically defining women as the target population for the Fund, the following extracts from
]'PAF's Operational Manual specifically highlight provisions that have been incorporated within the project
for the inclusion of, and the empowerment of women:
In relation to the capacity of its POs, the Fund's mission is 'to double the outreach of POs in reaching the
poor, women and under-served districts, . . .'
'Capacity building of POs and PPAF should include improving management and financial systems and
training of staff in development skills, especially gender related.' In fact, one of the key performance



Page 29
indicators for capacity building is 'an increased number of PPAF POs and their coverage of the poor,
women and under-served districts'.
•  The General Eligibility Criteria for POs specifically states, 'The organization must have micro-
credit/micro-enterprise, small-scale community physical infrastructure and/or capacity building programs
for women'. Additionally, to be eligible for funding for community infrastructure projects, potential POs
must make the sub-project selection 'through an open and democratic process with full participation of
women'.
*  The Monitoring Unit of PPAF shall, as a matter of priority, 'analyze the information that is available for
various parts of Pakistan in order to help PPAF management identify the location of the urban and rural
poor and ... disadvantaged rural and urban communities, especially women'.
•  Any activity by a PO with 'negative social impacts on women, children, indigenous people, etc.' will be
considered as a negative externality.
•  The PPAF will coordinate with organizations that specifically focus on women and credit such as the
Women in Credit Information and Resource Center (WCIRC), the NGO Resource Center, and the Micro-
finance Group.
Child Labor
* The PPAF is planning to pro-actively pursue with their POs a policy whereby child labor issues are
addressed, ensuring that projects and individual sub-projects do not encourage this practice. Information on
child labor is part of the proposal forms that POs complete. This is verified and discussed as part of PO
appraisal by the PPAF.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category   []A   [1] B  [I] C
Subprojects and schemes will be small in scale and maintenance by communities will guarantee effective use of
natural resources, thereby, ensuring an environmentally benign project. The Operations Manual specifically
requires the PPAF to appraise the Environmental Assessment (EA) policies and procedures of potential POs
against its EMF Guidelines. The EMF Guidelines suggest policies and procedures for environmental
management, and provides simple tools for early screening of activities to ensure that they are subject to an
adequate, but not unnecessarily burdensome, level of environmental assessment and mitigation. The EMF
Guideline is designed to ensure that, in its implementation, POs comply with the World Bank's Safeguard
Policies. PPAF engaged the services of a leading environmental consulting firm in Pakistan to complete the EMF
Guidelines.
7. Participatory approach:
The project is the result of a participatory initiative between GOP, IDA, PPAF, NGOs/RSPs and the private
sector.
Preparation       Implementation        Operation
Beneficiaries/ Community Groups          IS/CON             CON/COL            IS/CON/COL
Intermediary NGOs/RSPs                   IS/CON             CON/COL            IS/CON/COL
Private Sector                           IS/CON               CON              IS/CON/COL
Other Donors                             IS/CON                iS                  IS
Each of the stakeholders has been identified above, with their form of planned involvement described as:
IS (Information Sharing), CON (Consultation), COL (Collaboration)



Page 30
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
There are several dimensions to sustainability; i.e. of the institutions themselves (PPAF and its POs), their
programs, of individual sub-loans/sub-projects and the cost to the Government in terms of providingconcessional
lending to the PPAF and its impact on the budget. These would be addressed in the following manner:
A. Institutions and their Programs
PPAF
FinEncial arrangements need to ensure that the PPAF has the financial autonomy to be able to carry out its
agenda, without fear of compromise and yet have to exhibit high performance levels to attract additional funding.
This will depend to a large degree on the continued commitment of government, donors and stakeholders. The
following aspects are to be considered:
PPAF equity: GOP has decided to provide the PPAF with an equity of Rs.500 million (US$10 million), in the
form of a permanent endowment. The funds will be invested in long-term Government securities, the revenues of
which will accrue to PPAF's overall revenues. A first tranche of the endowment, in an amount of Rs. 100 million
has been approved for release on May 18, 1999. Two other tranches of Rs.200 million each will be provided at
the beginning of FY 2000 and FY 2001, respectively.
Micro-credit operations: The long-term vision is to build up PPAF's equity through retained earnings generated
by its lending activities. It is also expected that, based on solid financial performance, the PPAF would be able to
raise funds directly from the domestic financial markets. In the early years, however, the high operating costs
needed to build up the capacity of the PPAF and its POs will exceed PPAF's financial margins. Further, the PPAF
will have to rely on the Government and the donor community, including IDA, for providing the financial
resources to be on-lent to the POs.
Community Infrastructure: The beneficiary communities would be expected to contribute to the capital costs of
infrastructure projects, including, over the medium-term, borrowing for income-generating infrastructure
investments. A significant part of these investments will, however, need to be grant-financed. Following the
completion of the project, and on the premise that the program and the PPAF have demonstrated their usefulness
and efficiency, it is expected that future funding would be provided from the budget and the donor community.
Financial Performance: The PPAF would need to function as an effective and efficient apex institution to attract
donor support. In order to do this it will have to maintain an efficient management structure, reasonable
profitability and a sound financial position. Present projections show operating costs as a percentage of total
average assets steadily going down from 10.2% in the first year of its operations to 3.7% in the fifth year, and
steadying at 2% beyond year six. The other efficiency ratio shows personnel cost continually declining as a
percentage of operating costs. However, it is only after the fifth year that PPAF is expected to break even. Until
then, PPAF's operating deficit will have to be absorbed, in diminishing amounts, by the Credit proceeds. As of
year six, PPAF should be able to fully cover its operating costs, with profits rising to US$1 million by year nine.
Return on assets show a modest earning of 0.4% in the seventh year going upto 1% in the tenth year. Detailed
financial indicators are included in Annex 5.
Partner Organizations
The strategy for POs to become sustainable would include the following:
* Credit operations: POs need to be self-sustaining if they are to achieve their outreach potential and provide
access to credit to the poor on a continuous basis. Funds for PO credit operations would be forthcoming from
the PPAF, based on PO performance, specially with regards to high repayments, low delinquency rates and



Page 31
on-lending rates that will be expected to cover the PPAF interest rate, PO overheads, and delinquency
charges.
Interest rate policy for partner organizations: POs selected by PPAF would be free to determine their on-
lending rates. These rates should be sufficient to cover their operating costs which are expected to range from
18-28% (excluding start up costs), as depicted by the graph below which shows actual costs of a typical PO
operation in a new village. In addition, POs will also incur start-up costs (8-12%) for expanding in new areas
to increase its outreach, generally spread over a period of 3 years. These additional costs of expansion will be
financed under the project through capacity building grants provided by PPAF. Without grant funding on-
lending rates inclusive of start-up costs would have ranged from 26-40%. On-lending by POs would not be
below commercial bank rate (and long-term deposit rates) to avoid market distortions and abuse.
Nevertheless, POs would also need to keep their costs down, as these are the costs the poor will have to bear.
PPAF, through its institutional assessment, continuous monitoring, performance benchmarks, and audits will
need to ensure that the POs it supports are lean institutions and that they do not take advantage of operating in
a non-competitive market.
Program Costs for Providing Credit to a Single Village
8- 12%
% 9-                 Full cost range (26 - 4%V.)            Start-up Cost
9- 15%  Full cost range (26-40%)         ~~~~~0 Operating Cost
3  Loan Loss Provision
3 -Cost of Funds
[ 6-8%
1                 2      Year                         4
Infrastructure and other components: Funds for these would be provided based on selection of sub-projects
that have strong beneficiary support manifested by contributions towards capital costs in cash or kind, and
full contribution towards maintenance. In the short/medium-term, the operating costs of the PO for delivering
these services, would be financed by the PPAF. However, as a long-term strategy, POs would be encouraged
to charge communities for services provided for infrastructure and enterprise development components. This
would also ensure that the services an intermediary provides, are market-driven and competitive.
B. Individual Loans/Sub-Projects with Communities
For individual projects and loans the approach would include:
*  Repayment of credit: For long term self-sufficiency, savings by beneficiaries built over a period of time (5-7
years), should provide an adequate financial resource base, for them to graduate out of the system, by using
their savings as collateral to access the market and allow POs to increase their portfolio horizontally.
*  Payment to partner organizations for technical assistance: This would encourage communities to demand
those services that provide value added to their product i.e. if they get a higher price as a result of certain
specialist input.
*  Maintenance of infrastructure: Schemes would only be approved based on an assessment of the community's
willingness and ability to contribute 100% towards maintaining and operating these scheme. In view of the
fact that many of these would be income generating schemes, the enhanced earnings should adequately cover
the cost of their maintenance.



Page 32
C. Costs of Grant and Concessional Lending and its Impact on the Budget
The costs to GOP of this operations would be twofold -- grant costs for the infrastructure and capacity building
components and cost of concessional lending to PPAF and POs for micro-credit. As 100% of the cost of
infrastructure would be passed on to the poor, with the PPAF and its POs serving as conduits, these costs are fully
justified. The capacity building grant costs are also justified as these would allow the PPAF and its POs to bring
banking to the doorsteps of the poor, and also enable them to pursue their agenda of social empowerment in
alleviating poverty. The direct fiscal impact of both these costs on the budget is about US$10-12 million annually
(a subsidy of approximately US$42 (Rs.2,000) per beneficiary over the life of the Project).
Lending US$45 million for micro-credit, at concessional lending terms, i.e. at IDA terms and below market rates
will not be a direct fiscal cost to the GOP with the exception of the foreign exchange risk borne by GOP. The
rationale for providing funds at concessional rates for micro-credit is that this would provide the PPAF and its
POs the ability to build up their equity and the long-term sustainability of their lending services. Since POs are
basically cost-minimization pass-through organizations, the benefits would mostly flow to the poor. In view of
this, a policy of leaving money in the hands of the poor, particularly women, as against generating re-flows back
to the government through higher re-lending rates is also fully justified. A potential fiscal cost over and above the
exchange rate depreciation would result from the possibility of default; i.e. the PPAF not being able to repay
GOP. This would arise due to a default by POs. PPAF's risk management measures would ensure that debt
default remain within acceptable limits and are not passed-on to GOP.
The desirability and level of concessional public funding needs to be regularly revisited, in line with the changing
poverty status of beneficiaries, improving financial position of the PPAF and POs and the development of
linkages between the PO and the formal financial system. The monitoring and impact evaluation system to be
established within PPAF would enable GOP and IDA to review this issue periodically.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting risks in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating          Risk Minimization Measure
Project Objectives
1. Autonomous PPAF                         Substantial PPAF's statutory constitution and articles clearly
Despite the autonomous status of PPAF, there          articulate transparent processes for Board's
coul[d be government and political interference;      adherence. PPAF's General Body and BOD
also being a new institution it may take much         comprises  of  eminent  Pakistanis  with  a
longer to initiate its activities and be more         commitment to poverty alleviation. As a new and
susceptible to outside pressure                       apolitical institution, PPAF is in a position to
ensure  that  it incorporates  best practices
worldwide and fast track its operations.
2. Incomes ofpoor increase                   Low      POs are expected to provide capacity building and
Income of households do not increase due to           marketing  support and  advise  on  prudent
constrained market opportunities                      investment choices.
3. Poor, especially women, empowered       Substantial Procedures to mainstream women are an essential
Women still marginalized                              part of design. The project aims to address both
economic and social integration of women. The
PPAF intends to work only with those POs with
gender sensitive policies. In fact, 50% of the
organizations short-listed by PPAF exclusively
focus on women. Furthermore, PPAF through its
process of monitoring and the collection and
analysis of gender disaggregated data would



Page 33
continuously monitor and evaluate the impact of
the project on women and ensure better policy
making and planning.
4. Access ofpoor to credit and infrastructure    Substantial Appropriate targeting  of poor communities,
Capture by local elite and other possible             participatory processes, and careful screening of
misuses of micro-credit and grant funds               projects. Also market based lending rates would
make PPAF's loans less attractive to the elite who
have hijacked concessional lending.
5. Program expansion through POs           Moderate  Strong focus on institutional and human resource
Inadequate outreach and absorptive capacity of        development and effective capacity building
POs, prevent expansion of program on large            measures to increase outreach.
scale
6. Implementation                          Moderate  Tight eligibility criteria, close monitoring and
Disbursement driven implementation                    supervision and reassessment of Project size
during mid-term review.
7. Financial management                    Moderate  For PPAF, effective supervision, mandatory
Financial mismanagement by PPAF and POs               financial and performance audits. For POs, three
levels of audit (details in E-2), disbursements
linked to performance.
Project Components
1. Micro-credit                            Moderate  Loan loss provisions by both the PPAF (4%) and
High delinquency rates                                POs (2.5-5%); careful selection of POs with high
repayment track records; PPAF's rigorous
supervision and audits; also cost of delinquency
built into interest rate. However, if an event
occurs e.g. a large PO collapsing, which, in the
opinion of IDA, adversely affects or may affect,
the equity capital of PPAF, the Govemment shall
promptly consult with IDA and prepare and
thereafter implement a remedial action plan,
satisfactory to IDA. PPAF's equity capital shall
be deemed adversely affected it if at any time
falls by 10% or more.
2. Community Infrastructure                Moderate  Approval of schemes by POs only after strong
Communities not maintaining schemes                   beneficiary  participation  and  demonstrated
willingness of communities to contribute to
operations and maintenance.
3. Capacity Building                       Substantial Provision of technical assistance by project.
Non-availability of human resources for
capacity building
Overall Risk Rating  Substantial
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Moderate Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible controversial aspects:
* Conflicting policies of other organizations providing assistance to NGOs, might send confusing signals and
discourage NGOs from adopting measures that encourage sustainability.



Page 34
* High interest rates being charged by POs to cover costs and ensure sustainability may provoke charges of
usury.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. For negotiations:
* Agreement on an acceptable Operations Manual, Environmental Management Framework and a Project
Implementation Plan.
2. Prior to Board presentation:
The status of Board conditions is as follows:
*  Positions of General Manager Community Infrastructure and General Manager Human Resource
Development have been filled;
*  Govermment of Pakistan has approved release of the first tranche (US$2 million) of its US$10 million
contribution to the PPAF;
*  PPAF's Board of Directors has approved the Operations Manual and ratified the changes agreed during
negotiations; and
*  PPAF's Board of Directors has, in principle, approved funding for the first batch of POs. Letters of intent
along with the terms and conditions of the Financing Agreements have been sent to 4 of these POs, each of
whom have sent their concurrence.
3. C(onditions of effectiveness:
* Signing of the Subsidiary Financing Agreement between the Government of Pakistan and the PPAF; and
*  Ratification of the Project Agreement by PPAF's Board of Directors.
4. Covenants:
Governance Covenants:
* PPAF shall, at all times:
* be governed in accordance with the Memorandum and Articles of Association and it will not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Memorandum and Articles of Association or any provisions thereof if, in
the opinion of IDA, such assignment, amendment abrogation or waiver will materially and adversely
affect PPAF's performance or the implementation of the project;
* promptly inform IDA of any change in the composition of its General Body, BOD, or its Management
Team, and ensure that any such change will be made in accordance with the procedures set forth in the
Memorandum and Articles of Association;
* maintain a BOD which shall have general oversight of the project, and which shall be required to meet to
discuss project-related operational (and other) issues matters no less than four times a year;
E maintain staff, to include a CEO and unit heads for credit and enterprise development, community
infrastructure, human resource development, monitoring, evaluation and research, finance and accounts
and internal audit, all of whom shall have appropriate experience and qualifications and shall have been
appointed on merit and in a transparent and competitive manner; and
* ensure the following: (i) carry out its activities under the project in accordance with the procedures,
principles and practices set forth in the Operations Manual and the EMF; (ii) take all measures necessary to
ensure that their activities under the project are carried out by POs in conformity with the Operations
Manual and the EMF; and (iii) not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operations Manual or the EMF or
any provisions thereof if, in the opinion of IDA, such assignmnent, amendment abrogation or waiver will
materially and adversely affect PPAF's performance or the implementation of the project.



Page 35
Financial Covenants:
*   GOP's contribution towards the remaining endowment of US$8 million would be provided in equal
installments of US$4 million in August 2000 and August 2001.
*   The PPAF shall:
u have its annual financial statements prepared in accordance with IAS and the records, accounts and
financial statements including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with International Standards on Auditing, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA;
• furnish to IDA, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year: (i) certified copies of the financial statements for such year as so audited, and (ii) an opinion on
such financial statements, records and accounts and a report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and
• furnish to IDA such other information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as IDA
shall from time to time reasonably request.
*  The level of financing to be made available to each PO by the PPAF will be determined in accordance with its
performance and absorptive capacity related criteria set forth in the Operations Manual; and such financing
will be reduced, suspended, terminated and/or recalled if, at any time, in the opinion of PPAF, a PO is no
longer in full compliance with the criteria.
* POs must have a system of internal and external audits and annual audits conducted by reputable firms and
should be willing to accept mandatory extemal audits by a firm of chartered accountants acceptable to the
PPAF. POs will have to undergo the year-end statutory audit of their annual financial statements, carried out
in accordance with the requirement of the law under which they are registered and submit this to PPAF within
5 months of the end of the fiscal year. In addition thereto, POs must provide an audited financial statement
(project account) showing the results of the activities of the project for the year and on a cumulative basis.
*  PPAF will not on-lend to any single PO an aggregate amount greater than 25% of the Credit amount allocated
for micro-credit; and not provide as grant to any single PO an aggregate amount greater than 20% of the
Credit amount allocated for community infrastructure.
*  If an event occurs which, in the opinion of IDA, adversely affects or may affect the equity capital of the
PPAF, the Government will promptly consult with IDA and prepare and thereafter implement a remedial
action plan, satisfactory to IDA. PPAF's equity capital shall be deemed adversely affected if, at any time, it
erodes by 10% or more.
Reporting Covenants:
* The PPAF shall:
*  prepare and provide to IDA, with effect from FY 2000, for its review and comments, semi-annual
progress reports in a form acceptable to IDA, including an evaluation of the implementation of the
various components of the project, identification of any problems encountered and suggested remedial
actions, and a work plan and budget required for the implementation of the project in the ensuing year;
a  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in
accordance with indicators15 satisfactory to IDA, the carrying out of the project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof;
* prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, and furnish to the Government and IDA on or
about September 30, 2001, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to the above paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the project
during the period preceding the date of the report and setting out measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the project and the achievement of the objectives in the future; and
Set forth in a supplemental letter, agreed at negotiations.



Page 36
a review with the Government and IDA, by December 31, 2001, the above mentioned report and, take
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the project and the achievement of the objectives,
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the report and IDA's views on the matter.
H. Readiness for Implementation
The project is fully ready for implementation.
[ 3   The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [/] Not applicable.
[11   The first batch of PO funding has been approved by PPAF's Board of Directors.
[ ]   The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation. [/] Not applicable.
[/]   The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[11   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies. At present, however, the project is not considered
eligible for PMR based disbursement. A one year target date for conversion to PMR based disbursement
has been agreed at negotiations.
[signature]        /
Qazii Azmat Isa/>/ZG/
Task Leader              K
[signature]  
Marilou Jane D. Uy         d
Sector Manager
[signature]
Sadiq Ahmed
Country Direc or



Page 37
Annex 1
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary         Key Performance           Monitoring &              Critical Risks
Indicators              Evaluation
Sector-Related CAS Goal:
*  Reduce poverty in     *  Increased income of  *  Pakistan Integrated    *   Macro-economic
Pakistan                those directly           Household Survey          situation is not
*  Enhance stakeholder       assisted by the         results                   stable
participation in         project              *  PPAF's Annual        .   Inadequate
development process   *  Improved social         Reports                   commitment of the
indicators amongst    *  World Bank              Government towards
those directly          Supervision Report        poverty reduction
assisted by the                              *   Environment for
project                                           NGOs and CBOs
*  Involvement of                                    not conducive for
stakeholder                                       carrying out their
communities in the                                operations
design,
implementation and
supervision of sub-
______ __  projects _
Project Development
Objective:
*  Increase incomes of   *  Increase in incomes   *  Quarterly and        *  Focus on quantitative
poor                     and assets of project   Annual Reports of        indicators alone
*  Empower the poor          beneficiaries           the PPAF             *  Socio-cultural factors
specially women      a  Increase in the      *  World Bank                prevent
*  Increase access of        number of               Supervision Reports      mainstreamning of
poor communities to      beneficiaries,       .  Impact Evaluation        women
infrastructure           especially women,       Study                 *  Local elite's
*  Strengthen the            reached through     *  Pakistan Integrated       monopolize program
institutional capacity   project interventions   Household Survey         interventions
of the PPAF, its     *  Increased grants to      results              *  PPAF faces political
partners and             communities for      *  Baseline survey and      and bureaucratic
communities             infrastructure           periodic impact          interference
development             evaluation to assess
.  Increased number of      changes due to PPAF
POs and                 interventions
communities
participating in
PPAF's work
*  Improved capacity to
undertake sub-
projects
independently



Page 38
Project Components/Sub-
components:
Micro-credit - provision    *  Increased outreach    *  Quarterly and   *  Limited capacity of
of micro-credit through     of POs for on-          Annual Reports of       POs
POs                         lending activities     the PPAF             *  High delinquency
*  Increased           *  Quarterly and            rates on loans
disbursements to       Annual Reports of
POs for credit         POs
*  Credit being        *  World Bank
provided to the poor    Supervision Reports
by POs at rates that   *  Impact Evaluation
fully cover all costs  Studies
and being paid back
Community Infrastructure  *  Increased number of  *  Quarterly and      *  Communities not
schemes being          Annual Reports of        maintaining schemes
identified,            the PPAF             *  Monopoly of the
implemented and     *  Quarterly and            local elites regarding
maintained by          Annual Reports of        what kind and where
communities            POs                      an infrastructure
*  World Bank               scheme should be
Supervision Reports     developed
*  Impact Evaluation
Studies
Strengthening the       *  Improved capacity to  *  Quarterly and       *  Weak management
Institutional Capacity of   assess, monitor and     Annual Reports of       and financial controls
the PPAF                    supervise POs and       the PPAF                of PPAF
communities to      *  Quarterly and
undertake project      Annual Reports of
activities             POs
*  Progress towards    *  World Bank
financial              Supervision Reports
sustainability of the   *  Impact Evaluation
PPAF                    Studies
Strengthening the       *  Increase in the      *  Quarterly and        *  Weak management
Institutional Capacity of   number of POs           Annual Reports of       and financial controls
the POs                     involved in sub-       the PPAF                 of POs
project activities  *  Quarterly and
*  Financially viable      Annual Reports of
micro-credit            POs
institutions        *  World Bank
*  Cost-effective          Supervision Reports
provision of non-   *  Impact Evaluation
lending services        Studies



Page 39
Annex 2
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Picture Portfolio
The difficult terrain makes delivery of services to communities in rural areas expensive. Yet it
is in these areas where help is needed most. The picture shows hamlets in the Kanchogi
Valley, Muslimbagh, Balochistan.



Page 40
Micro-credit operations of most POs includes a complete package of training's
and capacity building, essential for the empowerment of the poor, specially
women.
Crossing the river. . . THEN                               ... and NOW, in Baltistan
(AKRSP, Fifteenth Annual Review, 1997)
Infrastructure schemes can play a major role in improving the quality of life of the poor.



Page 41
Economic empowerment of women is one of the key development objectives of
the project.



Page 42
Annex 3
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Detailed Project Description
I. Services to the Poor
1. Micro-Credit - US$45 million
This component will provide loans to POs for on-lending to individuals or groups of individuals who meet the
eligibility criteria of the PPAF. In consonance with sound principles of financing, POs will on-lend to the
poor at rates that ultimately cover their directly attributable credit administration costs, loan loss, cost of
funds and reasonable profit to maintain real value of equity. A minimum lending rate will be imposed and
strictly monitored by the PPAF to ensure that POs do not on-lend PPAF funds to clients at rates below the
prevailing commercial market rate. PPAF will not on-lend to any single PO an aggregate amount greater than
25% of the amount allocated for micro-credit.
M4ost potential POs of the PPAF make a conscious effort to mainstream the poor and women in their
development work. Therefore, for the time being, PPAF will be accepting the poverty targeting
methodologies of its POs. However, in the future, a specific working measure of poverty at the district level
would be developed by the PPAF to enable more effective targeting of the poor. Loans will be extended to
the poor, people living in disadvantaged rural and urban communities, women, people living in under-served
districts, people living in communities with high unemployment/ underemployment; and, people living in
communities that lack essential infrastructure, for investment purposes so that they can establish a permanent
income base. Typical loan sizes are expected to be between Rs.2,500 to Rs.15,000 (US$50 to US$300) for
individuals and between Rs.20,000 to Rs.50,000 (US$400 to US$1,000) for groups.
NRSP and AKRSP, two of the largest partner organizations of the PPAF, were analysed for uses of micro-
credit. If past trends continue, loans disbursed under the micro-credit component will primarily be used for
agricultural inputs, livestock, trade, and setting up of small shops.
Types of Micro-Credit Loans
30%                         M Agriculture
_  Enterprise Development
o Livestock Development
O Small Infrastructure as
25%   Individual Enterprise
* Working Capital
This would mean that out of the total US$45 million, US$19 million could be disbursed for agricultural
inputs, US$14 million for enterprise development and US$11 million for livestock development. Returns on
typical micro-credit loans are fairly high as the study conducted by NRSP of their credit program shows
below:



Page 43
rdit Paekei                X A*ouit of Loin    Coverage         Net Benefit   Cost Benefit Riio
,.  .'    ,   .   (R.)              '  '             ls.
Improved Seed                  10,000           25 acres         25,100             0.40
Fertilizer                     10,000          7.8 acres         31,400             0.32
Irrigation Motors              25,000          8-10 acres        157,125            0.16
Enterprise Development         30,000        50 households       84,300             0.36
Buffalo                        30,000         7 households       40,825             0.73
Sheep/ Goats                   15,000             -               19,700            0.76
Cattle Breeding                15,000             -              32,000             0.47
Land Leveling                  15,000          2-4 acres         189,000            0.08
2. Community Infrastructure - US$35 million, including contingencies
This component will support, in the form of grants on a cost sharing basis, small scale community
infrastructure sub-projects. Identification of sub-projects will be demand driven and their selection will be
transparent and based on sustainability as determined by the ability of the communities to recover operations
and maintenance costs. POs will act as intermediary agencies, to assist communities in organizing as groups
and preparing, implementing and managing these schemes. These schemes will contribute significantly in
improving the quality of the life of the poor. The photo file (Annex 2) shows just one such example. Schemes
will not only provide poor communities with assets that contribute to increasing incomes and production but
will also act as investments in strengthening their organizations. To avoid overlap with the PDP, PPAF would
not be providing grants for social sector investments, except for drinking water supply schemes. This
exception has been made as i) water supply schemes are often used for irrigation, ii) there is immense
demand for water in the poorest areas which are the most neglected, and iii) provision of water supply is
likely to have a major beneficial impact on the quality of life of women saving them many hours of tedious
labor, and freeing them for more productive activities and quality free time.
Types of Infrastructure Projects
23%
31%
33 Irrigation
-  Link Roads & Bridges
* Drinking Water Supply
22%     0 Others
24%
If past trends of NRSP and AKRSP continue, community infrastructure projects are likely to focus on
drinking water supply, irrigation channels, culverts, excavation of karezes, flood diversion and protective
works, and link roads. This would imply that out of the total US$35 million allocated for the infrastructure
component, US$14 million would be spent on roads, tracks and bridges and US$10 million each on irrigation
related projects and drinking water supply projects. The average size of a typical scheme is expected to be
approximately Rs.500,000 (US$10,000), with a per capita limit of Rs.5,000 per scheme. Community
contribution, on average, is expected to be 20% of the total capital cost (i.e. US$7 million). PPAF will not
provide to any single PO an aggregate amount greater than 20% of the amount allocated for this component.



Page 44
II. Capacity Building to Deliver Services to the Poor
3. Capacity Building of Partner Organizations - US$10 million, including contingencies
This component will support, on a declining basis, in the form of grants, capacity building of communities
and POs in order to improve their effectiveness in implementing poverty alleviation programs. The purpose
of this component is to cover the cost of the initial investment required by POs when expanding micro-credit
and/ or support services for community infrastructure to new clients and new areas. As such, it will include
initial community mobilization costs, training of community members, direct branch office costs and part of
indirect regional/head office costs and overheads. The level of support will be structured to ensure that by
the end of the Capacity Building Agreement with the PPAF, the PO will be able to assume, the full direct
operational costs of the branch office through the interest income generated by the branch's loan portfolio.
Given international best practices in the micro-finance sector, PPAF assesses that branch level viability can
be achieved within a three year period, assuming there are 500 clients per community organizer1, there is an
18% interest rate spread, lending begins within 3 months of social mobilization, and an average loan size of
Rs. 12,000 is reached by the end of year 3. Capacity building grants will be clearly linked to enhancing the
POs' capacity in delivering micro-credit and community infrastructure (Detailed guidelines on this
component are provided in Annex 5).
Community mobilization and other participatory approaches of POs, enable communities to plan, implement
and manage development initiatives in a much more effective and sustainable manner.
Capacity building of communities by POs would comprise training community activists to assume
leadership responsibilities at local level, providing specialized (refer to the photo file for one such example),
technical and managerial training to community members for them to manage enterprises they initiate with
micro-credit loans and to plan and manage community infrastructure projects.
4. Capacity Building of the PPAF - US$7 million, including contingencies
IDA's contribution to PPAF for capacity building will support the following: (i) operating costs, of the
PPAF, on a declining basis, this would include training for PPAF's staff; (ii) technical assistance costs, to
carry-out various studies, and impact evaluations; and (iii) cost of fixed assets. Detailed costing breakdown
of this component is provided in the PIP (See Documents in Project File, Annex 8).
III. PPAF's Equity
5. Endowmentfrom the Government of Pakistan - US$10 million
GOP will provide from its own resources to the PPAF, an endowment equivalent to US$10 million, which
would serve as PPAF's equity. The endowment would be spread over a three year period, with US$2 million
given prior to Board presentation, US$4 million in August 2000 and another US$4 million in August 2001.
Interest earned on the endowment will support PPAF's core institutional costs. If the Endowment Fund is
eroded as a result of PPAF incurring operating losses, which in IDA's opinion would have a negative impact
on the financial viability of PPAF's future operations, GOP, after discussions with IDA, would promptly
initiate an inquiry to identify the events which have led to such depletion, and develop and implement an
action plan, acceptable to IDA, to remedy these deficiencies. In addition, GOP may i) reduce the scope of
IAlthough this figure is considerably higher than the international standard of 250-300 clients per field officer, this variance
can be explained by two factors. Firstly, the practice of RSPs in Pakistan is to mobilize clients into community organizations
of 25 members, rather than the Grameen style solidarity groups of five. Further, the RSP model compensates with a higher
than usual supervisory cost as there is one Regional Office MF Specialist employed for every two field officers.



Page 45
the micro-credit and grant facilities as set out in Schedule 1 of the Credit Agreement or ii) enhancePPAF's
equity.



Page 46
Annex 4
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                        Local        Foreign       Total
-----------------------US$ million-----------------
I. Services to the Poor
(1)  Micro-Credit                                          45                     45
(2)  Community Infrastructure                              33          2          35
Sub Total          78          2          80
II. Capacity Building to Deliver Services to the Poor
(3)  Capacity Building of POs                              10                     10
(4)  Capacity Building of the PPAF                          5          2           7
Sub Total          15          2          17
I., PPAF's Equity
(5)  Endowmentfrom GOP                                     10                     10
Total Project Cost       103          4          107



Page 47
Project Components
33%                 * Micro-Credit
* Community Infrastructure
3 Capacity Building of POs
O Capacity Building of PPAF
- Endowment from GOP
42%                      9%/o
|IDA Fundg
31%
* Micro-Credit
* Community Infrastructure
%  Capacity Building of POs
|   50%                       8%o              0Capacity Building of PPAF
OCapac~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



Page 48
Annex 5
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Financial Forecasts for the PPAF
5.0.1  Sources and Uses of Funds
5.0.2  Income Statement
5.0.3  Balance Sheet
5.0.4  Projection Assumptions
5.0.5  Financial Indicators
5.0.6  Financial Forecasts for the Micro-credit Component
5.0.7  Financial Forecasts for the Community Infrastructure Component
5.0.8  Financial Forecasts for the POs' Capacity Building Component



Page 49
Annex 5.0.1
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Sources and Uses of Funds
(in millions of current USa$)
SOIJRCES    3 USES OF FUtS                   FYOO   FY01   F0    FY03   FY04    Y__ FYff6    FY07    FY08    F9
Sources of Funds
a. Net Income                                  0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00   0.01      0.32     0.75      0.98     1.29
Add back: 
b.  Depreciation                               0.04    0.07     0.10    0.37     0.43    0.48     0.52     0.58     0.63      0.70
C.  Loan Loss Provision                        0.00    0.19    0.36    0.65      1.10    1.82     2.53     3.38     4.05      4.87
d. IDA (less support for operational expenses)  8.36   8.89    13.98   22.25    34.70  24.87    29.33    26.73    30.74    37.82
e. Endowment                                   2.00             4.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
f. Repayment by POs                           0.00     4.80     9.00    16.20   27.41  45.41    63.35    84.47   101.36   121.64
Total   10.41    17.96   27.44   39.46    63.63  72.59    96.07   115.91   137.77   166.30
Uses of Funds
a. Disbursements - micro-credit                4.80    9.00    16.20   27.41    45.41   63.35    84.47   101.36   121.64   145.96
b. Disbursements - grant                       3.36    4.53     6.63    9.73    15.20   5.30      6.41     7.85     8.28    11.09
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _                                          . 1-    1. 3      . 4     . 6_   _1.~O~     9
c. Purchase of Fixed Assets                    0.20    0.16     0.15    1.31     1.49    1.64     1.80     1.98     2.18      2.40
d. Investment of Endowment                     2.00    4.00     4.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00
e  Change in Working Capital                   0.04    0.26     0.46    1.01     1.53   2.30      3.38     4.71     5.67      6.85
Total   10.41    17.96   27.44   39.46   63.63  72.59    96.07   115.91   137.77   166.30
Support beyond this project assumes continued assistance by donors/GOP.



Page 50
Annex 5.0.2
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Income Statement
(in millions of current US$J
~~~~~~~WOO                                F      :Th   wi,,y~0) F~S                  W
Operating Income
Interest income from loans               0.00    0.34     0.63     1.13    1.92   3.18      4.43     5.91     7.10      8.51
Income from investments                  0.30     0.75     1.20    1.50    1.50   1.50      1.50     1.50     1.50      1.50
Operational support from IDA             0.65     0.28    0.03    0.11    0.11   0.00       0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
Total Operating Income    0.95  1.36     1.86    2.74    3.52   4.68      5.93      7.41     8.60    10.01
Operating Expense
Service charges (credit component)       0.04    0.03     0.05    0.08    0.14   0.13       0.16     0.13     0.15     0.18
Commitment fee (credit component)        0.10     0.09    0.07    0.05    0.00   0.21       0.15     0.11     0.06     0.00
Loan loss provision                      0.00     0.19    0.36    0.65     1.10   1.82      2.53     3.38     4.05     4.87
Personnel expenses                       0.50    0.67     0.86     1.09    1.26   1.39      1.53     1.68     1.85     2.03
Other operating expenses                 0.21     0.29    0.38    0.48    0.57   0.63       0.69     0.76     0.84     0.92
Depreciation                             0.04     0.07    0.10    0.37    0.43   0.48       0.52     0.58     0.63     0.70
Training expenses                        0.06     0.02    0.02    0.03    0.02   0.02       0.02     0.02     0.02     0.02
Total Operating Expense    0.95  1.36     1.86    2.74    3.52   4.67      5.61     6.66     7.61      8.73
Profit for the Year    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.01      0.32     0.75     0.98      1.29



Page 51
Annex 5.0.3
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Balance Sheet
(in millions of current US$)
FY0O   F0-T Wy0l 2   FY03   F           WY0 F    F0       FY07 ( FY            0-9
Assets
a. Cffas-h                                    0.04    0.31     0.77     1.78    3.31   5.61      8.99    13.70    19.37    26.22
b. Loans Receivable (micro-credit)            4.80    9.00    16.20   27.41    45.41  63.35    84.47   101.36   121.64   145.96
c.  Less: Provision for Loan Loss             0.00    0.19    0.55      1.20    2.30   4.11     6.65    10.03    14.08    18.95
d.                          Net Receivables    4.80    8.81    15.65   26.21    43.12  59.24    77.82    91.34   107.56   127.02
e. Fixed Assets                               0.20    0.36    0.51      1.83    3.32   4.96     6.76      8.75    10.93    13.33
f.  Less: Accumulated Depreciation            0.04    0.11     0.22    0.58     1.01   1.49     2.01      2.59     3.23     3.92
9.                         Net Fixed Assets    0.16    0.25    0.30     1.24    2.30   3.47     4.75      6.15     7.70     9.41
h. Investment                                 2.00    6.00    10.00   10.00    10.00  10.00    10.00    10.00    10.00    10.00
Total Assets    7.00   15.36   26.71   39.23    58.73  78.32   101.56   121.19   144.63   172.65
Represented By
a. Long Term Debt                             4.80    9.00    16.20   27.41    45.41  63.35    84.47   101.36   121.64   145.96
Equity_
b.  Capital                                   2.20    6.36    10.51    11.83    13.32  14.96    16.76    18.75    20.93    23.33
c.  Retained Earnings                         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.01       0.33      1.08     2.07     3.35
d.                             Total Equity    2.20    6.36    10.51    11.83    13.32  14.96    17.09    19.83    22.99    26.68
Total Equity and Liabilities    7.00   15.36   26.71   39.23   58.73  78.32   101.56   121.19   144.63   172.65



Page 52
Annex 5.0.4
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Projection Assumptions
1  PPAF will charge 7% markup on its loans (i. e. an average of the 6% and 8% differentiated rate charged to POs).
2 Loans disbursed to the POs will be repaid after twelve months, and will be used for on-lending by the PPAF in the next year.
3 Depreciation is on a 20% straight line basis.
4  A service charge of 0.75%will be paid on loans for micro-credit only.
5 Commitment fee of 0.25% will be paid on the undisbursed IDA amount for micro-credit.
6 Endowment will be invested in government securities yielding 15% per annum. In the interest of prudence, it has been assumed
that the second and third tranches from GOP would be invested at the end of the first and second quarter of that year
respectively.
7 No provision for taxation has been made as permission for exemption is being sought.
8 Operating costs include salaries, per diem, and benefits of staff, operating and maintenance costs of vehicles, equipment and
offices used in carrying out the project. IDA contribution towards these costs are on a declining basis.
9 Loan loss provision has been taken as 4% of loans outstanding.
10 In the sixth year, PPAF is expected to obtain S$ 150 million from various donors for expansion of its operations. The breakdown
of this project is expected to be as follows:
micro-credit             US$100 million
infrastructure            US$40 million
capacity building of POs  US$10 million



Page 53
Annex 5.0.5
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Financial Indicators
FY00   FY01    FY02                             FYF08                             0
Profitability
Income on Loans/ Operating Income              0.0%    24.6%    33.9%    41.4%°   54.4%  67.9%    74.7%    79.8%    82.5%    85.0%
Income on Loans/ Loan Portfolio                0.0%    3.7%     3.9%     4.1%    4.2%    5.0%     5.3%      5.8%     5.8%      5.8%
Loan Portfolio/ Total Assets                  68.6%    58.6%    60.6%    69.9%    77.3%  80.9%    83.2%    83.6%    84.1%    84.5%
Return on Assets                               0.0%    0.0%     0.0%     0.0%    0.0%   0.0%      0.4%      0.7%     0.7%      0.8%
Return on Equity                               0.0%     0.0%    0.0%     0.0%    0.0%   0.0%      2.0%      4.1%     4.6%      5.2%
Efficiency
Personnel Costs/ Operating Costs              52.6%    48.9%    46.4%    39.7%    3 5.8%  29.7%    27.2%    25.2%    24.3%    23.3%
Total Operating Costs/ Average Total Assets   10.2%     8.5%    5.9%     4.8%    3.7%   2.9%      2.5%      2.2%     2.0%      1.9%
Sustainability
DebtnEquity                                      2.2     1.4      1.5     2.3      3.4    4.2       4.9       5.1      5.3       5.5
Capital Adequacy (equity/total assets)        31.4%    41.4%    39.4%    30.1%    22.7%   19.1%    16.8%    16.4%    15.9%    15.5%
Interest Margin/ Total Non-Financial Expenses  -16.9%    17.2%   29.1%    38.5%    52.6%  65.5%    77.8%    88.4%    93.0%    97.5%
Total Operating Income/ Total Expenses          1.00    1.00     1.00     1.00    1.00    1.00     1.06      1.11     1.13      1.15
Total Operating Income less Income from       68.4%    45.0%    35.4%    45.3%    57.4%  68.0%    79.0%    88.8%    93.2%    97.6%
Endowment/ Operating Costs
Liquidity
Current Assets/ Total Assets                    0.69    0.59     0.61    0.71     0.79   0.83      0.85     0.87      0.88     0.89



Page 54
Annex 5.0.6
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Financial Forecasts for the Micro-credit Component
No|                Event                |FY00 l FY01   FY02   FY03 | FY04   Total   FY05   FY06   FY07   FY08   FY09   Total
A. Assumptions
I Number of borrowers                   30,000  45,000  67,500  97,875  141,919            175,979 211,175 253,410 304,092 364,911
2  Average loan size (Rs.)                8,000   10,000   12,000   14,000   16,000    _   18,000  20,000  20,000  20,000  20,000
3  Number of borrowers/community            25       25      25       25       25               25      25       25      25      25
B. Financing (US$m)
I Amount disbursed to borrowers             4.8     9.0    16.2    27.4    45.4               63.4    84.5   101.4   121.6   146.0
Of which:
2    Financing through repayments by POs    0.0     4.8      9.0    16.2    27.4    57.4    45.4    63.4    84.5   101.4   121.6   416.2
3    IDA'                                   4.8     4.2      7.2    11.2    18.0    45.4    17.9    21.1    16.9    20.3    24.3   100.6
Support beyond this project assumes continued assistance by donors/GOP.



Page 55
Annex 5.0.7
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Financial Forecasts for the Community Infrastructure Component
No                 Event                  FY00  FY01  FY02   FY03   FY04  Total  FY05   FY06    FY07    FY08    FY09   Total
A. Assumptions
1 Average project size (Rs.)            500,000 575,000 661,250 760,438 874,503       961,953 1,058,149 1,163,964 1,280,360 1,408,396
2  Percentage of communities with CPI      20%    20%    20%       20%    20%             20%      20%       20%      20%       20%
projects                                                   I
3  Community input cost/total project cost  20%    20%    20%      20%    20%             20%      20%       20%      20%       20%
4  Cumulative number of communities       1,200   1,800  2,700   3,915  5,677            7,039    8,447    10,136    12,164    14,596
5  Communities eligible for CPI projects  1,200   1,560  2,148   2,933   4,108           4,649    5,127    5,791      6,660    7,761
6  Communities availing CPI projects        240    312    430       587    822            930     1,025     1,158     1,332    1,552
7  Communities availing CPI projects        240    552    982    1,568  2,390            3,320    4,345    5,503      6,836    8,388
(cumulative)                          _
B. Financing (US$m)
1  Cost of infrastructure                   2.4    3.6    5.7       8.9   14.4            17.9     21.7      27.0     34.1      43.7
Of which:
2    IDA'                                   1.9    2.9    4.5       7.1   11.5   28.0   14.3       17.4      21.6     27.3      34.9  115.5
3    Community contribution                 0.5    0.7    1.1       1.8    2.9    7.0    3.6        4.3       5.4      6.8       8.7   28.9
Support beyond this project assumes continued assistance by donors/GOP.



Page 56
Annex 5.0.8
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Financial Forecasts for the POs' Capacity Building Component
\  \
No                Event                 FY00   FY01   FY02   FY03   FY04   Total   FY05   FY06   FY07   FY08   FY09   Total
A. Assumptions
I  No of communities/field unit             50      50       50      50      50               50       50      50       50      50
2  No of field units                        24      36       54      78      114             141      169     203      243     292
3  New field unit startups                  24       12      18      24      35               27       28      34       41      49
4  New field unit startup costs
1) Start up (Rs.)              210,000  231,000  254,100  279,510  307,461       338,207  372,028  409,231  450,154  495,169
2) Annual Operating (Rs.)     2,250,000 2,475,000 2,722,500 2,994,750 3,294,2251   3,623,648 3,986,012 4,384,613 4,823,075 5,305,382
5  Total cost of field unit startups ($m)  1.07    1.36    1.79    2.36    3.70              3.92    4.26    4.99    6.46    8.53
1) Start up + 90% FY operating costs  1.07    0.59    0.97     1.45    2.31             1.86    2.12    2.80    3.69    4.87
2) 65% FY+I operating costs                   0.77    0.42    0.70    1.04              1.53    1.30    1.48     1.96    2.58
3) 30% FY+2 operating costs                           0.39    0.22    0.36              0.53    0.84    0.72    0.81      1.08
B. Financing (US$m)
Amount required for capacity building  1.07    1.36    1.79    2.36    3.70              3.92    4.26    4.99    6.46    8.53
Equipment                           0.07    0.04    0.06    0.08    0.12
Training                            0.01   0.004   0.006   0.008   0.012
Operations                          0.99     1.32    1.72    2.27    3.57
Financing from:                     _
IDA'                                  1.07    1.36    1.79    2.36    3.70   10.29    3.92    4.27    5.00    6.46    8.53   28.18
Equipment                           0.07    0.04    0.06    0.08    0.12    0.37
Training                            0.01   0.004   0.006   0.008   0.012    0.04
=__    Operations                           0.99    1.32    1.72    2.27    3.57    9.891
Note: Detailed assumptions for this component have been provided in Annex 5.0.8, Table A.
I Support beyond this project assumes continued assistance by donors/GOP.



Page 57
Annex 5.0.8
Table A
Capacity Building Guidelines for POs
(Assumptions based on isolated remote areas where costs are relatively higher
OPERATIONAL COSTS PER FIELD UNIT (eligible for 3 years)
Rs.
Salaries
Community organizers             240,000 (Rs. 10,000 per month * 2 organizers * 12 mths)
Assistants                       180,000 (Rs.5,000 per month * 3 assistants * 12 mths)
Travel expenses                     400,000 (Rs. 10/km * 100 km/day * 200 days * 2 organizers)
Office                              180,000 (Rs.15,000/mth * 12 mths)
Sub-total field units operational  1,000,000
costs
TRAINING COSTS PER FIELD UNIT (eligible for 3 years)
Community training (MF & infra)      50,000 (Rs.20,000 per trainer for 6 days of training; cost of participants: 20 people * Rs.200/day * 6 days
= 24,000)
Organizer training (MF & infra)      30,000 (Rs.7,500 per organizer per week * 2 weeks per year)
Sub-total field units training costs  80,000
INDIRECT OPERATIONAL COSTS (independent of number of field units) (eligible for 3 years for a given province)
3 Specialists                       720,000 (Rs.20,000 per mth * 12 mth * 3 specialists)
Overheads                           450,000 (25% of other operational costs) (including travel, managers' salaries, other expenses)
Sub-total indirect operational costs  1,170,000
TOTAL DIRECT COSTS                   2,250,000 (assumes only one field unit - variable according to number of field units @ 60 communities
(eligible for 3 years)                        organized per field unit by year 3)



Page 58
SET UP COSTS
(eligible for 1 year only)
Training costs per provincial unit  60,000 (Rs.7,500 per specialist and manager per week * 2 weeks per year * (3 specialists + 1 manager)
Equipment costs per field unit     150,000 (computer @ Rs.100,000 and furniture @ Rs.50,000)
Sub-total set up costs             210,000
REVENUE MODEL FOR 1 FIELD UNIT
Year 1     Year 2     Year 3
CBOs                                                 40          50         60
Clients                                            1,000      1,250       1,500
Borrowers                                           500         875       1,350
Average loan                                       5,000      7,000      12,000
Total portfolio                                2,500,000   6,125,000  16,200,000
Spread revenue    0.18                          450,000   1,102,500   2,916,000
Total revenue                                    262,500    918,750   2,430,000
Bad debt          0.03                            75,000    183,750    486,000
On-lending rate    0.24
Cost of capital   0.06



Page 59
Annex 5.1
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Review of Financial Management Systems
Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund (PPAF)
Organizational Structure
The organizational set up of the PPAF is as follows:
* General Body - 50 members
* Board of Directors - 12 members, 3 nominated by the government and 9 elected by the General Body
* Chief Executive Officer
* Executive Committee -- 5 directors belonging to the Board of Directors
Geeal Bo"
Board Of Drectors
|Head Credli & Enbtrpdz Dev |  Head Hunrm Resource Dev. |c |-   Head M& FNXnmy
ChiefExec tiv E xeui
Staffing/Distribution of Work
Presently, the Finance & Accounts Department comprises of the Head of the Department (HOD) and one
Management Executive (ME). The ME is responsible for processing payments after verification by the respective
departrnents and checking by the HOD. He is also responsible for maintaining the following records:
*  Bank Book
*  Cash Book (Imprest of Rs. 10,000 for petty expenses)
*  General Ledger
*  Journal
*  Fixed Assets Ledger
All books are updated on a daily basis and checked by the HOD. Segregation of duties is not adequate due to
incomplete staffing, however, once the other ME comes in this would be taken care of.
Budget Preparation & Execution
The budget for FY99 was prepared by the CEO since he was the first member to join the PPAF. It has been
approved by the BOD and the General Body. Budget Account Heads are compatible with the accounting system
and in sufficient detail for monitoring expenditure. Actual expenditure is compared with the budget on a monthly
basis. It has been suggested that a Budget Control Register be maintained so that budgetary control may be
exercised on individual transactions rather than doing it at the end of the month.



Page 60
For the future, inputs would be obtained from each department including project components for incorporating in
to the budget. CED would prepare budget for disbursement to partner organizations on a yearly basis, broken
down into quarters. This would be based on demands received from the partner organizations. Once compiled, the
budget would be reviewed by the CEO and the Finance Committee and approved by the Board of Directors and
the General Body.
Flow of Funds
1. The Bank will transfer funds into PPAF's Special Account on the basis of need assessment as per existing
procedures of the Bank. However, funds may be disbursed using the Project Management Reports (PMRs)
from the PPAF as soon as they are felt to be reliable.
2. The Finance Committee appointed by the BOD would approve disbursements to the partner organizations on
a monthly basis. Partner organizations will be required to submit the following with their request for
disbursement:
* Program for the next two years
* Previous year's performance on loans obtained and repaid, the incidence of default, explanation on
variances, etc.
* Audited financial statements
3. Partner organizations would disburse money to their community organizations on the basis of applications for
micro-credit, community infrastructure, etc.
Accounting System
Type of Accounting
Accounts are being maintained on double entry basis and Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
The Operational Manual includes the financial management policies.
Special Account
A Special Account will have to be opened for funds received from the Bank and disbursements therefrom. A
separate bankbook will have to be maintained and bank account reconciled with bank statements on a monthly
basis. Cheques will have to be signed jointly by the CE and another signatory to be designated by the BOD.
Accounting Functions Performed
Puurchases:
Presently, all payments are authorized by the CE. Only capital expenditures exceeding Rs.200,000 has to be
approved by the BOD. Authority to incur expenditure would be delegated once the Operations Manual is
finalized. Purchases are made on the basis of a Procurement Demand Slip (not pre-numbered) initiated by the
requisitioning department and approval by the Unit Head. Goods Receiving Notes are not prepared, instead,
goods are received on the Procurement Demand Slip after verification by the requisitioning department. The
procurement system will be streamlined once the Operations Manual is finalized.
Invoice Processing:
Once goods/services have been received and verified by the receiver, a Payment Voucher is prepared by the ME,
checked by the Head (F &A) and approved by the CE. Payments are made by crossed cheques. Only petty
purchases are made in cash.
Cash Receipts & Disbursements:
There are no cash receipts at the moment. Imprest of Rs. 10,000 is being maintained to meet day to day petty
expenses. The CE approves all cash payments.
Fixed Assets Recording:
Subsidiary record is being maintained which is reconciled with the control accounts in the General Ledger.
CurTently, fixed assets are not tagged for identification. This should be done for proper control and physical
verification.



Page 61
Recurrent Expenditure Analysis:
A Monthly Statement of Expenditure is prepared to compare actual and budgeted figures. This is reviewed by the
CE.
Financial Reporting
PPAF would submit quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) to the Bank within 45 days of the end of each
quarter. These PMRs would include data from partner organizations. Partner organizations will maintain separate
bank account and record for funds received from the PPAF and provide reports as per PPAF/Bank's
requirements.
Computerization
The accounting system is not computerized. However, the management has agreed to have the accounts
computerized in the next couple of months using some off-the-shelf accounting package.
Insurance
Of assets, only vehicles are insured. Similarly, there is no insurance cover for cash-on-hand/in-transit and fidelity
of the cashier handling cash. All assets should be insured against possible risks.
Employee Compensation & Payroll Processing
Payroll is not prepared, instead individual payments are processed by the F&A Department based on terms of
appointment and absentee report from the Administration Department. Salaries to officers are paid through
cheques. Lower staff are paid in cash. It has been suggested that payroll be prepared, reconciled with the previous
month and approved by the CE before payment.
Internal Audit
The management intends to set up an Internal Audit Department. However, till this is done, the internal audit will
be out-sourced to a reputable firm of chartered accountants. The internal audit would cover activities of PPAF as
well as its partner organizations.
ExternalAudit
Yearly audits of the PPAF and its partner organizations would be conducted by the same firm of chartered
accountants. PPAF's auditors would audit its partner organizations' books as part of the audit. PPAF would
submit to the Bank audited financial statements within six months of the close of each financial year. POs will
submit their audited financial statements to the PPAF within 5 months of the end of the fiscal year together with a
Project Receipts and Payments Account (Project Account) showing micro-credit and grant funds received from
the PPAF and transmitted to beneficiaries during the year and on a cumulative basis.
PPAF's audit for FY98 was conducted by a leading firm of chartered accountants. The audit report that they
submitted was unqualified.
Control Strengths & Weaknesses
Strengths
*  Once the Accounting Manual is finalized, there would be written procedures on financial management,
procurement and disbursement.
*  The Accounts Department maintains budget figures and ensures that expenditure under various heads does
not exceed budgetary limits. This is done on a monthly basis. It has been recommended to maintain a Budget
Control Register to exercise budgetary control on each transaction.
*  There would be three audits of the partner organizations and two of PPAF every year.
a). The Internal Audit Department would audit the accounts of PPAF as well as its partner organizations
b). PPAFs external auditors would cover the activities of its partner organizations in their audit and



Page 62
c). The partner organizations would be required to have their accounts audited by a leading firm of chartered
accounts each year.
Weaknesses and Additional Records/Controls Required
* Cheques are signed only by the CE. These should be signed jointly by the CE and another signatory to be
designated by the BOD.
*  The only ME is performing the functions of custody, detail accounting and general accounting. With the
induction of the other ME, this inadequacy in segregation of duties would be removed.
*  Fixed assets are not tagged for identification. This should be done for proper control and physical
verification.
*  No insurance cover is obtained for fixed assets (other than vehicles), cash on hand/in-transit and fidelity of
personnel handling cash. Insurance cover should be obtained since the project may be adversely affected in
case of loss/damage to assets since funds may not be available for replacement.
*  Head of the Finance & Accounts Departnent who is an SAS, MBA and FCMA is employed on contract
which expires in February. Either he should be employed on a longer contract or adequate replacement found.
*  Individual payments are processed in respect of salaries. Payroll should be prepared, reconciled with the
previous month and approved by the CE before payment.
Extent to Which the Existing Systems May be Used
The existing systems can be used effectively if the weak areas as mentioned above are strengthened, accounts
.computerized to meet Bank's financial reporting requirements and the accounting staff put in place.



Page 63
Annex 5.2
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Review of Financial Management Systems
National Rural Support Program (NRSP)
Financial management systems of NRSP (a PO), which is one of the leading NGOs, were reviewed. A brief
description of NRSP and its financial management systems is given below.
NRSP is registered under the Companies Ordinance in 1991. The Government of Pakistan has funded it through
an endowment fund of Rs.500 million. Programs are sustained from returns earned from this fund and grants and
loans from donor agencies. The Board of Directors includes development practitioners, financial experts, people
from private sector and three ex-officio representatives of the Federal Government. At present, NRSP's
operations extend over 24 districts through 46 field units.
The organizational set up of NRSP is shown below:
Staffing/Distribution of Work
Staffing and segregation of duties is adequate at the Head Office, Regions, Field Units and Community
Organizations.
Budget Preparation and Execution
Authority to approve NRSP annual budget lies with the Board of Directors (BOD). The budget is prepared with a
view to ensure that NRSP expenditures do not exceed its income and to see the relationship between operating
costs and programn inputs/outputs. It is not used strictly as a plan of action. Based on six monthly review
meetings, general trend of program and its requirements are noted and budget indicators developed. These
indicators are used by the Finance Section to develop a budget. The Finance Section coordinates with the
regional offices and sectoral heads for their needs. The Board allows the management to make changes within
the budget lines to increase program activities but does not allow increase in operating cost over the amount
budgeted unless specifically authorized. Funds received from projects and expenditure incur-red there-against do
not require Board approval.



Page 64
Regions and sectors are not communicated the amounts in the budget but guidelines are issued if there are any
changes in program from one year to another e.g. if NRSP receives funds for infrastructure, guidelines are issued
to regions to identify and recommend infrastructure schemes. In case of project funds for specific regions, total
budget may also be handed over to the region. Monitoring of expenditure is done every month individually by
regions but consolidated monitoring is done once in six months. Monitoring of project funds is done according to
the conditions of the project.
Delegation ofAuthority
Authority to incur expenditure is delegated to the Heads of Departments (HODs). However, being near the main
markets, only the Head Office is authorized to purchase computers, photocopiers, vehicles and similar equipment.
On specific request, these items, if available at the same cost, may be purchased by the regions. All personal
service contracts except for the auxiliary staff are signed by the General Manager (GM). Contracts for auxiliary
staff are signed by the Regional Program Officer (RPO).
Infrastructure projects are sanctioned by the GM only. Credit disbursement is sanctioned by the RPO. School
cases are also sanctioned by the RPO. Routine community training events are approved by the RPOs in
consultation with the Program Manager HRD.
Only the GM is authorized to sign contracts with donors with the approval of the BOD. Grant funds are generally
managed by the Head Office. However, if required by the projects, these can be managed at the regional level, for
example, grant funds received for Bahawalpur have been accounted for at Bahawalpur and have been deposited
into a bank account at Bahawalpur.
Initial grant of Rs.500 million received from the Government of Pakistan (GOP) has been managed by the Head
Office. Only the Head Office is authorized to invest these funds and manage its proceeds. Decision for
investment in a particular security is taken by the BOD/Executive Committee. These funds are required to be
placed in Government securities as NRSP has availed exemption of tax against such securities.
Interest on Government securities is managed by the Head Office and is distributed to the regions on an as and
when needed basis. Surplus interest income is kept in interest bearing deposit accounts.
Folllowing are the authorized signatories at the Head Office:
*  Group "A"
* General Manager
* Program Manager [other than PM(F&A)]
*  Group "B"
* Program Manager(F&A)
* Program Manager(Other than F&A)
Bank accounts are operated jointly by two signatories, one from group "A" and one from group "B".



Page 65
Flow of Funds
Releases to Regions
Operating Funds:
Releases to regions are made monthly on the basis of their projection for the month. Program Manager (F&A) is
authorized to approve such releases. Such releases are accounted for through "Regional Current Account" at
Head Office which is reconciled with the regions on a monthly basis with their "Head Office Current Account".
Credit Funds:
Funds for credit disbursement are currently provided through the line of credit from Habib Bank Ltd. (HBL).
Within the overall ceiling, a sub-ceiling has been established at each field unit. The regional offices are
authorized to withdraw funds from these credit lines (Running Finance Accounts). Therefore, the Head Office
only monitors withdrawals from such running finance accounts. However, in case of regions where a Running
Finance Account is not available, funds for credit disbursement are transferred by the Head Office from its
Running Finance Account.
Disbursements at Head Office
In accordance with the delegation of authority, the Finance Section processes payments. All payments exceeding
Rs.5,000 to outside agencies are required to be made through crossed cheques. However, in exceptional cases, if
justified, these may be made in cash or in open cheques. Salary payments to all regular staff are made through
bank transfers. Salary payments below Rs.5,000 to casual staff are made through cheques. Cash needs for training
and other events organized by NRSP professional staff are managed through the 'Advances to staff account. On
the basis of requests received from the Sectoral Heads, F&A makes advance payments through open cheques if
more than Rs.5,000. Upon completion of the training and other approved event, such advance accounts are
adjusted. Such adjustments do not include payments to suppliers for regular supplies. Payments for regular
supplies are made directly by the Finance Department on the basis of routine internal checking. However, in case
of special supplies, payments are made through the concerned staff.
All payments require checking by other than the Finance Department. For training, all invoices require
administrative approval of HRD. For POL, maintenance, building supplies and maintenance, insurance, rent,
office supplies, equipment etc, administrative approval of Administration is a pre-requisite.
Disbursement at Regional Office
Operational Accounts:
As in the case of the Head Office, most payments are made through crossed cheques or bank transfers. However,
payments to field units for their operation are made in cash and charged to the Field Unit Operational Advance
Account which is adjusted on a monthly basis. The following are authorized signatories at the regional level:
*  Group "A"
a General Manager
* Regional Program Officer
*  Group "B"
• Program Manager (F&A)
a Regional Accountant
Such bank accounts are operated jointly by two signatories one from Group "A" and one from Group "B". In
order to ensure continuity in operation, GM and PM(F&A) are also included in the list of signatories at the
regional level who can sign cheques in the absence of authorized regional officials.



Page 66
Credit Disbursement
Social Organizers (SOs) based in Field Units contact shopkeepers, teachers, etc. to identify poor. A general body
of the villagers is called where the SO conveys the message that they are there to help the villagers in identifying
and exploiting opportunities to improve their earning capacity. Groups, called communityorganizations (COs), of
20-25 households are formed and a President and a Manager are nominated by the group. The President is
responsible for facilitation whereas the Manager is responsible for book-keeping and logistics. The Manager
keeps a record of the following:
*  Attendance Register in respect of meetings
*  Minutes Book
*  Savings Register (for community contributions)
*  Credit Register (for loans - disbursement and recovery)
*  Pass Book (kept by the contributors)
The bank account is opened in the name of the CO which is operated jointly by the President and the Manager.
COs hold meetings on a fortnightly basis in which the SO is also present. Loans applications are recommended by
the CO and forwarded to the Field Unit in the form of a resolution and appraisal (by SO). The Field Unit forwards
the application to the region along with iqrarnama (promissory note), terms of partnership (between NRSP & the
CO) and the resolution. The resolution is a recommendation by the CO to the Field Unit to approve loans to
individuals who are members of that CO.
Credit cases are recommended by the Field Unit incharge to the Regional Office. Only the RPO is authorized to
sanction such cases. The Regional Professional (RCED) is authorized to make cheques in the name of COs
against sanctioned cases. These cheques are required to be signed by the two signatories as mentioned above. A
separate Running Finance Account is maintained at each field unit but all cheque books are retained at the
Regional Office. Separate cheques are issued for each field unit. The Regional Accountant is responsible for
signing the cheques and entering them into Control Accounts. A Control Account is maintained at the regional
office for each Field Unit.
Memorandum CO wise/Loanee wise records are maintained at the Field Unit which are reconciled by the
RP(RCED) on a monthly basis with the Control Account at Regional Office in collaboration with the Regional
Accountant. The Accounts Assistant at each field unit is responsible for making entries into loanees' ledgers. The
Running Finance Accounts are reconciled by the RP(RCED) and Regional Accountant with the banks on a
monthly basis and a copy is sent to head office for review.
Recoveries
Only Head Office is authorized to print official receipts and issue them to the regions according to their needs.
The Head Office RCED section is responsible for keeping record of official receipts. Official Receipt Books
issued to Regions are distributed to the Field Units by Regional Offices on the basis of their needs. Regional
Offices maintain records of such issues. Each NRSP SO is authorized to retain an official receipt book. Upon
recovery from the COs, the SO is responsible to issue the first copy of the receipt to the CO/borrower. The
Accounts Assistant at the Field Unit is responsible for collecting cash from the SOs against receipts issued by the
SOs to the COs. The Accounts Assistant is also authorized to collect recoveries direct from the COs/loanees and
to issue receipts. All recoveries are required to be deposited on a daily basis. However, in exceptional
circumstances this requirement may be waived ifjustified.
The Accounts Assistant at the Field Unit is responsible for depositing the amounts received on a daily basis and
for entering the receipts into the memorandum ledgers. A daily Cash Report is also prepared by the Accounts
Assistant to reconcile recoveries and cash on hand. He is also responsible for sending a copy of all the receipts
along with a summary called Recovery Sheet and the Daily Cash Report to the Regional Office. The RP (RCED)



Page 67
at the region is responsible for checking receipts with the Recovery Sheet. The Regional Accountant is
responsible for making entries into the 'Control Accounts' from such receipts and recovery sheets. The Recovery
Sheet along with the receipts are required to be sent to the Regional Office on a daily basis or as frequent as
possible.
The Regional Professional is responsible for reconciling the Recovery Sheets with the Monthly Progress Reports
prepared by the Field Unit Account Assistants.
Cash management at the Regional Office
The regional offices receive funds for operation from the Head Office. Since these funds are used for daily
operation, they are kept in current accounts. Unspent funds if not required within thirty days are sent to the Head
Office.
The Regional Office is responsible for monitoring cash received from the COs/borrowers on account of credit.
Each Field Unit has been provided with a safe and is required to deposit cash on a daily basis or as frequent as
justified. All recoveries are deposited into the Running Finance Account so as to keep the overdraft balance at a
minimum. At regions where credit recoveries are seasonal, e.g. Vehari, NRSP has made arrangements with the
banks to open a special counter for taking NRSP deposits.
Financial Reporting
From Field Units to Regions
Operational Accounts:
Field Units are provided an imprest account which is replenished on a monthly basis upon submission of detailed
expenditure statements approved by the RPO. The Field Units maintain a journal to record payments made by
them. A copy of such a journal is used for replenishment from the regional office.
Credit Records:
Each Field Unit is responsible for preparing a Monthly Progress Report (MPR) which lists each loan and its status
as of the end of the month. This report is sent by the field unit along with a copy of the Daily Cash Report as of
the end of the month. During the month, copies of the receipts issued by the Field Unit along with the Recovery
Sheet are also sent by the Field Unit to the Regional Office. A bank statement is also obtained by the Field Unit
from the concerned bank which is sent to the Regional Office for preparing a bank reconciliation statement.
The Regional Professional (RCED) and the Regional Accountant are jointly responsible for reconciling the MPR,
the Daily Cash Report and Recovery Sheets with the Control Accounts maintained by the Regional Accountant.
In case of differences, if any, the Accounts Assistants and the SOs are required to work with the RP(RCED). The
SO in-charge is responsible for all financial transactions at the field unit with technical support from the Accounts
Assistant.
The SO in-charge is responsible for issuing Exception Reports showing default cases and the proposed steps to
the RPO. The RPO is responsible for ensuring that such reporting is in place.
From Regional Office to Head Office
Operating Accounts:
Regional Offices are responsible for sending monthly Trial Balances to the Head Office for consolidation and
review. The Board has approved to have independent audit of each region. Thus, a Balance Sheet and Income
and Expenditure Statement will be prepared by each region annually on the pattern of the statutory accounts.
These statements will be audited by chartered accountants. The expenditure pattern is also reviewed in the six
monthly meetings at head office. Head Office can consolidate accounts on a monthly basis if required from the
Trial Balances.



Page 68
Credit Operation:
The Head Office receives a copy of (a) MPR (b) bank reconciliation statement along with the bank statement and
(c) daily cash report. The Head Office uses these statements for consolidating different reports which are
reviiewed by the management.
Reporting at Head Office
Program Operations:
A consolidated income and expenditure statement showing budget/actual variances is prepared on a six monthly
basis. In addition, ad hoc reports may also be prepared when required from the trial balances received from the
regional offices. Special reports are also prepared and reviewed to meet donor requirements.
Credit Operation:
Reports showing credit disbursement, recoveries, dues/over dues are prepared on a monthly basis. Overdues are
also aged.
Accounting System
Overview
Double entry system of accounting is in place at the Head Office and Regional Offices which are independent
accounting units and their accounts are computerised. Transactions on behalf of each other are routed through
Current Accounts. Transactions, except for credit disbursement are recorded on an accrual basis. NRSP follows
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). For all transactions, administrative approval of other than
Finance Section is required before the Finance makes any payment.
NRSP has developed two soft-wares, one for its program operations and other for credit disbursement. The
software for program operation is named as Financial Information System (FIS) while the software for credit
operation is named as the Management Information System (MIS). The FIS provides necessary information for
developing Income and Expenditure Account and the Balance Sheet. Regions and the Head Office use
independent account codes but uniform heads of accounts. Accounts of regions are not incorporated into the
accounting system at the Head Office, rather they are consolidated. Consolidation is done through Lotus
worksheets. Basic financial reports may be generated using abstracts from the system. However, the system is
not capable of generating analytical reports and needs further refinement. The following reports/ledgers are
currently being generated by the system:
a) Summary Trial Balance (showing for the period and cumulative) of control accounts
b) Detailed Trial Balance showing subsidiary accounts
c) General Ledger Accounts/Cash Book etc
d) Transaction listing
The FIS contains control and subsidiary financial accounts. Only advances to staff and suppliers and some other
memorandum accounts are included in the FIS. Other memorandum accounts such as store, fixed assets etc are
maintained independent of the FIS. Subsidiary accounts are reconciled with the control accounts on a monthly
basis.
The MIS is primarily used to maintain borrowers ledger. However, it is also able to generate various reports for
various analysis. This is independent of the FIS and does not contain information other than that pertaining to
credit disbursement and recoveries. This arrangement has been made with a view to provide prompt information
on loans. Thus each Field Unit can generate its reports independently, such as MPR, Report of Dues/Over dues
etc. The MIS is able to generate a number of reports to monitor disbursement and recoveries. The following
manuals have been prepared:



Page 69
* Accounting & Administration Manual
* Credit Operational Manual
* Physical Infrastructure & Technology Development
*  Service Rules
Accounting Policies
*  Fixed Assets: Major repairs are capitalized but normal repairs and maintenance are charged to income.
Decision regarding capitalization is taken item wise considering the useful life of the item.
* Depreciation is charged on straight line basis. Full year's depreciation is charged to the income of the year in
which assets are purchased while depreciation is not charged in the year in which the assets are disposed of.
*  Cost of infrastructure schemes is recorded in the year they are approved, using the accrual method.
*  Loan disbursement to COs from NRSP's own interest income is recorded as a receivable in the year of
disbursement.
*  Loan disbursement from grant funds is recorded in the year of disbursement as a receivable with a
corresponding Credit to Pool Account.
*  Provision for doubtful debts is made at the rate of 3% annually.
*  Service charge is recorded on an actual 'receipt' basis.
Procurement Procedures
Most of the capital items are procured at the Head Office. A Purchase Committee comprising one official from
Administration, one from Finance and one from other sections is responsible for ensuring economy in cost and
quality. For all recurring items, like stationery, Administration is responsible for getting a minimum of three
quotations on a quarterly basis. Based on these quotations received, the items are approved by the Purchase
Committee. For other items, quotations are invited as and when the need arises.
Procurement of recurring items is done on the basis of quarterly projections prepared by Administration using
past records. Procurement of other items is done on the basis of a requisition duly cleared by the Finance
Department and approyed by the GM. A similar procedure is adopted at the region except that the requisition is
approved by RPO. Unusual items require approval of the Program Planning Committee (PPC).
Fixed asset items are recorded by the Finance Department in fixed assets control accounts with memorandum
itemized ledgers. A Receiving Certificate is obtained on the invoice from administration as well as the end users.
Stationery items are charged off as expenditure at the time of purchase. However, memorandum registers are
kept to control movement.
Employee Compensation
Terms and Conditions
Employees are compensated in accordance with the terms of their agreement. Regular employees are governed
by the NRSP Employees' Service Rules. Terms and conditions of consultants and other ad-hoc employees are
determined through negotiation. Regular employees are entitled to the following:
a)  Monthly salary
b)  Contribution by NRSP to Contributory Provident Fund Trust at 10% of basic salary
c)  Severance pay: one pay for each year of service completed calculated at the salary rate on the date of
termination.
d)  Leave encashment at the end of service: not to exceed 60 work days.
e)  Group medical scheme
f)  Group life insurance scheme



Page 70
Salary amount is segregated into basic salary and allowances for the purposes of tax using ratio of allowable
allowances. This basic pay is used to calculated provident fund contribution.
Increments
Increments are approved by the Board as part of the budget. However, within the budget, the GM is authorized to
award increments at different rates to different categories of employees. However, before awarding an increment,
a Performance Evaluation Report (PER) of each employee is prepared by the concerned line manager which is
used to determine the increment rate of the employee. The GM reviews each PER and has a right to agree or
disagree with the concerned line manager.
Different rates of increments are used for different performance levels. Each employee's performance is required
to be determined in any of the following four categories:
* Below Average
*  Satisfactory (Average)
*  Superior(More than satisfactory)
*  Outstanding
Employees falling in the first category are not awarded increments.
Pay Scales
NRSP has pay scales in respect of regular employees. However, deviations are allowed to facilitate appointment
of competent and committed staff, the GM is authorized to fix salary commensurate with the education,
experience and demonstrated commitment of the employee whose salary is to be fixed.
Promotions
Promotions are generally considered as part of the exercise for annual increments. Based on requests received
from the Regional Offices and Sectoral Heads, cases are reviewed in the PPM. Generally performance and
responsibility are the criteria for promotion rather than seniority. All promotions require approval of the GM.
Promotions to management categories require approval of the Executive Committee of the Board.
Payment of Salaries
A Personnel Section at the Head Office issues office orders for appointments, increments, promotions etc. Based
on these orders, the Finance Section prepares payroll which is approved by the GM at the Head Office and by the
RPO in the Regions. A computer software is used to prepare the payroll and salary transfer advice. The Personnel
Section keeps the Finance Section informed of all personnel actions to update the payroll records. The
Administration Department issues a list of employees on leave which is also used to verify payroll. Most
payments are made through bank transfers.
Insurance
Fixed assets are insured against possible risks. Fidelity insurance has also been obtained. Proposals for cash in
transit and other insurance schemes are in process.
InternalAudit
A retired Government auditor has been appointed as the Internal Auditor who is responsible for spot checks. He
visits each region and is authorized to do physical checking. He also carries out special assignments as requested.
He issues reports of weaknesses which are reviewed by the Program Manager (F&A) and weaknesses reported
are discussed and resolved with the concerned section/region.



Page 71
In view of the expanding program needs, the Board has also approved an annual audit of each region by the
Company Auditors. This would help build the managerial capacity of the regions. TORs of the proposed audit
include reporting on internal control systems at the regions.
ExternalAudit
Audit for FY 98 has been completed by a leading firm of chartered accountants who have given an unqualified
opinion on the financial statements.
Control Strengths& Weaknesses
Strengths
* Adequate staffing and segregation of duties
* Strong monitoring system
* Operational Manuals in place
Weaknesses
* Internal audit department not adequately staffed



Page 72
Annex 5.3
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Assessment of Project for PMR-Based Disbursements - FMS
Project Title: Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Project ID: PK-PE-49791
Ineligible for PMR-Based Disbursements
Part I - Financial Management System:
I have reviewed the financial management system relating to this project. The objective of the review was to
determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial management system as required by the
Bank/IDA under OP/BP 10.02.
My review, which included visits to the project implementing agency, was based on the Bank's guidelines for
"Review of Financial Management System", and focused on the assessment of the project's accounting system,
intemnal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system, selection of an auditor as well as the format
and contents of the Project Management Report (PMR) to be submitted by the borrower in support of Withdrawal
Applications.
I confirm that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. However, in my
opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate project financial management system that can provide,
with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project (PMR) required by the
Bank/IDA.
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with an agreed action plan
by the borrower to remedy the situation.
Signed by:
Financial Management Specialist           Hasan Sagib, SARFM               01/14/99
Name, Dept./Div.                Date



Page 73
Annex 5.3
Attachment
Inadequacies in the Financial Management System
Staffing
One person is performing the functions of custody, detail accounting and general accounting. Vacant position of
the other assistant should be filled so that duties may be segregated adequately.
Finance & Accounting Manual
Finance & Accounting Manual is under preparation. It will have to be reviewed by the Bank staff to see if
financial management is adequately covered.
Chart Of Accounts
The present chart of accounts will not be able to cope with the reporting requirements. An expanded chart of
accounts will have to be developed.
Actions To Be Taken
1. Head of the Finance & Accounts Department should be hired on a longer contract or adequate replacement
found.
Current Status: Long-term contract has been signed with present encumbent.
2. Vacant position of Accounts Assistant should be filled for proper segregation of duties.
Current Status: Position has been filled.
3. Finance & Accounting Manual and Chart of Accounts should be in place.
Current Status: Proposal received from Financial Management (FM) firm to draft manual and prepare new
chart of accounts. Expected to be completed by September, 1999.



Page 74
Annex 5.4
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
PMR Fornats for FMS
5.4.1  Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds
5.4.2  Project Balance Sheet
5.4.3  Cash Withdrawal
5.4.4  Cash Forecast
5.4.5  Special Account Statement
5.4.6  Output Monitoring Report
5.4.7  Quarterly Progress Report - Beneficiary Information
5.4.8  Quarterly Progress Report - Micro-Credit/ Micro-Enterprises
5.4.9  Quarterly Progress Report - Physical Community Infrastructure
5.4.]10 Quarterly Progress Report - Capacity Building
5.4.11 Statement of Receipts, Loan Disbursements & Recoveries



Page 75
Annex 5.4.1
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds
Ges'emesnit ot5F tdd*O
P-re.ty AlDeitobt  Food Project
- f
ha UdeU,
Aetturd                                           Pi..ed                                                  Varatnce
Cumnat           Year-To          C ...tlttive        Cmrent            Year-To           C-aoolti.e         Cum,nt            Yeatr-Te         C-muloste
Qso.ter            Date            To-Date            Quarter            Dote              To-Dote           Qojrtes            Daot              To-Date
Project Fiaoeingd
Gov-t,mt Foond
IBDR Fuods
Other
Tohtl laocinlg(A)                                                                  --                                      _                 _                    _ 
Project Kop-ditutm:
Eqfipstot
Cvil Wost
Ceosuhams Services and Tsming
Other I/
Totl Ei:vditureSlB)                                                                                                        _                                      _
The Ahoet summorh eape.o inoumd duoing the period, od their souosee of fhsooehsg, eve- theugh they here *ot yt beets paid at the repoerdg date
The bah ce    heet (R p rt I-C)   sfet e oth    ot6    d, e s  groa  the  prjecs   fisscik o ( ook, g o -er eat, cafino-lers)    od o tut stwtuoig  p oy bh v erod.
NMt.
I/ This may be sb-divided imto sever htadings in accnmce with the disbanursct hetdings i th tgal doocnta.



Page 76
Annex 5.4.2
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Project Balance Sheet
Government of Pakistan
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
As at
in US dollars
ASSETS
Cash
Project Bank Account
IBRD Special Account (from Report 1-F)
Cumulative Project Expenditures (Report I-A) 1/
Total Assets
LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable
Advances
IBRD Special Account
Government Advances
Total Liabilities
FUNDS
Project Financing (from Report I-A)
Total Liabilities & Funds
Note 1/ Project fixed assests (used for managing the project such as PIU's cars and
office equipment) may be shown separately. Recommend that these assets are not
depreciated, but that a record be kept of them for purposes of accountability.



Page 77
Annex 5.4.3
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Cash Withdrawal
Government of Pakistan
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Iu US doUars
Actual Current Ouarter(7 /98-9/30/98)
(a.)             (b-)                (c.)               (d-)
Disbursement     Eligible %       Project         Adjustments          Project         IBRD Eligible
Category                     Expenditures           for           Expenditures       Expenditures
Accrued Expenses     Paid during        Paid during
1/              Quarter            Quarter
Equipment
Foreign
Local(ex-factory)
Local(other)
Civil Works
Foreign
Local
Consultants' Services
Foreign
Local
Other
Foreign
Local             _   _   __                                           _    _   _
Total                                                              _
Actual Eligible Cash Expenditure during the Quarter                                                      - 2/
Less:Amount payable from S/A to Project (From Report l-F)
Amount paid via Direct Payment
Balance Payable by Bank for Current Expenditures                                                        0 3/
Add: Replenishment Required to S/A balance (From Report I-E)
IBRD Disbursement Required                                                               _,,_ __-
Note 1/             Column (b.) represents net adjustments made to remove accrued project expenditures, as only paid expenditur
are eligible for Bank financing.
Note 2/             This model shows the amount payable by the Bank during the Quarter ($1,406,250)
including the amount paid via direct payment ($300,000)
taking into consideration the categories relating to "Amount paid by direct Payment (300,000)"
Note 3/             Where the project is prefinanced by the Borrower and does not therefore maintain a Special Account,
this line will show the amount to be reimbursed.



Page 78
Annex 5.4.4
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Cash Forest
Government of Pakistan
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
For the quarter ending
in US dollars
Cash Requirement Forecast for the next 2 quarters
(a.)                (b.)                 (c.)                 (e)
Disbursement          Eligible %       Cash Requirement    Cash Requirement  Total                      IBRD Eligible
Category                                    for                  for           Cash Requirement    Cash Requirement
the next Ist        the next 2nd             for                  for
Quarter             Quarter       the next 2 Quarters    the next 2 Quarters
_______________   __________________   (10/1198-12/31/98)     (1(1199-3931/99)    (IO/1198-3/31/99)    (1011198-3J31199)
Equipment
Foreign                            80
Local(ex-factory)                  80
Local(other)                       75
Civil Works
Foreign                            SO
Local                              80
Consultants' Services
Foreign                            70
Local                              60
Other
Foreign                            70
Local                              65
Total_                _                                         _    _  _   _  _
Total Bank Eligible Financing for the next 2 quarters
LESS:
S/A Balance as of the end of reporting quarter before adjustments (From Report I-F)
Amount expected to be paid through Direct Payment
Replenishment required to S/A Balance (To Report D)



Page 79
Annex 5.4.5
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Special Account Statement
Government of Pakistan
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
As of
in US dollars
Balance brought forward from previous period
(excluding Adjustment items)
Transfer of previous balance before LACI 1/
(if applicable)
World Bank replenishment received during the current reporting period,
relating to the FMR for the previous period (Apr-Jun 1998)
Subtotal
Add: Payment in current quarter relating to previous period 2/
Deduct:
Amount payable for eligible expenditures
incurred during the current quarter (To Report l-D)
Less: paid in subsequent period 2/                             __-
Total before recovery and adjustments
Deduct:
Amount recovered by World Bank (if applicable) 3/
Adjustments 3/
Closing Balance
ReloneHiaiition With Wilr BRank (at Year -End
Balance, as per above Closing Balance above
World Bank Replenishments in Transit
Balance per World Bank Statement of -------, l9xx
Notes:
1/     Applicable for converted projects that have pre LACI Special Account balance
2/     Amountpaid after the reporting date (September 30, 1998) would be adjusted in the
next period as "payment in current quarter relating to previous period." This should
only occur where project expenditures are not all paid directly through the Special
Account.
3/     Recovery process normally begins towards the end of the project
4/     Interest and bank charges (where applicable) belongs to the Borrower and should be adjusted abov



Page 80
Annex 5.4.6
Poverty ADeviation Fund Project
Output Monitoring Report
Sanple using Unit Variamce as monitoring indicator
Government of Pakistan
Poverty Aleviation Fund Project
For The Quarter
in USI dotaos
Adt_al tI                                          Pl nmd                                     V                                        PAriane
Project Activities                           Units           Unit         Cumulative           Units          Unit       Cnsulative         Cumulative         Cumulative           Project
Cost           To-Date                           Cost         To-Date             To-Date           To-Date             Units
__ _     (_ (Unit )          (Cort)
1. Comonunity Infratructure
a. PO I - fresh schemes
b. PO 2 - fresh schemes
2. Micro-credit
a. Fresh lows to disadvasaged rural commuiaes
Women
Men
b. To disadvantaged urban communities
Women
Men
3. Capadty Building
a. Training - Comunities
b. Training - POs
c. Training - PPAF
d Improving managemest systems - POs
Imp  in mamngeenta stems - PPAF                             I
1. This form may be modified to reflect monitoring needs of the outputs of the project.
2. In the Accrual accounting model, the Unit Cost should also be on accrual basis.
3. All variances-within the parameters agreed at project appraisal-should be explained for reason and impact, etc.



Page 81
Annex 5.4.7
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Quarterly Progress Report - Beneficiary Information
Activities               Targets          Targets                 Achievements               Variance        Reasons/Bottlenecks
1999 to 2002        1999                       1999                 Over/Under       (Attach separate sheet)
1st Qtr. 2nd Qtr. 3rd Qtr. 4th Qtr.
Social Organization.
No of CBOs formned_
-go -ofW0-sforrned
Households Covered
Total CBOs
Existing CBOs
New CBOs                                                                                             _
Total CBOs
Existing WOs
New WOs
CBOs Reactivated.
No. of CBOs
No. of Wos
CBOs Capital Building
No. of CBOs using PPAF credit
Credit Amount
No. of WOs using PPAF credit
Credit Amount
CBOs Savings
WOs Savings
CBOs Linkages With:
Government Departments                                                                       _       ._.
Other Agencies                                  .



Page 82
Annex 5.4.8
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Quarterly Progress Report - Micro-Credit/ Micro-Enterprises
Activities                  Targets         Targets               Achievements                 Variance          Reasons/Bottlenecks
1999 to 2002       1999                     1999                   Over/Under        (Attach separate sheet)
L_________ Ist Qtr. 2nd Qtr. 3rd Qtr. 4th Qtr.
Micro-Credit/ Micro-Enterprises
PPAF disbursement
No. of entrepreneurs selected                                           _
No. of enterprises benefited
Credit Amount
Micro-Enterprise Development
Support to Existing Enterprises                           ___
No. of enterprises provided with
PPAF credit
Male
Female                                                            .____
Support to New Enterprises
No. of enterprises started with
PPAF credit
Male
Female
Appropriate Micro-Tech. Dev.           ______    ____    ______    _____
No. of male enterprises adopting                      .                                                              _
new Micro-Tech.
No. of female enterprises adopting
new Micro-Tech.
SelfEmployed Entrepreneurs
No. of male enterprises provided
credit
Credit Amount
No. of female enterprises provided
credit Amount
Credit  A m ount__                                         _ _ _  _  _ _ _    __ _  _   __  _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _ _   __  _ _  _ _ _   _ _  _ _ _  _



Page 83
Annex 5.4.9
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Quarterly Progress Report - Physical Community Infrastructure
Activities                Targets         Targets               Achievements                Variance         Reasons/Bottlenecks
1999 to 2002       1999                     1999                  Over/Under       (Attach separate sheet)
1st Qtr. 2nd Qtr. 3rd Qtr. 4th Qtr.
Community Physical Infrastructure
(loan + grant)
PPAF disbursement total:
a) Amount of loan
b) Amount of grant                                                   _
Disbursement by POs
a) Amount of loan
b) Amount of grant
No. of projects initiated
No. of projects completed                                                                _
No. of villages covered                            _
Amount of community contribution
% of projects effectively
maintained by CBOs
No. of households benefited



Page 84
Annex 5.4.10
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Quarterly Progress Report - Capacity Building
Activities                Targets         Targets               Achievements                Variance         Reasons/Bottlenecks
1999 to 2002       1999                     1999                  Over/Under       (Attach separate sheet)
1st Qtr. 2nd Qtr. 3rd Qtr. 4th Qtr.
Capacity Building (grant)
PPAF Disbursement
Grant Disbursed by POs
Community Contribution                                      _
CBO Management
No. of Managers Participated
Male
Female
No. of Managers Trained                                           =_=_=                         -
Male                                                             ____
Female
Specialist Training
No. Trained
Vocational Training
No. Trained
Staff Training
No. Participated
CBOs Participatory Approach                                                                                      _
Training
Refresher Courses - No./Type
Workshops - No./Type
Gender Training                                                                             F
Female Training
Training of Entrepreneurs



Page 85
Annex 5.4.11
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Statement of Receipts, Loan Disbursements & Recoveries for the Quarter
Partner Organization 1
Statement of Receipts, Loan Disbursements & Recoveries
For The Quarter
Quarter I  Quarter II Quarter III Quarter IV    Total
Amount received from PPAF in r/o:
Loans to disadvantaged rural communities
Loans to disadvantaged urban com munities
Amount disbursed to:
Disadvantaged rural communities
Disadvantaged urban communities
Amount repaid by   t
Disadvantaged rural conununities
Disadvantaged urban cornmunities_
Amount repaid by PO to PPAF



Page 86
Annex 6
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending June 30
(US$ million)
Implementation Period
2000        2001        2002        2003        2004
Project Costs
Annual                                          9           9           14          23          35
Cumulative                                      9          18          32           55          90
Local              Foreign              Total
Financing Sources (% of total project costs)
IDA                                                86                   4                   90
(80%)               (4%)                (84%)
Government                                          10                                      10
(9%)                                    (9%)
Beneficiaries                                       7                                        7
(7%)                                    (7%)
Total                                           103                  4                   107
(96%)               (4%)                (100%)
Cumulative Disbursements |
100
90-
o°    70  4  #          A.0:;i:  a    A:X    
70          :Total
60 :Micro-Credit
UM 40                                                                    l 8 0 777 i :: Ef t 3 ;  Infrastructure
30 4                               :Capacity Building of POs
20-
10 * f        -i                       C-                        - Capacity Building of PPAF
10
FY 00      FY 01       FY 02      FY 04       FY 05
Year



Page 87
Annex 6.1
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement Procurement arrangements (Table A)
The procurement arrangements for goods and services would be undertaken in accordance with
standard World Bank Procedures as follows 1:
Small - Scale Community Infrastructure These will be small community implemented schemes and
shall be less than $10,000 per scheme. Labor and materials will be provided by community at market rate
and in most cases will form part of their contribution towards the capital costs. Materials like cement,
bricks etc. will also be procured by the communities using local shopping. POs will ensure that rates for
labor and materials charged by the community are at prevailing market rates.
Goods and Equipment These are expected to cost about $1.72 million, spread over five years. Very few
contracts are expected to exceed $100,000, and most contracts will range from $5,000-$20,000. These
include items such as office furniture, vehicles, motorcycles, personal computers and training equipment
in small quantities, which would not attract the interests of foreign suppliers, and, therefore, would be
procured on the basis of prudent shopping (at least three priced quotations). All contracts over$50,000
will be procured through national competitive bidding, using bidding documents and procedure
satisfactory to IDA.
Civil Works The estimated cost of the civil works for Head Office building, and four regional offices is
$2.0 million. These contracts would be awarded through national competitive bidding (NCB), using bid
documents and procedures satisfactory to IDA.
Consultancies The estimated costs of consultant contracts and training study/tours is about $2 million.
Consultancies would be procured in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
For MIS and Impact Evaluation consultancies, QCBS procedures would be followed. For training,
NGO's/Consultants will be hired using Qualification based method (par. 3.7) or with the prior agreement
of the Bank, sole-source selection (par. 3.8 - 3.9)
Credit The final borrower's use of loans will be determined by the borrower in consultation with the PO
providing these loans. PO's procedures, high interest rates on loans, stringent repayment requirements
and borrower's self-interest will ensure that the procurement is economic and efficient. Most loans will
be used for micro-enterprises. Goods and services purchased with loan proceeds will have close to 100%
local content. Through its own supervision and strengtiening of field level financial accountability
arrangements, PPAF would ensure that the micro-credit loans are used productively.
Prior Review Prior review thresholds (Table B): Each individual contract over $100,000 (for goods
and equipment and civil works) would be subject to IDA's prior review. About 50% of the total estimated
goods procurement would be subject to IDA's review. Consultant assignments exceeding $100,000 (for
firms) and $50,000 (for individuals) would be subject to prior review. Post review would be undertaken
of the remainder.
'Funds will be disbursed against receipts.



Page 88
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds, including differentfinancingfor the different categories of
expenditures (Table C)
1.    The Borrower (Government of Pakistan) will on-lend IDA funds to the Pakistan Poverty
Alleviation Fund (PPAF), which is the project implementation agency for this project. The Pakistan
Poverty Alleviation Fund (PPAF) will on-lend funds to its Partner Organizations (POs), which will be
selected from the Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) who have applied to become the POs for
micro credit, infrastructure and capacity building. The funds for micro-credit would be provided as loans
on interest whereas the funds for infrastructure and capacity building would be provided on grant basis.
The project funds are expected to be disbursed in a period of five years after signing of the DCA.
2.    US Dollars Special Account: The PPAF will open a US$ Dollar Special Account (SA) with the
National Bank of Pakistan, Islamabad, after obtaining necessary approvals from the Government of
Pakistan and the State Bank of Pakistan. The IDA has allocated US$5.0 million as Initial Deposit into this
Special Account. The PPAF is expected to claim replenishments into the Special Account on monthly
basis, or when the expenditure from the SA equals 20% or more of the amount of the outstanding balance
in the Special Account (whichever is earlier).
3.    The Special Account would be used to finance all expenditures eligible for financing from the
IDA Credit; and would not be used to finance ineligible expenditures (such as duties and taxes, land
acquisition, refinancing of existing liabilities of POs etc.).
4.    Statement of Expenditures (SOEs): The IDA would disburse against certified SOEs for all
small community implemented schemes, micro-credit, and for all contracts for goods and equipment for
less than US$ 100,000. First release of funds to each PO would be based on the agreement between the
PPAF and the PO after proper needs assessment and signing of contracts (first ten contracts to be cleared
by IDA), but later releases would be based on provision of evidence of expenditures by POs by providing
certified SOEs on a periodic basis. Documentary evidence of all SOEs and PMRs supporting
disbursements by the PPAF will be maintained by the PPAF in order to support withdrawal applications
to IDA for audit purposes.
5.    Full supporting documentation will be required for all consultants contracts.
6.    Disbursements Under LACI: Once the Bank is satisfied that the data in the Project
Management Reports can be relied upon, the disbursements could be made under LACI.
7.    Counterpart Funds: The Government of Pakistan (GOP) would provide a total amount of
US$10.0 million as counterpart funds. In addition, the local communities are expected to contribute
US$7.0 million towards capital cost of building infrastructure. The GOP would provide US$2.0 million
before Board presentation and the remainder amount over the next two years.



Page 89
Annex 6
Table A
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                        Procurement Method             Total Cost
ICB      NCB      Other    N.B.F
1. Community Infrastructure
Civil works for small-scale                         28.0       7.0         35.0
schemes                                            (28.0)       (0)       (28.0)
2. Goods
Vehicles and equipment for PPAF             0.7      0.6                    1.3
(0.7)    (0.6)                 (1.3)
Equipment for POs                                    0.4                    0.4
(0.4)                 (0.4)
3. Civil Works                                 1.0       1.0                   2.0
Civil Works for Offices                    (1.0)    (1.0)                  (2.0)
4. Services                                              2.0                   2.0
(For details see Table Al)                          (2.0)                  (2.0)
5. Miscellaneous
Micro-credit                                        45.0                   45.0
(45.0)                (45.0)
PPAF & POs' Institutional Costs                     11.3      10.0         21.3
(11.3)      (0)       (11.3)
Total              1.7     88.3     17.0        107.0
(1.7)   (88.3)      (0)       (90.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA credit



Page 90
Annex 6.1
Table Al
Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services                    Selection Method                      Total Cost
Expenditure Category                                                          (including
contingencies)
QCBS   QBS    SFB    LCS    CQ    Other  N.B.F. |
A. Firms              1.0                             0.5    0.3                 1.8
B. Individuals                                               0.2                 0.2
Total   1.0                            0.5    0.5                  2.0
QC]3S:        Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS:          Quality-based Selection
SFEB:         Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS:          Least-Cost Selection
CQ:           Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other:        Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F.:       Not Bank-financed.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by IDA credit



Page 91
Annex 6.1
Table B
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category          Contract Value      Procurement Method    Contracts Subject to
(Threshold)                                Prior Review/
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US$ thousands                                US$ millions
1. Community Infrastructure       10,000         Local Shopping                None
2. Goods, Equipment &            100,000         Local Shopping & NCB           1.7
Civil Works
3. Services                Firms over 100,000,    Bank Guidelines               1.5
Individuals over 50,000
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$3.2 million



Page 92
Annex 6.1
Table C
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in              Financing Percentage
US$ million
1. Micro-Credit Loans                   45.0     100% of amount disbursed by PPAF
2. Community Infrastructure             28.0      100% of amount disbursed by PPAF
3. Civil Works for PPAF                  2.0      90%
4. Equipment and Vehicles for PPAF       1.3      100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
70% of local expenditure for other items
procured locally
5. Equipment for POs                     0.4      100% of amounts disbursed by PPAF to
finance:
100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
70% of local expenditure for other items
procured locally
6. Consultants' Services for PPAF        2.0      100%
7. Training for PPAF and POs             0.3      100%
8. Incremental Operating Costs:
a) PPAF                               1.0      Upto 85% in FY 2000;
Upto 40% in FY 2001;
Upto 15% in FY 2002;
Upto 10% in FY 2003; and
0% in FY 2004
b) POs                                9.0     100% of the amount disbursed by PPAF to
finance:
Upto 90% of the costs of each PO in the first
year of the PO's operations;
Upto 65% of such costs in the second year of
such operations; and
Upto 30% of such costs in the third year of
such operations
Total     90.0



Page 93
Annex 6.2
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Assessment of Project for PMR-Based Disbursements - Procurement
Project Title: Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Project ID: PK-PE-49791
Ineligible for PMR-Based Disbursements
Part II - Procurement/Contract Management System:
I have reviewed the institutional capacity of the implementing agency, the Pakistan Poverty Alleviation
Fund, and confirm on the basis of my review that the project has the capacity to carry out procurement in
investment projects following the Bank's guidelines.
My review, which included visits to the implementing, was based on (i) almost all of the procurement is of
very small value less than US$ 10,000 per contract involving simple procurement procedures, and less than US$
4 million are allocated to National Competitive Bidding and hiring of consultants being carried out by the
implementing agency, (ii) proposed assigning of responsibility for procurement and contract management to the
Head of Finance and Accounts who has received training in the procurement procedures of the Bank, and (iii)
proposed formal training of implementing agency staff in the Bank's procurement procedures.
However, in my opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate procurement/contract management
system that can provide the appropriate data on major procurement and contract management (PMR - Section 3)
as required by the Bank/IDA.
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with an agreed action
plan by the borrower to remedy the situation.
Signed by:
Procurement Specialist     Naseer A. Rana, SARPS                    04/15/99
Name, Dept./Div.                       Date



Page 94
Annex 6.2
Attachment
Inadequacies in the Current Procurement/Contract Management System
and
Agreed Actions for Rectification
INADEQUACIES                              AGREED ACTIONS
Absence of computerized Procurement/ Contract The PPAF will develop and maintain a computerized system
Management System.                        for procurement/contract management, as part of the Project
Accounting and Management Information System. This
system, which is required to be operational by project
effectiveness, will capture and monitor the data for all
procurement of goods, works and consultants services, and
will also include end-use checks. The PPAF will compile
and prepare consolidated Project Monitoring reports for the
whole project.
Need for carrying out periodic price surveys.  The PPAF, in collaboration with the Partner Organizations,
will carry out quarterly market-based price surveys of the
material used. The results of the price surveys would be
provided to IDA along with a comparison of actual prices
paid.
Need  for  assignment  of  procurement Procurement responsibility will be assigned to the current
responsibility to a qualified long-term employee Head of Finance and Accounts, who has received training in
with experience in procurement and trained in the Bank's procurement procedures. This individual should
procurement procedures of the Bank. And, the either be employed on a longer term contract or a suitable
need for expanded procurement training and replacement found. It was agreed that by  project
designation of focal points for procurement.  effectiveness other relevant project procurement staff will
attend procurement training workshops conducted by the
Bank. The trained staff will serve as focal points on
procurement related matters during the course of the project.



Page 95
Annex 6.3
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
PMR Formats for Procurement
6.3.1  Contract Expenditure Report - Goods & Works
6.3.2  Contract Expenditure Report - Consultants
6.3.3  Procurement Process Monitoring - Goods & Works
6.3.4  Procurement Process Monitoring - Consultants



Page 96
Annex 6.3.1
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Contract Expenditure Report - Goods & Works
Quarterly PMR
Project Management Report (PMR)                                    For contracts above: (i) the prior review threshold; and /or                                 DRAFT Report-PMR-3C
(ii) USD 100,000 equivalent
Pakistan
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project (Cr. No..../Ln. No....)
Contract Expenditure Report (Goods and Works)
As at .      xxxx
Date Format (mm/dd/yy)
Disbursement                Contract               Procurement   Contract    Supplier/   Nationality   Zip Code    Contract    Contract           Amount       Amount   Expenditure
Category                Description/i             Method/i    Number/iii  Contractor                     if U.S.     Currency       Value       Invoiced       Paid       Type/iv
to date     to date
No.       Description
Goods                                          ICB
NCB
NS                                 .
Works                                          NCB
NOTES:
/i: This report provides procurement information for the project from inception to the latest reporting date.
/ii: Each method in Procurement Guidelines should be shown separately.    [            l            I
/iii: Amendments should be included as an additional line with the same contract number and should indicate the amendment number.
/iv: Foreign, local (ex factory) or local (other)                                                                 _
ICB = International Competitive Bidding
NCB = National Competitive Bidding                                                                          _
NS = National Shopping



Page 97
Annex 6.3.2
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Contract Expenditure Report - Consultants
Quarterly PMR
Project Management Report (PMR)                               For contracts above: (i) the prior review threshold; and /or                                 DRAFT Report-PMR-3D
(ii) USD I00,000 equivalent
Pakistan
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project (Cr. No .... /Ln. No.)
Contract Expenditure Report (Consultants' Services)
As at .       xxxx
Date Format (mmldd/yv)
Disbursement Category  Selection    Contract       Contract Description    Consultant  Nationality    Zip Code      Contract    Contract       Amount        Amount   Expenditure
Method/ii  Number/iii                                                           if U.S.     Currency       Value       Invoiced       Paid        Type/iv
________                                       .                                                                         to date      to datc
No.         Description
Consultants'  QCBS
Services       CQ
sss
_ _ _ _ N O TES:   _ _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _   _  _      _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _                                 _  _   _                   _  _   _
Ai: This report provides procurement_information for the_rjc from inception to the latest reporting date.
_____   ii: Each method in Consultant Selection Guidelines should be shownsprtl.   _____ 
/iii: Amendments should be included as an additional line with the same contract number and should indicate the amendment number.
______           ~~~QCBS = Quality and Cost Based Selection         i  ___           ___          ___          ___           ___
__ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   Q S el ct o   B a e   on C n u t n s Q a i.ai n I_             _ _ __  _  _ _ _  _ _    _ _ _ _  _    _ _ _ _
________  ________ SSS  Single Source Selection  _________  _________  _________  _________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Page 98
Annex 6.3.3
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Procurement Process Monitoring - Goods & Works
Project Management Repo  (                                                                                                                                                   Quarterly PMR
I For contracts above the prior review threshold  j                            DRAFT Report-PMR-3A
Pakistan
Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund Project (Cr. No..../Ln. No.-)
Procurement Process Monitoring (Goods and Works)
As at ..     xxxx xxxx
Date Format (mm/dd/yy)
Bidding Process Dates
Disbursement         Contract         Procurement    Tender           Bid          Bid Package  Bid Open  Bid Validity  Bid    Contract No  Contract    Contract    Supplier/  Contract No.
Category          Description        Method/ii      No.          Documents        Available                         Evaluation   Objection   Signature  End      Contractor
I_Sent                                          Namne
Sent        No Objection
No.    Description                                               P    A    P    A    P    A   P         A    P    A    P    A    P    A    P    A    P          A
Goods                       ICB             I          II______
NCB___ _
NS
Works                          NCB
/i: This report provides procurement information for the pirojec from  nception to the latest reporting date
/ii: Each method in Procurement Guidelines should be shown separately                  -    -         I                       -
ICB = International Competitive Bidding                  t
_ NCB = National Competitive Bidding
_NS =National ShoppingI
Note:    P stands for Planned
A stands for Actual



Page 99
Annex 6.3.3
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Procurement Process Monitoring - Consultants
Project Management Report (PMR)                     J J       1L                     For contracts above the prior review threshold    |   |I Quarterly PMR
= ..... IL L L LII I I I     1                                                          L   1J           ]L]Z  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1  1 1 1 |    | ||||Draft Report-PMR-3B
Pakistan
Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund Project (Cr. No.. ./Ln. No...)
Procurement Process Monitoring (Consultants' Services)
As at .     xxxx
Date Format (mm/ddlyy)
_____         I          Proposal Process Dates
Disbursement   Selection   Proposal Expression of    Request for Proposals (RFP)    Proposal  Proposal  Tech. Proposal  Final          Contract                     Consultant Contract No.
Category    Method/ii    No.      interest                                 Receipt   Validity     Evaluation         Evaluation                                     Name
Sent        No       Issued                      Sent        No    Sent          No        No     Signature  End
Objection                                        Objection          Objection  Objection
No. Description _A                               P A P  A    P   A    P   A   P   A    P   A    P   A                P A  P   A   P   A    P   A   A 
Consulta QCBS
nts,
Services CQ
Ssss
Ti. This report provides procurement information o h  rjc from inception to the latest reporting date
Hi: Each method in Consultants Gutidelines should be shown separately
QCBS =Quality and Cost Based Selection
J____CQ =Selection Based on Consultants Qualification        II________
_     __vi SS_ __ __ _________   I                                                                  _  _ _                  _ _I                                       _  __
= _____ SSS =Single Source Selection
Note:    P stands for Planned
A stands for Actual



Page 100
Annex 7
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
183 original estimate
157 revised             127
B. Project Schedule                             Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)            03/15/1998           03/15/1998
Appraisal mission departure                    08/31/1998           01/06/1999
Negotiations                                   _1015/11998          05/1144/11999 9_
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  11/30/1998           07/31/1999
Prepared by: Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant No.                   TF025388
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                          Specialty
Abid Hasan                    Team Leader
Qazi Azmat Isa                Task Leader
Fakhruddin Ahmed              Senior Advisor
Mudassir Khan                 Finance Specialist
Jacques Toureille             Principal Financial Policy Analyst
Philippe Dongier             Institutional Specialist
David Marsden                 Social Development Specialist
Yasmin Tayyab                 Social Development Specialist
Paul Martin                   Environmental Specialist
Amanullah Khan Malik          Disbursement Specialist
Vimala Abraham                Senior Disbursement Officer
Naseer A. Rana                Procurement Specialist
Hasan Saqib                   Financial Management Specialist
Robert Saum                   Financial Management Specialist
Reazul Islam                  Senior Economist
Tauheed Ahmed                Informatics Specialist
Akhtar Hamid                  Legal Team Coordinator
Sara Gonzalez Flavell         Legal Team Coordinator
Soniya Carvalho               Evaluation Officer & Social Fund Specialist



Page 101
Annex 8
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Documents in Project File
A. Borrowers' Documents
1.    Incorporation Certificate of the PPAF
2.    Operations Manual of the PPAF
• Organogram of the PPAF
* Financing Agreements between the PPAF and Partner Organizations
l Subproject Financing Agreements between Partner Organizations and Beneficiaries
3.    Project Implementation Plan
a Management Information System
4.    Environmental Management Framework
5.    Memorandum and Articles of Association of the PPAF
B. Bank Staff Assessments
6.    September 25, 1995. "Pakistan Poverty Assessment". Country Operations Division, Country
Department I. South Asia Region. World Bank Document, No. 14397-PAK.
7.    Abid, Zainab. August 1997. "A Report of NGOs in Pakistan and their Collaboration with the
World Bank". Social Sector Unit. World Bank Report.
8.    Ismail, Amina and Qureshi, Humaira. December 1997. "Status of Micro-Credit in Pakistan".
World Bank Report.
C. Other
1.    Hashmi, Azim; Hussein, Maliha H.; and Rao, Tanvir Hussain. January 6, 1998. "Situation
Analysis of Women's Credit Needs in Rawalpindi and Karachi". Women and Urban Credit
Project, United Nations Development Program (UNDP).
2.    Credit Administration Manual of the National Rural Support Program
3.    Aide Memoire. PPAF Appraisal Mission, January 6 - 22, 1999.
* Draft Terms of Reference for PPAF's Internal Audit Department
* Terms of Reference for the Statutory Auditor of the PPAF regarding Audit of Partner
Organizations
4.    NGO Profiles
5.    Overview of the Rural Support Programs (RSPs)
6.    NGO Absorptive Capacity
7.    Demand for Funds



Page 102
Annex 9
Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Status of Bank Group Operations in Pakistan
Operations Portfolio
Original Amount in US$ Millions                         Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                         Supervision Rating a/
Project ID    Year                       Purpose                             IBRD           IDA       Cancel.    Disbursed Undisbursed    Dev Obj       Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 164
Active Projects
PK-PE-10325   1989  KARACHI WATER & SANITATION                                  0.00       216.90         0.00        205.01        24.54       S           NR
PK-PE-10346   1990  SIND PRIMARY EDUCATION                                      0.00        112.50         9.90       100.95         8.86       S            S
PK-PE-10371   1991  FAMILY HEALTH I                                             0.00        45.00          8.32        20.05        16.23       S            S
PK-PE-10366   1991  RURAL WATER SUPPLY & SANIT.                                 0.00        136.70       28.36         64.42        41.78       S            U
PK-PE-10399   1992  ENV. PROT. & RES. CO                                        0.00        29.20          5.46        14.82         9.42       S            S
PK-PE-10394  1992  PUNJAB MIDDLE SCHOOLING                                      0.00        115.00        13.03        31.14        67.15       S            S
PK-PE-10421   1993  NORTH PAKISTAN RESOU MGMT                                   0.00        28.80         0.00         18.90         9.46       S            S
PK-PE-10414   1993  FAMILY HEALTH II                                            0.00        48.00         19.89        17.95        10.34       S            S
PK-PE-10417   1993  BALOCHI4STAN PRIMARY EDUCATION                              0.00        106.00        0.00         70.40        36.43      U             U
PK-PE-10405   1993  EAST.SADIQIA SO PHASE                                       0.00        54.20         0.00         33.93        20.85       S            S
PK-PE-10453   1994  BALUCHISTAN NATURAL RESOU                                   0.00         14.70        3.78          5.00         6.11       S            S
PK-PE-10458   1994  POWER SECT. DEV. PROJECT                                  230.00         0.00          0.00       132.11        97.89       S            S
PK-PE-10452   1994  SINDH SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT                                   0.00        46.80         0.00         18.04        28.17       S            S
PK-PE-10492   1995  POPULATION WELFARE PROGRAM                                  0.00        65.10         27.92        13.51        21.90       S            S
PK-PE-10486   1995  NWFP PRIMARY EDUCATION                                      0.00        150.00       29.13         41.01        74.15      U             S
PK-PE-10470   1995  FIN SEC DEEPEN &INTERMEDIATION                            216.00         0.00        150.00         3.29        62.71       S            S
PK-PE-10481   1995  FOREST SECTOR DEVELOPMENT                                   0.00        24.87         0.00          7.10        14.90       S            S
PK-PE- 10450   1995  PVT SEC EGY DEV 11                                       250.00         0.00         0.00        181.25        68.75       S            S
PK-PE-39281   1996  GHAZI BAROTHA HYDROPOWER                                  350.00         0.00          0.00       136.07       213.93       S            S
PK-PE-34101   1996  TELECOM REG & PRIVATIZATION                                35.00         0.00         0.00          0.39        34.61       S            S
PK-PE-10478   1996  NWFP COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTUR                                0.00        21.50         0.00          3.54        15.26       S            S
PK-PE-10482   1996  BAL COMMUN IRRIG AGRICULTURE                                0.00        26.70          0.00         6.02        19.22       S            S
PK-PE-37827   1996  NORTHERN HEALTH                                             0.00        26.70         6.82          5.64        12.98       S            S
PK-PE-36015   1997  IMPR FIN REP & AUDITING                                     0.00        28.80          0.00         2.82        24.57       S            S
PK-PE-10501   1997  PVT SECTOR GROUND WATER                                     0.00        56.00         0.00          4.61        47.82       S            S
PK-PE-37835   1998  SOCIAL ACTION PRG 11                                        0.00       250.00          0.00        43.71       207.32       S            S
PK-PE-37834   1998  NORTHERN EDUCATION                                          0.00        22.80         0.00          0.35        21.98       S            S
PK-PE-10500   1998  NATIONAL DRAINAGE PROGRAM                                   0.00       285.00         0.00         27.62       242.55       S            S
PK-PE-59323   1999  STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN                                350.00         0.00         0.00        346.50         0.00
Total                                                                        1,431.00     1,911.27      302.61      1,556.15     1,459.88



Page 103
Active Projects     Closed Projects         Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  1,556.15             8,295.12            9,851.27
of which has been repaid:                        0.00              2,417.45            2,417.45
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                  3,039.66             5,732.28            8,771.94
Amount sold         :                               0.00                45.09                45.09
Of which repaid    :                               0.00                45.09               45.09
Total Undisbursed    :                           1,459.88               25.98             1,485.86
a. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS =highly Satisfactory, S =satisfactory, U =unsatisfactory, HU =highly unsatisfactory):
see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-90 1), August 23, 1994.
Note: Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Page 104
Annex 10 - Pakistan at a Glance
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                 South       Low-                   - -          --      -
Pakistan       Asia   Income        Development diamond*
Population, mid-year  (millions)                         136.7P     1289       2,048                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS$)                       490         390       350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                          67.0        502       722
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (1%)                                            2.8        1.9        2.1
Labor force ON:)                                           3.2        2,2        2.3      GNP                                Gross
Z'2  2~3      per                               primary
Most recent estimate (latestyear available 19g10-97)                                      capita                         enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)       34
Urbanrpopulation  (%oftotal population)                     22      27           28
Lifeexpectancyatbirth  (years)                              61         62        S9
Infantnmortality (per,000flivebirhs)                        87        71         78
Child malnutrition  {h(%of children under 5)                ,.         63        61                 Access to safe water
Access to safe water (%ofppopulation)                       60         77        71
Illiteracy (%0of population age15+)                        62          51        47
Gross primary enrollment    %i of chool-age population)  :5            99        9t                    Pakistan
Male                                                      80        109       100                    Low-income group
Female                                                    49         89        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986        1996      19S7 :
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billions)                              13.3      31 9       64.7       61 7
Gross domestic investmenVGD1P                   17.2      1S.8       t8.7       17.4                       Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP               10.7      12.3       16.6       17.2
Gross domestic savings/GDP                       7.9      10.S       14.2       12.4                         T
Gross national savings/GDP          :6                     4.8       15.0       14.1
Current account balancelGOP                      -7.1      3.9        6 .5      -5.8      Domestic                       Ie     n
Interest payments/GDP                            1.0       1.1        1,4        1.6      Savinvesmen
Total debt/GDP                                  51.0      48.6 41.1             48.       SavingsI
Total debt service/exports                      21.6      25.4       27.6       26.2
Present value of debttGDP                          ..                 5.9         ,. _
Present value of debt/exports          I           -         .      194.3          -
Indebtedness
1i76-86   1987-97     1996       599T   199802
(average annual growth)
GDP       ;                            6,S       4.7       4 .7       -.4        5.8                    Pakistan
GNP per capia                           44       1.2       1.1       .3.2        3.0                    Low-income group
Exports of goodsand services           9.2      687        1.9       -6.5        5.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986       1996       1997       Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(%/ of GDP)                                                                               1 
Agriculture                                     31.6      27.6       25.8       24.7      1T
Industry                                        24.3      23.4       24.6       25.1     15
Nlanufacturing                                 16.5     16.3        16.9      17.4       0
Services                                        44.2      49.0       49.6       50.2      5
Private consumption                             81.3      76.3       73.4       75.4     -0
Generalgovemmentconsumption                     10.9      12.8       12.4       12.0                -                   GDP
Imports ofgoodsand services                     20.1      20.1       21.0       21.0
1976-86   1987-97      1996       1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                      4.7       4.0        5.8        0.1     40
Induistry                                        7.1       5.8        5.4        1.0    30
Manufacturing                                   8.2      5.5         4.8       1.2      20 -
Services                                         7.5       4.9        4.8        2.1     10
Private consumption                              5.2       5.0        7.0        3.7    0o        ____ -_                     _
General government consumption                   8.0       1.8        6.8       -8.4    .1T
Gross domestic investment                        7.5       3.9        5.4       -7.0   .-20
Imports of goods and services                    3.9       4.7       13.6       -1.4    |_Exrts                         Imports
Gross national product                           7.6       4.1        3.8       -0.6
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
^ The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 105
Pakistan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                1976      1986       1996      199t       Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                              15
Consumer prices                                    .         ..      10.8      1 1.8    Dn
ImplicitGDP deflator                            11.9       3.3        9.9      11"4
Government finance                                                                      I
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                   ..    18.0         17.0      16.1              92    9S    94    9S    96    97
Current budget balance                            ..        ..       -2.5      -3.0                -  GDP deflator    CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           ..        ..       -6.9      -6.4
TRADE
1976     1986       1996      1997       Export and Import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                ..   2,942       8,707     8,195     14000
Rice                                             ..     513         505       469      2,000       
Cotton                                           ..     342         507        31       s0ns
Manufactures                                     ..   2,055       4,981     5,677      san 
Total imports (cif)                                      6,527     12,996    12,440       000 i         iiiii1
Food                                             .         ..     1,51 9    1,233      4a
Fuel and energy                                   ..   1,039      1,979     2,225      2,000
Capital goods                                              . .    3,345     4,343         0
91   92   93   94   9S   96   97
Exportprice index (1995=100)                      ..        ..       112
Import price index (1995=100)                     ..        ..       110                           *Exports       mimports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                         ..        ..       102
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986       1996       1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio %)
IUS    o millions)
Exports of goods and services                  1,430    3,796      10,317     9,781 o
Imports of goods and services                  2,584    7,230      1 5,174    14,418     1 .llll           
Resource balance                              -1,154   -3,434      -4,857    -4,637
Net income                                      -144      -640     -1,943    -2,170     -2 I
Net current transfers                            473    3,302       2,605     3,245      -4
Current account balance                         -946   -1,249      -4.195    -3,562    |-5t                                    6
Financing items (net)                            956    1,677       3,745     2,525       t
Changes in net reserves                          -10      -428       450      1,037      7
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)            ..   1,465        2,742     1,776
Conversion rate (DEC, locaV1US$)                 9.9      16.1       33.5      39.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996       1997
(US$ millions)                                                                           Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           6,602   14,668      29,802    29,665
IBRD                                          320       605      3,007      3,046                  G: 2,481    A: 3,046
IDA                                           549    1,560       3,480      3,526
Total debt service                               386    1,651       3,289     4,006                                        3,526
IBRD                                            54       88        436       399         F: 4,346
IDA                                             12       26         63         8
C: t,281
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                122      315        214       289
Official creditors                            734       421       1,149     1,027
Private creditors                               19       56        546       156
Foreign direct investment                        8      105       1,106      700             E:9, 648                  5,337
Portfolio equity                                 0        0        700       268
World Bank program
Commitments                                    189      766        483       558    |A-IBRD                           E-Bitateral
Disbursements                                 129       252        651       722      B-IDA     D -Othermultilateral   F -Private
Principal repayments                           27        50        265       248      C - IMF                         G - Short-term
Netflows                                      102       202        386       475
Interest payments                              40        64        234       219
Net transfers                                  62       138        151       256
Development Economics                                                                                                       12/23198



ANNEX 11
ENVIR0NMENTAL DATA SI4ET FOR PROJECTS
1I THE IBRDIIDA LENDING PROGRAM
AC-e^s%e Nqo.         M. _0 E
Country     (      4                                 Paistan
Pr,,cFc         AC            -          caii AW    Povey Alleviation Fund
.4ppraisal                                            ecember 15, 1998
Total Project Cost                                  :USS I0O million
Board Date                                           May 15,1999
Managing Division                                    SASFP
Sector                                               Multi-sector, including
credit & infrastucture
Lending Instrument                                  : Specific Investmen tLoan
Date (est) for receipt of EA by lIank
Date for receipt of BA by Bank iCategory A projects)  :Not applicable
EA Category to be assigned                           C
Date Data Sheet prepared/lJpdaud                    :May 22. 1998
Major Project components:
The proposed country-wide project would be implemented over four years and wiu provide
complementaritv to the sua-runuassistance programs to the poor. The major project components are:
(i) Community Inf-astucnire:
This component will supoort, in the form of grants on a cost sharing basis, small scale community infrastru=re
sub-projects. Identification of sub-projects will be demand driven and their selection will be transparent and
based on sustainability as determined by the ability of the communities to recover operations and maintenance
cosTs. Intermediary agencies, such as parmer organizations, will assist communities in organizing as   groups
and preparing, implementing anc: managing these schemes. These schemes will provide poor coommunities
with assets that contbute to inc2eased incomes and production to enhance their earning capacity. The average
size of schemes is expected to b,t approximately USS 10,000.
(ii) Income Generation:
This would comprise of two sub-components. micro-credit and working capital loans to NGOs.
(a) Micro-credit:
This component will provide loans to parter organizations who in turn will provide loans to the poor based on
eligibility criteria developed by PPAF. Thesc loans will act a3 means to enhance investment by the poor,
emrower them to access social s&vices, and as a mechasism of establishing a pern=ent income generating
base for them. Typical size of loetsa are expected to range from USS 50 to USS 200.
(b) Worldng Capital Loans:
This component will provide woiking capital loans to specialized parmer organizations with established tack
record of good management, prolitability and financial tansparecy, who provide the pocr with a package of
Form



support for integrated income gcasting activities including, maiketing  pt supply, sildll t ng. product
development. etc.
(iii) Program Financing:
This component will fina mce ruti-year programs of parter organiations who may have mobilized several
communities as part of their ongeing programs, and have long standing trak records.
(iv) Caacity Building.
This component will develop thi capacity of the PPAF and key stakeholders. such as communities, parmer
organi2ations, and the private sector in order to improve their effectiveness in imnplementing povaty alleviation
programs.
Malor Environmentzl Issues: (Itdentified or suspected in project)
No major environmental ssues are anticipated. Sub-projects would be small and would be identified,
implemented and maintained by ;ommunitics ensuring better use of namal rcsourmes The Operations Manual
of the PPAF will clearly articula* tha sub-projects that have a negatve effect on the environment will not be
considered. These measures will to a large extent ensure that tis project does not have adverse environmental
effects normally associated with tew development such as resetdement, depletion of land and water resources
and loss of wildlife habitat
Other Environmental Issues: (of lesser scope assocated with project)
None
Proposed Actions: (to mitigate Assues described above)
Approval criteria will strinly ensure tha sub-projects that ay have a ngative effect on the
environment (e.g. rubewells in witer scarce areas) will not be considered for financing.
Justification/Rationale for En'vtonmental Category: (present reasons for environmental category
selected and explanation of any, changes from initial classification)
The project is expected to have a benign impact on the environment and has therefore been placed under
category C. Sub-projects will be umall in scale and maintenance by communities will better guarantee use of
natural resources.
Status of Category A Environmental Assssment: (presents EA start-up date, EA first draft and current
status)
This is a Category C Projesrt
Remarks: (give status of any o*er environmental studies, lists local groups and local NGOs consulted
whether borrower has given peimission to release EA et).
No negative enviro=mental -Mpacts are anticipated from projeet implementacion.
Form



Signature(t
and Date:    (d
Signatur
and Daae
Sectos Mauag.r SASP?
and Dste
chard Ackarmamn
, Sector Minager South Asia Env.ra=ent
Form



ANNEX    12
SOCIAL DATA SHEET FOR ASIA REGIONS
This form shall accompany the environmental Data Sheet at the time of the IEPS and Concept
Paper Review, and then at the FEPS and Decision Package Review. It is meant to serve as a
planning tool for Task Managers, Sector Units, and Departments and the team assisting them
on social issues. It wilI also assist in monitoring of projects under preparation and in the
discussion of resource and time implications,
Country:          Pakistan
Project ID:       49791
Sector:           Multi-sector, focusing on poverty alleviation
Project:          Palistan Poverty Alleviation Fund Project
Managing Unit:    SASFP
Board Date FY:    November 30, 1998
L. What are the key development objectives of the proposed project?
The project aims to alleviate poverty by empowering the rural and urban poor, by providing
them with access to resources and services. The project would specifically target women, as
the burden of poverty falls disproportionately on them. This objective will be pursued through
the already established autonomous body, the Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund (PPAF).
More specifically it will:
i) increase incomes of poor households by providing loans and technical support for micro-
enterprises;
ii) empower the poor, specially women;
iii) increase access of the poor to physical infrastructure; and
iv) strengthen the institutional capacity of the Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund (and of its
partner organizations and communities) through which project resources will reach the poor.
Form _



3
II. Social Screening Criteria (please check)
1                        2                    3                     4.
MANDATORY                  POVERTY                       GENDER                     PROJECT SOCIAL
(See Section IV.2)          TARGETED            Project involves high risks or       CLASSIFICATION/2
INTERVENTION             high benefts for women
511
Resettlement/Land
Acquisition O.D. 4.30         A                     High Risk: Yes-No                    Type I
(Not Applicable)
High Benefits: Yes V No_
Indigenous Peoples O.D"4.20   B                                                         Type 2   V
(Not Applicable)          IlI_                                                _
AB                                                        Type 3
NONE
5. What are the key social concerns in this 4project?
Equity The project aims to redress the neglect towards the poor and the disadvantaged by
making them the main beneficiaries
Adequate commitment The BOD of the PPAF are leading practitioners with demonstrated
coimmitment
Adequate institutional capacity To be assessed
Adverse Impacts None envisaged, however, the Social Assessment may identify
Other social concerns None presently the Social Assessment may identify
1. Category A: Narrowlv targeted. specific mechanisms, significant (greater than 25%) funds earmarked for
this.
Category B: Broad targeting, proportion of poor as beneficiaries higher than proportion in population.
Category AB: Narrow and broad targeting
2. Type 1: High adversw, risk or high benefits for popuiations within or outside of the project area speciaily
populations belonging to vulnerable groups, such as indigenous peoples, ethnic minorities, women and the
poor or projects with resettlement. Project requires extensive social analysis, high stakeholder involvement.
and resources during preparation and implementation.
Type 2: low risk/high benefits for populations within or outside the project area especially populations
belonging to vulnerable groups. Project requires some but limited social analysis and stakeholder analysis
and stakeholder involvement.
Type 3: Project with limited/indirect impact on womenilocal populations, requiring limited stakeholder
involvement and social analysis.
43. CBOs: Comnunitv Based Organizations differ from NGOs, because they are usually unregistered, their area
of coverage is limited to one locality, and their operations serve the needs of their members.
Fonn



III. Stakeholder Identification
I .Stakeholders are people who can influence a project, or who will be affected by it. Who are
the key stakeholders in this project? Some projects try to reach or may have an inpact upon
people who are marginal to the mainstream society. Depending on country and context, this
group could include women, minority groups, indigenous peoples, refugees and others. Are
there any vulnerable groups affected by the project? If so, are any special measiures needed to
take their views into account and get project benefits to them? You may wish to use the
following typology for listing stakeholders. These categories are not mutually exclusive but
listing them separately may help you in clarifying the issues. (Please indicate whether
stakeholders ars directly affected (DA or Indirectly Affected (IA)J3)
Benefiting Groups:
Total population in project area Potentially the 40 million poor of Pakistan
Women
Children /
Poverty Groups   '
Ethnic Minorities Not directly targeted, but if poor will also benefit
Indigenous Peoples
Fanners   I/
Private Entities:
Private Sector   V
International NGOs N/A
Local NGOs        V
CBO's      /
Public Entities:
Central Government Agencies Not directly
Provincial State Governments Not directly
Local Government Agencies Not directly
Other Donors Not Presently
2. To promote transparency and accountability the Bank encourages team leaders to document
stakeholder involvement and make this information publicly available. How will this be done
in this project?
For the PPAF to be accountable it would require consultation with its partners, (NGOs),
CBOs and communities on a continuos basis. The Membership and Board of the PPAF
represent a wide cross-section of people from NGOs, CBOs, academia, professionals,
business and the Government and they are seen as the champions of their respective
constituencies who would ensure that PPAF continues to follow its agenda of poverty
alleviation. Furthernore according to its Articles district level committees with community
members and partner organizations are also planned to ensure feedback at the district level.
These will also be complemented with stakeholder workshops in the future.
Form



To ensure transparency the PPAF plans to advertise, seeling expressions of interest from
potential partners, it also would widely disseminate information to the public by using the
media extensively.
The Bank has as part of its dissemination campaign, shared a concept note on the project with
leading NGOs, NGO Federations, Donors and Government, and has received feedback in
many instances. This is either reflected in the project PCD presently or will be at preparation/
appraisal.
IV. Social Issues to be analyzed: Yes   _    No
1. Types of social issues to be analyzed:
Gender  /    Ethnic Groups      N/A       Indigenous Peoples   N/A
Poverty V           Stakeholder Analysis v/
Others:
V. Participation
1. The greatest social risk to most projects is a lack of capacity to build awareness and
commitment and to reach the target population. What will be done to ensure that there is
adequate capacity to support participatory processes and ensure that benefits reach the target
population?
Participation is at the core of the project. Intermediary partner organizations will assist
communities in organizing as groups (both men and women) and preparing and implementing
sub-projects. Details are provided under the main PCD.
2.    Levels of Anticipated Participation
In the space provided below please indicate at what level the stakeholders checked in item II
above will participate and at what stage of the project cycle. The four levels of participation
are: a) Information Sharing (IS): translation into local languages and dissemination of written
material using various media, information seminars, presentations and public meetings; b)
Consultation (CON): consultative meetings, field visits and interviews (at various stages of
work); c) Collaboration/Implementation (COL): for joint decision-making: formation of joint
committees with stakeholders representatives; formation of joint working groups; task forces;
joint work with user groups; intermediary organization and other stakeholders; support of new
spontaneous initiatives by stakeholders; d) Empowerment (EMP): Investmnent in building
institutional capacity of stakeholders organizations; strengthening the financial and legal
status of stakeholder organizations; hand-over and self management by stakeholders; support
for new spontaneous initiatives by stakeholders.
Form



Stakeholders             Project Cycle            What level of Participation
Civil Society           Preparation               IS/CON
(Including NGOs,
Private Sector etc.)
Community Groups        Appraisal &               IS/CON/COL/EMP
Implementation
NGOs                    Appraisal &               IS/CON/COL/EMP
Implementation
VI. Mitigation Planning
Type of Plan   Plan Needed    Date of     Number of   How many to    Amount of
Submission      People      be resettled      Land
Affected                  Acquisition (in
___________        __________   ____________    ___________     hectares)
YES INO
O.D. 4.30
Involuntary            /
Resettlement
O.D. 4.20         __
Indigenous
Peoples
Sector Loans:     If not applicable please check NA:  NA
A.   Involuntary Resettlement in Sector lending:  B:  Strategies for Indigenous Peoples issues:
(Not Applicable)                             (Not Applicable)
(i)  Entitlements and procedures agreed      (i)  Participation process agreed
(ii)  Institutional Arrangement agreed       (ii)  Institutional Arrangement agreed
(iii) Funding agreed                          (iii) Funding agreed
C.   Is there a strategy or a plan to retrofit potential involuntary resettlement problems?
Yes  -       No  as not applicable
D.    Other Mitigation Plans:
Prepared byi /l/ l                                Date: July 9, 1998
Qazi An at Isa, TasiCLeader
Signed by:      /449' 6 ;?
4--t Marilou Uy,SectorManager               nn Bennett,  Sec or Manager
ASSD
Form



