Page  1
CONFORMED COPY   
CREDIT NUMBER 3248 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(Poverty Alleviation Fund Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  July 7, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3248 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated July 7, 1999 between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN acting by its 
President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by the Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund 
(PPAF) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make available to PPAF, the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; 
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 01, 1985, (as amended through December 
2, 1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12. ‘Participating Country’ means any country that, the Association determines, 
meets the 
requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 183 of the Board 
of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, and ‘Participating 
Countries’ means, collectively, 
all such countries; and 
(b)
Subparagraph (a) of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“(a)
on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which 
is not a 
Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services supplied 
from, such 
territories.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary” means a community organization or group or a village, 
women’s group or committee, mohalla (low income urban neighborhood) group or committee 
or self-help organization, group or committee, and includes, for purposes of sub-loans 
only, an individual belonging to any such organization, group or committee;
(b)
“Environmental Management Framework” means the environmental management 
framework dated May 12, 1999, satisfactory to the Association, within which 
Subprojects shall be implemented, as the same may be amended from time to time with 
the agreement of the Association;
(c)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7) 
and (8) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(e)
“Fiscal Year” means the Fiscal Year of the Borrower beginning on July 1 
of a calendar year and ending on June 30 of the following calendar year;
(f)
“Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made through a PO out of the 
proceeds of the Credit to a Beneficiary for an SSIP;
(g)
“MCP” means a Micro-Credit Project financed or proposed to be financed 
under Part A (i) of the Project;
(h)
“Memorandum and Articles of Association” means the Memorandum and 
Articles of Association of PPAF dated February 6, 1997;
(i)
“Operations Manual” means PPAF’s comprehensive operations manual dated 
May 12, 1999, satisfactory to the Association, containing PPAF’s eligibility criteria 
and appraisal, approval and supervision rules and procedures for POs, Beneficiaries 
and Subprojects, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of 
the Association;
(j)
“PO Financing Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between 
PPAF and a PO pursuant to paragraph 3 (c) of Part A of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement;
(k)
“PO” means a Partner Organization, being a Non-governmental Organization 
(NGO), Rural Support Program (RSP), Community Based Organization (CBO) or private 
sector institution or entity, which is involved in poverty alleviation work through 
income generating activities, which meets the eligibility criteria for POs set forth 
in the Operations Manual, and which has made or proposes to make a Sub-loan or Grant;
(l)
“PPAF” means the Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund, an autonomous entity 
registered as a public non-profit company under Section 42 of the Borrower’s Companies 
Page  3
Ordinance, 1984 and established as of February 6, 1997;
(m)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement;
(n)
“Rs” or “rupees” means the currency of the Borrower;
(o)   “SSIP” means a Small-Scale Community Infrastructure Development Project 
financed or proposed to be financed under Part A (ii) of the Project;
(p)
“Special Account” means the Special Account which the Borrower shall open 
and maintain for PPAF pursuant to in Part B.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(q)
“Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by a PO out of the 
proceeds of the Credit to a Beneficiary for a MCP;
(r)
“Subproject” means a MCP or an SSIP depending on the context;
(s)
“Subproject Financing Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into 
between a PO and a Beneficiary, in the case of a Sub-loan, pursuant to paragraph 3 (g) 
of Part B of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, or, in the case of a Grant, pursuant 
to paragraphs 3 (g) and (h) of Part B of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; and
(t)
“Subsidiary Financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and PPAF pursuant to Section 3.01 (b)(i) of this Agreement, as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixty-six million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 66,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account, 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for Part B of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to 
be paid) through PPAF to a PO on account of withdrawals made by a  Beneficiary under a 
Subproject  under Part A of the Project to meet the reasonable cost of works, goods 
and services required for the Subproject in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Credit Account is requested.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue:
(i) 
from the date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement 
(the accrual 
date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the 
Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; 
and
(ii)
at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date or at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of 
Page  4
June 30 in each year shall be applied 
from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid:
(i)
at such places as the Association shall reasonably request;
(ii) 
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the 
Borrower; and 
(iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as 
may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of 
that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
May 15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 2009 and ending May 15, 2034.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on   May 15, 2019 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: 
(i)
the Borrower’s gross national product per capita (GNP), as 
determined by the 
Association, shall have exceeded, for three 
consecutive years, the level 
established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s 
resources; and
(ii) 
the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank 
lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association 
and after due consideration by them of 
the development of the Borrower’s 
economy, modify the repayment of 
installments under 
paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of 
the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of 
the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above 
falling six months or more after the date on which 
the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
Page  5
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09.  The Chief Executive Officer of PPAF is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause PPAF to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of PPAF therein set forth, shall take and cause 
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable PPAF to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance. 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
make available to PPAF the proceeds of the Credit under a 
subsidiary financing 
agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and PPAF, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association and which shall 
include the terms and 
conditions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
and 
(ii)
in addition, provide to PPAF, from its own resources, the 
remainder of the 
equity contribution that it has undertaken to 
make to PPAF in an amount in 
rupees equivalent to $8,000,000 
in two (2) equal installments payable, 
respectively, at the 
beginning of  FY2000 and FY2001.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Section 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by PPAF pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account are made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements 
of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
Page  6
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year 
in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal Year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such Fiscal 
Year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of expenditure 
submitted 
during such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) If an event occurs which, in the opinion of the Association, 
adversely affects or may affect PPAF’s equity, the Borrower shall promptly consult 
with the Association and prepare and thereafter implement a remedial action plan 
satisfactory to the Association. For the purposes of this provision, PPAF’s equity 
shall be deemed adversely affected if at any time it falls by 10% or more.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section, the term “equity” means the sum of 
payments received for capital purposes including payments to PPAF’s endowment fund, 
retained earnings and free reserves not allocated to cover specific liabilities.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
PPAF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that PPAF will be able to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(c)
The Memorandum and Articles of Association shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of PPAF to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of PPAF or for the suspension of 
its operations.
(e)
The Borrower shall have taken any action (including the repeal, 
amendment, suspension, abrogation or waiver of existing legislation and regulations or 
the introduction of new legislation or regulations) which, in the opinion of the 
Page  7
Association, materially or adversely affects the operations or financial condition of 
POs, or a significant majority of them.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
(b)
Any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and PPAF.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by PPAF, 
and is legally binding upon PPAF in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and PPAF and is legally binding upon the Borrower and PPAF in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs 
Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section 
Officer in the Economic Affairs Division of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan 
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad 
Pakistan
Cable address: 
Telex:
ECONOMIC   
ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Page  8
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of Islamabad, Islamic Republic of Pakistan, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ Zaheer Sajjad
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION \0b\0d
By /s/ Sadiq Ahmed
Country Director
Pakistan
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Part A:
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Sub-loans
   33,200,000
100% of amounts
disbursed by PPAF
(2)
Grants 
   20,650,000
100% of amounts
disbursed by PPAF
(3)
Civil works for PPAF
    1,475,000
90%
(4)
Equipment and vehicles
    1,000,000
100% of foreign 
for PPAF
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 
70% of local expendi-
tures for other items
procured locally
(5)
Equipment for POs     
      275,000
100% of amounts
disbursed by PPAF
100% of foreign expen-
ditures, 100% local 
Page  9
expenitures (ex-factory
cost) and 70% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(6)
Consultants’ services
    1,475,000
100%
for PPAF
(7)
Training for: 
100%
(a)
PPAF
      120,000
(b)
POs
       30,000
(8)
Incremental operating 
costs of:
(a)  PPAF
775,000
Up to 85% in FY2000,
up to 40% in FY2001,
up to 15% in FY2002, 
up to 10% in FY2003 and 
0% in FY 2004
(b)
POs
 
     6,500,000
100% of amounts dis-
bursed by PPAF to
finance up to 90% of
the cost of each PO in
the first year of such 
PO’s such PO’s 
opera-tions, 
up to 65% of such costs in 
the second year of such 
operations and up to 30% 
of such costs in the third 
year of such operations
(9)
Unallocated
 
    1,000,000
   __________
TOTAL:
   66,500,000
   ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means:
(i)
in respect of PPAF, salaries, per diem, and fringe benefits of 
staff appointed 
to posts in PPAF on or after March 1, 1998 and 
engaged on a full-time basis 
for the purposes of the Project, and the 
operating and maintenance costs of 
vehicles, equipment and offices 
acquired under and used in carrying out the 
Project; and
(ii)
in respect of a PO, the salaries, allowances and other emoluments 
of staff of 
the PO appointed to posts created after the signing of the 
relevant PO 
Financing Agreement and engaged on a full-time basis 
for the purposes of the 
Project, the costs of Beneficiaries’ training 
provided under the Project, and 
the operating and maintenance costs of 
vehicles, equipment and offices used in 
carrying out the Project.
Page  10
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; 
(b)
a Subproject, unless the Subproject has been approved in accordance with 
the procedures, and on the terms and conditions, set forth or referred to in Schedule 
2 to the Project Agreement; and
(c)
Sub-loans or Grants made or to be made by a PO until the Association 
shall have received a duly certified copy of the PO Financing Agreement entered into 
between such PO and PPAF, together with a legal opinion  or opinions satisfactory to 
the Association stating that such PO Financing Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by such PO and is legally binding upon such PO in accordance with its terms.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a)  Sub-loans and 
Grants; (b) goods and works under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (c) 
services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for employment of 
consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for employment of individual consultants, 
respectively; (d) training; and (e) incremental operating costs, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Part B:
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account for 
PPAF in the National Bank of Pakistan, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received:
(i) 
the first Project Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 
(b) of the 
Project Agreement; and 
(ii) 
a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management 
Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex 
A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02(b) of the Project Agreement, accompanied by a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this 
Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines, at any time, that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of the Project Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines, at any time, that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of the Project Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section 
Page  11
in respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend, in 
whole or in part, the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, 
the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into 
the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines, at any time, that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines, at any time, that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to   $5,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which, in the aggregate, do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  
On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required, pursuant 
to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Page  12
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association, pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to said 
Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of 
the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify, by notice, to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into a 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of:
(a) 
the amount so requested; and
(b)
the amount which the Association has determined, based on the Project 
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order 
to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, 
shall not exceed the equivalent of $18,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to alleviate poverty by improving the access of 
the rural and urban poor to economic resources and services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
Subprojects
Financing of:
(i)
micro-credit projects to support income generating activities, 
including 
agriculture and livestock development, off-farm 
activities and 
micro-enterprises; and
 
(ii)
small-scale community infrastructure development projects, 
including the 
development, construction and for improvement 
of:
Page  13
(a) 
karezes (indigenous irrigation channels), other irrigation 
channels, 
small dams, water courses, land-leveling, 
agro-forestry and water 
harvesting structures;
(b) 
bunds, check dams, and other flood protection works;
(c)
link roads, bridges, culverts, causeways and pony tracks; 
and
(d) 
deep-wells, hand-pumps, tube-wells, water reservoirs, 
overhead tanks 
and gravity flow pipelines.
Part B:
Institutional Capacity Building 
Strengthening of the operational capacity of:
(i)
PPAF, through the provision of office buildings, equipment and 
vehicles, 
technical assistance for improving data management 
and financial systems and 
for carrying out studies, training, and 
funding for incremental operating 
costs; and
(ii)
POs, through the provision of equipment, training in implementing 
poverty 
alleviation programs, with emphasis on community 
mobilization and 
participatory approaches, and funding 
for incremental operating costs.
*     *     *     *     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Financing Terms and Conditions Referred to in 
Section 3.01(b)(i) of this Agreement
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree:
 
(a)
with respect to amounts of the Credit allocated from time to time to  
Category (1) of the table set forth in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
the purposes of making Sub-loans, PPAF shall:
(i)
pay to the Borrower, interest at the rate of three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn by PPAF and 
outstanding from time to time;
(ii)
pay to the Borrower, a commitment charge on the principal amount 
of the Credit 
not withdrawn by PPAF from time to time at a rate 
equal to the rate for the 
time being set by the Association pursuant to 
Section 2.04 (a) of this 
Agreement; and
(iii)
repay to the Borrower, the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn by PPAF 
over a period of 23 years including a grace period of 
8 years, such principal 
amount being the aggregate equivalent of the 
amounts withdrawn by PPAF from 
the Credit Account expressed in rupees 
determined as of the respective dates 
of withdrawal; and
(b)
amounts of the Credit allocated, from time to time, to Category (2) of 
the table set forth in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the purposes of 
making Grants and to Categories (3), (4), (5), (6), (7) and (8) of said table shall be 
made available to PPAF on a non- reimbursable basis.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall suspend or 
terminate PPAF’s right to use the proceeds of the Credit:
(a)
upon failure by PPAF to perform any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement, or upon notice by the Association to the Borrower that 
it intends to exercise any of its remedies under Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General 
Page  14
Conditions or Article V of this Agreement; or
(b)
upon notice by PPAF that it intends to terminate the Subsidiary  
Financing Agreement, whichever occurs first.
