Page  1
August
13, 2001
Mr. Nawid Ahsan
Secretary
Economic Affairs Division
Government of Pakistan
Islamabad
Re:
Japan Social Development Fund Grant for Empowering
Rural Women in Punjab
-
Grant Number TF026592
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
(the Bank) to indicate the Bank
’s 
agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan under the
Japan Social Development Fund, to make a grant in an amount not
exceeding five hundred fifteen thousand seven hundred sixty nine
United States Dollars
($515,769) (the Grant) to the Islamic Republic 
of Pakistan
(the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for
financial assistance for the project described in paragraph
1
of the
Annex to this Letter Agreement
(the Project) and on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the said Annex.
The Recipient represents, by
confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and
withdraw the Grant for the said Project and on the said terms and
conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of
the Recipient, by signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed
copy of this Letter Agreement.
Upon receipt by the Bank of the copy
of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement
will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/ John W. Wall
Country Director
Pakistan and Afghanistan
South Asia Region
AGREED:
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By
/s/ Nawid Ahsan
Secretary, Economic Affairs Division
Government of Pakistan
Date: August 13, 2001
Page  2
ANNEX
Objectives, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Description of the Project
1.1.
The objectives of the Project are to plan, implement and monitor, 
through the Social Welfare Department and Punjab Literacy Commission,
Government of Punjab, a pilot initiative in Punjab to reduce
illiteracy of the targeted population of approximately
25,000 women 
aged
15-25 years and to foster income-generation activities among them 
as related to the implementation of the Second Social Action Program
Project, Credit No. 3050 PAK and Poverty Alleviation Fund Project, 
Credit Number
3248
PAK.
1.2.
The Project consists of the following Parts, each of which 
includes the following activities
(Activities):
Part A.
Social Mobilization: Social mobilization by contracting NGOs 
/CBOs with relevant and successful experience of community 
mobilization with special focus on rural women, estimated cost $US
25,000 equivalent; 
Part B.
Materials Development: Development of a comprehensive package 
of learner and training materials by utilization of developed
materials and integrating modules of market skill training and life
skills, estimated to cost $US
144,423 equivalent.
Part C.
Management and Operations: Establishing (a) the Coordinator
’s 
Office in the Department of Social Welfare of the Government of Punjab
for general oversight of the Project; and
(b) linkages between 
beneficiaries
(rural female) and micro-credit lending institutions and 
line departments, estimated to cost $US
341,538 equivalent.
Part D.
Monitoring & Evaluation:
Conducting a tri-level M&E of the 
Activities under the Project by the: (a) NGOs; (b) Coordinator’s 
Office; and
(c) the Implementing Agency, estimated to cost $US 4,808 
equivalent.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Project through the Social 
Welfare Department and Punjab Literacy Commission, Government of
Punjab
(GoPunjab), with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly 
provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for that purpose;
(c) furnish all information covering the Project and 
the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank shall reasonably
request;
(d) from time to time exchange views with the Bank’s 
representatives on the progress and results of the Project; and
(e) 
take all necessary measures required to enable the Bank to visit the
territory of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for purposes related to
the Grant.
Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall,
if the Bank shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Bank promptly
upon completion of the Project a report, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, on the results and impact of the Project.
Page  3
3.
Procurement
3.1.
 Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, and consultants
’
services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the
provisions of  Attachment I to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity for such
insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or repair
such goods.
The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant
to the Project are at all times operated and maintained in accordance
with appropriate practices and that any repairs or renewals of such
facilities are promptly made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by 
the Bank on its books in the name of the Recipient
(the Grant 
Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section
4, for expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following Categories of items may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant and shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Project:
 Amount of the
%
of
Grant Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(in US$)
to be Financed
(1)
Services (CBO's,
277,400
100%
NGO's, consultants)
(a) Training
9,808
100%
(b) Workshops
1,945
100%
(c) Audits
3,847
100%
(2)
Goods
193,100
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100%
of local
expenditures
(ex-
factory cost) and
75%
of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)
Incremental
29,669
100%
operating costs
TOTAL
515,769
Page  4
For purposes of this paragraph, the term
"foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the
Islamic Republic of Pakistan for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of Pakistan; the term
"local 
expenditures" means any expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures; and the term incremental operating costs means salaries
of a coordinator, a data processor and an accountant assistant. All 
other operating costs consisting of fees, wages, allowances or other
emoluments of additional short-term staff or labor which is recurrent 
for purposes of the Project as well as incremental operating and
maintenance costs of vehicles, equipment and offices which GoPunjab
uses in carrying out the Project will be financed by the GoPunjab from
its own resources.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this
Letter Agreement by the Bank
(ii) on account of payments for any taxes 
levied by or in the territory of the Recipient;
(iii) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member
of the Bank or for goods produced in or services supplied from such
territories; or
(iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods if such payment or import, to the
Bank
’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United
Nations;
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after 
February
28, 2003 or such later date that the Bank shall establish by 
notice to the Recipient
(the Closing Date).; and 
(c)
If, in the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated 
to any of the items in the table in paragraph
4.2 above will be 
insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, the Bank may,
by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount
of the Grant then allocated to another item which, in the Bank’s 
opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the 
Grant Account, it shall deliver to the Bank a written application for
withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by the Bank.
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the 
Recipient by authorized official or such other person as he or she
shall have authorized in writing; and
(b) accompanied by such evidence 
in support of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign
withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first application
bearing his or her signature.
Each withdrawal application for an
amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in
form and substance to satisfy the Bank that the Recipient is entitled
to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is
to be used in the carrying out of the Project.
The Bank shall pay the
amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or
on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be 
Page  5
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
: (
a
)
under each contract for:  (i) services of consulting firms costing 
less than $10,000 equivalent; (ii) services of individual consultants 
costing less than $5,000 equivalent, (iii) goods costing less than 
$20,000 equivalent; (b) training and workshops; and (c) incremental 
operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the 
currency of the Grant.
The Bank, at the Recipient
’s request and 
acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency
of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall
be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Grant.
Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of
this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms
of another, such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient may 
open and maintain in United States Dollars a special deposit account
(the Special Account) in the National Bank of Pakistan on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and
prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank,
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and 
financial statements referred to in subparagraph
(a) above and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank,
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph
(a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and
(B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in 
accordance with subparagraph
(a) above, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year 
after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Bank’s representatives 
to examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and 
Page  6
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph
(b) above and that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the 
right of the Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant
Account if any of the following events has occurred and is continuing: 
(a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations 
herein specified; or
(b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the
Islamic Republic of Pakistan, to make withdrawals under any loan
agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with the
International Development Association shall have been suspended. 
6.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the 
right of the Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant
Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant
to the provisions of paragraph
6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, within six
months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Project. 
Attachment I
Procurement and Consultants
’
Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 
and August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and 
the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
National Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise stated in Part  C of this Section, goods may
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1
of
this Part B.
(a) Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be procured
Page  7
in bid packages to   attract national bidders
.
(b)
Improvement of Bidding Procedures
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad
consistency with the provision of Section
1
of the Guidelines:
(i)
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one 
national newspaper with a wide circulation, at least
30
days prior to the deadline for the submission of
bids;
(ii)
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in 
person, to all who are willing to pay the required
fee;
(iii) foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding 
and no preference of any kind shall be given to
national bidders in the bidding process;
(iv)
bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered 
firms;
(v)
qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding 
documents and, if a registration process is required,
a foreign firm declared as the lowest evaluated bidder
shall be given a reasonable opportunity of
registering, without let or hindrance;
(vi)
bids shall be opened in public in one location, 
immediately after the deadline for submission of bids;
(vii) bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a 
comparison with an official estimate without the prior
concurrence of the Bank;
(viii)contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
bidders;
(ix)
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with 
the lowest evaluated or any other bidders;
(x)
re-bidding shall not be carried out without the Bank's 
prior concurrence;
(xi)  contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of 
nationally negotiated rates;
(xii) all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance 
security as indicated in the bidding/contract 
Page  8
documents;
(xiii)evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence 
to the criteria disclosed in the bidding documents, in
a format and specified period agreed by the Bank;
(xiv) a bidder's Bid Security shall apply only to a specific 
bid, and a contractor's performance security shall
apply only to the specific contract under which it was
furnished;
(xv)
bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage 
premium or discount over the estimated cost;
(xvi) extension of bid validity beyond 60 days of original 
date shall not be obtained unless justified by
exceptional circumstances, and accompanied by Bank's
prior concurrence; and
(xvii)there shall not be any restrictions on the means of 
delivery of the bids.
Part C:
National Shopping
Goods for the Project estimated to cost less than $20,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs
3.5 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts,
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to
the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph
1
of Appendix
1
to the Guidelines. Procurement 
of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions
of said paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to the first contract for printing materials awarded
under Part B.2 of this Section I, Attachment I, and there after each 
contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $
20,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs
2
and
3
of Appendix
1
to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Page  9
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2
of this
Part, procedures set forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Consultants
’
Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the
"Guidelines: 
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", 
published by the Bank in January
1997
and revised in September
1997
and January
1999
(the Consultant Guidelines), and the following 
provisions of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant
Guidelines, paragraph
3
of Appendix
1
thereto, Appendix
2
thereto, and
the provisions of paragraphs
3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
of the preceding paragraph.
The short list of consultants for
services for under paragraph
1.2 (A) and (C) of the Annex, estimated 
to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than
$25,000
equivalent may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs
3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in
paragraph
5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs
5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under
the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
1
of Appendix
Page  10
1
to the Consultant Guidelines
.
Selection of all consultants
’
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said
paragraph
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to the first contract awarded under Part B and 
C.1 of this section, and thereafter each contract for the employment 
of consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of US$10,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
1, 2 (other than the 
third subparagraph of paragraph
2
(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract awarded under Part C.2 of 
this section and thereafter each contract for the employment of
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$5,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its
prior review and approval.
The contract shall be awarded only after
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph
2
of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph
4
of Appendix
1
to the
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories 1 and 2 
set forth in the table in paragraph
4.2 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph
4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent 
to US$50,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3
(a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or 
Page  11
requests for a deposit into the Special Account of an amount or
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall
furnish to the Bank requests for
deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as
the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Recipient shall
furnish to the Bank the documents and other
evidence required
pursuant to paragraph
4
of this
Attachment for the payment or
payments in respect
of which replenishment is requested.
On the
basis
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall
have requested
and as shall have been shown by said
documents and other evidence
to have been paid out of
the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank
from the Grant Account under the eligible item(s), and in 
the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special 
Account, the Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, 
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the
Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 
within the period of time specified in paragraph
5.1 (b) (ii) of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the
audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph
6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures as the
Page  12
Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient
.
Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or 
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2
of this Attachment;
or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the 
Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
