Report No. PID9583
Project Name                     Bulgaria-Agriculture Sector Adjustment (@)
Loan II
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Agriculture Adjustment
Project ID                       BGPE57926
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY
AND FORESTRY
55 Hr. Botev Boulevard, 1040 Sofia
Tel: 3592 951 5816
Fax: 3592 981 9173
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                October 10, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         February 12, 2001
Projected Board Date             May 29, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Agriculture in the Bulgarian Economy Agriculture continues to be an
important sector in the Bulgarian economy. The sector's share in GDP
--about 13 percent between 1991 and 1996-- is second only to that of the
sector in Romania (20 percent) in the CEEC. Agriculture's share in
employment, at around 20t ranks fourth within the CEEC. During the
economy-wide decline since 1991 the significance of agriculture has
increased in two ways. First, in contrast to the rest of the economy,
agriculture grew by 30 percent.    Second, agriculture has served as a
safety net to absorb some of the labor that has been released from other
sectors. Agriculture also is the dominant activity in the rural household
economy. Agricultural production is a very important part of total
household income, comprising about one-half of total income on average. In
Bulgaria, rural poverty is extensive, with the incidence of rural poverty
about twice as high as in urban areas. Poverty reduction in the country
as a whole thus requires a substantial emphasis on poverty reduction in
rural areas. This in turn depends on progress in generating broad-based
agricultural growth, as at least one component of a poverty reduction
strategy.Agriculture has considerable potential in Bulgaria. The country
has good natural growing conditions on the two-thirds of its area that are
not mountainous. Summer crops require irrigation, but water supply has
not in the past been a constraint. Historically the country was a
significant exporter of agricultural and processed products. Bulgarian
exports, however, are now in a poor position to compete in the global
economy.Agriculture continues to be plagued by a past legacy of central
planning and state-ownership. Dismantling the most visible symbols of the
past regime-- the agro-industrial complexes was given priority over other
reforms in the areas of pricing policy and privatization. Bulgaria's
agricultural trade regime has been characterized by tremendous instability
since 1991. As direct control mechanisms used under central planning were
reduced during the 1990s, there was a tendency to use trade policy for



very detailed, short-term intervention aimed at micro-managing domestic
supplies and prices. Pricing and trade policy during the transition was
driven by a preoccupation with providing low-priced domestically produced
food for the urban population. Prices of important food products were set
by the government until 1998. Bulgaria's tariff schedule shows a strong
cascading pattern, with higher tariffs on finished and processed products
than on primary products. One implication of cascading is the relatively
higher protection it affords to domestic processors, rather than primary
producers. Agricultural performance has hence been very weak in the
1990s, and this is undoubtedly a factor behind the relatively high levels
of rural poverty. In 1997, agricultural production stood at about 55
percent of its 1989 level. The share of agricultural and food industry
exports has declined in the overall share of total exports (from 20 to 14
percent). Imports of primary and food industry products are between 8 and
10 percent of total imports.
2. Objectives
ASAL II seeks to support broad-based rural growth thus contributing to
rural development and rural poverty reduction by improving the
competitiveness of the agriculture sector by laying a broad institutional
and regulatory basis for market development and maintaining the
significant progress made on the incentive regime over the past recent
years. The reforms supported under ASAL II will provide a framework
conducive to market-driven structural changes, a necessary condition for
sector growth. ASAL II also aims at supporting Bulgaria in the EU
accession process.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is the only institution able to engage GOB in a continuing and
broad policy dialogue in the agriculture sector, thus supporting Bulgaria
in the EU accession process.
4. Description
The ASAL II is a continuation in the reform efforts of ASAL I. It
provides foreign exchange for balance of payments support (US$50 million
equivalent). The loan is conditioned upon an extensive program of policy
reform aimed at developing a competitive, market based agricultural
sector. ASAL II supports policy reforms in the following seven areas: (i)
Agricultural Land Market Development, (ii) Cereal Marketing and Food
Security, (iii) Privatization of Agricultural and Food Enterprises, (iv)
Irrigation System Development, (v) Rural Finance (vi) Trade and Market
Regulations, and (vii) Forest Management.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               0
IBRD                     50
IDA
Total Project Cost       50
6. Implementation
ASAL II is being proposed as a single tranche operation. All agreed
reform-oriented actions will have taken place before the Loan is presented
to the Board. The program is being implemented primarily by the Ministry
of Agriculture and Forestry, but also by the Ministries of Health,
-2 -



Economy, and Finance.
7. Sustainability
The primary risk faced by ASAL II is of pressures for reversal, which
could occur due to political backlash that undermines support for the
reforms; persistence of an administrative control mentality among
decision makers and ministry staff (e.g. continued reliance on the
material balances approach as a policy tool); and responses to extreme
events affecting the agriculture sector, such as the current drought.
Reversal would most likely occur through some combination of these three
factors. The response to this risk is that government support for the
program is strong, as evidenced by its rapid implementation progress to
date in areas such as land policy, and privatization. This creates the
possibility for constructive discussion of any threatened reversals.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
In 1998, government initiated a broad range of agriculture policy reforms
with support of the Bank under the ASAL I. This single tranche adjustment
operation was the first major attempt by government in Bulgaria to carry
out far-reaching structural reforms in the agriculture sector since the
beginning of the economic transition in 1989. ASAL I, providing balance
of payment support in the amount of US$75.8 million, was approved in June
1999. The focus of ASAL I was on liberalizing the incentives regime for
agriculture by introducing major changes in terms of trade and price
policies; progressing with land restitution and titling, privatization of
agricultural enterprises; and introducing a set of institutional and
regulatory changes associated with agriculture credit, rural finance, and
the grain sector. ASAL I was implemented successfully. The policy regime
was liberalized and the regime was made substantially more stable.
Agro-industrial enterprise privatization also made substantial progress.
In the area of land policy, ASAL I was instrumental in moving ahead land
restitution (almost all agricultural land is now restituted) and land
titling (some 40 percent of agriculture land restituted has now also been
titled). Legislative changes were also introduced that reduced barriers
to market transfers. ASAL I also made progress in developing an
institutional and regulatory framework conducive to the long development
of the agriculture sector. It is now clear that these efforts must be
deepened and extended in order to hasten the development of market
processes. The government's efforts in liberalizing the incentive regime
as well as moving ahead on the land restitution and agriculture enterprise
privatization agenda under ASAL I have made significant progress by
addressing the backlog of agriculture sector reform and some of the most
important legacies of central planning. Much still needs to be done in
terms of establishing an institutional and regulatory framework in which
market-driven structural adjustments for the agriculture sector can
effectively take place.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        No environmental issues are foreseen in conjunction
with this policy-based operation. Agriculture in Bulgaria is not
associated with serious environmental problems. Significant environmental
impacts cannot be traced to the proposed policies or institutional
reforms. The major environmental concern of the country is industrial
- 3-



pollution associated with chemical, metallurgical, mining industries and
power sector. The proposed operation will be reviewed by the environment
unit of the ECA region. It is suggested to place this operation in
Environmental Category C.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Severin L. Kodderitzsch
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202/458-2164
Fax: 202/614-0698
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending April 13, 2001.
- 4 -



