Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24290
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-46300)
ON A
LOAN                                    C    °    Z     m
LOAN                         ~~~~~~~C/,  X    --I
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 50 MILLION EQUIVALENT                   °               z
TO THE REPUBLIC OF                                    _
o      Z~~>
BULGARIA                                             > D
FOR A                                              0    Uz
SECOND AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN                      t
June 28, 2002                                              0
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 24, 2002)
Currency Unit =  Bulgarian Lev (BGN)
1.00 BGN  =   US$ 0.50
US$ 1.00 =   1.99 BGN
1.00 BGN =    0.51 EUR
1.00 EUR =    1.95 BGN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-  -December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASAL    Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan  MAF     Ministry of Agriculture & Forestry
BGN     Bulgarian Lev                     MOE      Ministry of Economy
BNB    Bulgarian National Bank            MOF      Ministry of Finance
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy        OECD     Organization for Economic Cooperation and
CCB    Central Cooperative Bank                    Development
CEE    Central & Eastem European           PAL     Programmatic Adjustment Loan
Countries                           PW      Public Warehouse
CIS    Commonwealth of Independent        QAG      Quality Assurance Group
States                              QR      Quantitative Restriction
COM     Council of Ministers             SAPARD    Special Accession Program for Agriculture and
CY     Calendar Year                              Rural Development
EU     European Union                     SFA     State Fund Agriculture
GOB     Govemment of Bulgaria              SCC     Savings and Credit Cooperative
GVA     Gross Value Added                  SGR     Strategic Grain Reserves
ICR    Implementation Completion Report   SME      Small & Medium Enterprises
IMF    Intemational Monetary Fund          SOE     State Owned Enterprise
ISC    Irrigation Systems Company        SRWS      State Reserves & Wartime Stocks
LDP    Letter of Development Policy       VAT      Value Added Tax
LPW     Licensed Public Warehouse         WHR      Warehouse Receipts
LSP    Letter of Sector Policy            WUA      Water User Association
M&E     Monitoring & Evaluation
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:    Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Director:   Laura Tuck
Task Team Leader     Henry F. Gordon



BULGARIA
Second Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            10
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              23
6. Sustainability                                                                  24
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   26
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 26
9. Partner Comments                                                                28
10. Additional Information                                                         28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               34
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               35
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               38
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  39
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              40
Annex 8. Borrower Comments                                                         41
Annex 9. Land Market Development                                                   43
Annex 10. Trade Performance                                                        47






Project ID: P057926                                      Project Name: Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
II
Team Leader: Henry F. Gordon                             TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 28, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan II         L/C/TF Number: SCL-46300
Country/Department: BULGARIA                                            Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: AA - Agriculture Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   09/07/2000                             Effective:                   10/01/2001
Appraisal:  04/12/2001                               MTR:
Approval:  06/28/2001                             Closing: 07/01/2002          07/31/2002
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND
FORESTRY
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                            Johannes Linn
Country Manager:     Andrew N. Vorkink                        Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:      Laura Tuck                                Laura Tuck
Team Leader at ICR:  Henry Gordon                              Severin Kodderitzsch and Henry Gordon
ICR Primary Author:  Henry Gordon and Anna
Georgieva
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The development objective of the Bulgaria Second Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL II),
approved by the Bank Board on June 21, 2001, is to improve agricultural sector efficiency and
competitiveness, thereby promoting Country Assistance (CAS) objectives of broad based rural growth,
poverty reduction, and European Union (EU) accession. This is accomplished through a program of policy
reform and institutional change in land markets, cereals storage, the extemal trade regime, the irrigation
system, and forestry.
ASAL II comprises the second phase of a medium term reform program laid out in the policy matrix of its
predecessor operation, ASAL I, which was approved by the Bank Board in June 1999. As is required in a
single tranche adjustment operation, all conditions of ASAL II were met before Board presentation (see
table in Annex 1 for a complete list of conditions).
Attempts at agricultural sector reform in the early 1990s - before implementation of ASAL I reforms in the
period 1998-1999 - were halting and largely ineffective. During this period, the Ministry of Agriculture
maintained a rhetorical commitment to reform, but in fact pursued interventionist policies that changed
frequently and unexpectedly. Adding to these problems, most prominent in the areas of land policy, trade,
and grain storage, were delays in privatization and irrigation reform, which occurred due to resistance from
vested interests. As a result, the following baseline conditions existed in 1996 and 1997, the period just
preceding implementation of ASAL I reforms:
*   Land restitution was blocked, with only about 67% of land restituted, and with most restituted
holdings lacking proper ownership documents or title (an added problem was uncertainty about
what constituted a title). Since farmers had to pay for improvements made by the state on any land
received, many of the non-land assets received (e.g. irrigation infrastructure) were tom down in
order to avoid payment.
*   Private cereals markets were undeveloped, with state domination of some activities (e.g. storage)
and instability was high due to, among other factors, erratic purchase and sales operations of the
State Grain Reserves. Private markets were costly and risky in the absence of a functioning
warehouse receipts system and other institutional supports such as a grades and standards system,
reliable contract enforcement, simple standardized contracts, and market information.
*   Agricultural privatizations up to 1997 were carried out partially and haphazardly, emphasizing
divestment of large quantities of movable assets, especially livestock. Only 26% of long term.
assets in the Ministry of Agriculture & Forestry (MAF) privatization portfolio were privatized.
*   The irrigation sector remained unreformed, with the state company Irrigation Systems Company
(ISC) resisting restructuring and blocking transfer of on-farm assets to new private landowners.
*   Outreach of rural finance institutions remained extremely limited with dominance by state lenders
and borrowers. The legal and organizational framework required for development of private
financial markets, including collateral laws to allow pledging of fixed and movable assets, suffered
from serious gaps so that potential lenders found it unattractive to lend in rural areas.
*   Instability in the trade regime was a serious problem, with trade legislation being constantly
revised, and govemment micro-managing perceived commodity market imbalances through
- 2 -



quantitative restrictions, unexpected tariff changes, and price interventions.
The economy as a whole suffered from lack of reform progress during the early and mid-1990s, and the
accumulated result was an economic collapse in 1996, accompanied by widespread bank failures. This led
to the replacement of the existing regime by a newly elected, reform-oriented government in 1997. The
Bank began discussions in mid-1997 with the new government on the main outlines of an agricultural
reform program aimed at establishing a market-oriented policy framework that would support sector
growth and establishment of a functioning rural market economy, a prerequisite for EU membership.
ASAL I reforms began in 1998 and were successfully completed in mid-1999, when the 71.12 million Euro
loan was approved by the Bank Board. Reforms included a mix of traditional price and trade liberalization
and privatization measures, along with selected measures to improve the institutional environment and legal
framework (e.g. warehouse receipts legislation, passage of a cadastre and registration law, and
improvement in procedures for formation and operation of private water users associations). The main
reform areas covered included land policy, cereals marketing, agricultural privatization (including
irrigation), rural finance, and trade and market regulation policies. ASAL I was a single tranche operation
that constituted the first phase of a medium term policy framework, outlined in the ASAL I policy matrix.
The Government began implementation of some of the medium term measures after ASAL I was approved
in June 1999, for example it maintained forward progress on privatization. This was a clear indication of
the Government of Bulgaria's (GOB's) continued commitment to the sector reforms, and it provided a
strong justification for a push to complete and deepen reforms under a follow-up operation, ASAL II. The
starting point for preparation of ASAL H was the medium term program outlined in ASAL I, which
focused primarily on completion of ASAL I reforms (e.g. land restitution and titling, and privatization).
Preparation of the ASAL II policy matrix began with initiation of analytical work in key areas where more
in-depth work was needed to define specific conditionalities. Studies were commissioned on Strategic
Grain Reserves management, rural finance policy, land market development, and food safety, among others
(see Annex 7 of the ASAL II President's Report for a list of background papers commissioned). In
addition, the preparation team benefited from completion of a Bank forestry study in early 2000 which
indicated the need for a number of significant policy and institutional changes in the sector. This led to
discussions with Govemment on the addition of a forestry component to ASAL II.
Broadly speaking, the studies carried out in preparation of ASAL II revealed the need to complete ASAL I
refornns, but also to continue the move beyond standard liberalization and privatization reforms toward
measures to build market institutions. Examples of the latter included improvements in State Grain
Reserves management; development of an indemnity fund for the warehouse receipts system; passage of a
law on water users associations and statutes of a new Water Management Agency; and formation of a
GOB council on food safety. Specific actions to improve forest management were also outlined.
The proposed measures were widely discussed with agriculture sector stakeholders during preparation of
the loan. Meetings took place as early as May 1999 at rural finance workshops held throughout the
country; discussions of the agriculture section of the Country Economic Memorandum with Government in
September 1999 and civil society stakeholders in May 2000; and discussions in a June 2000 workshop on
EU Accession, held in Sofia. At the Sofia workshop, possible support by ASAL II of Bulgaria's SAPARD
program was discussed (SAPARD is the EU-funded Special Accession Program for Agriculture and Rural
Development). ASAL II Negotiations were held in May 2001 and the 55.8 million Euro loan was approved
by the Bank Board in June 2001.
-3 -



Despite the Government's commitment to reforms, neither the formulation nor the negotiation of the
conditions proved smooth at all times. Some of the issues under discussion such as Strategic Grain
Reserves (SGR) policy were deemed sensitive by the Government. Others such as rural finance, and
irrigation, required more in-depth analysis than originally anticipated. The preparation team did benefit
from the fact that consultations occurred throughout the preparation period, resulting in support for
proposed reform measures by non-government organizations and the private business community. For
example, (1) farmers associations protested against the existence of high fertilizer import duties, the
reduction of which were fiercely resisted by the GOB; (2) private water users expressed strong preference
for ASAL II irrigation measures aimed at clarifying and limiting the role of Government in the sector and
supporting transfer of on-farm assets to water users association; and (3) private grain storage bodies
supported actions to increase predictability and transparency of SGR operations. The proposed reform
measures also benefited from the independent efforts of other donors. These included bilateral donors such
as USAID, which has funded development of a warehouse receipts system, as well as intemational
financial institutions such as the IMF and the EU, the latter through EU Phare funded land projects.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable
3.3 Original Components:
The loan involves comprehensive reforms affecting land market development, cereals marketing policy,
agriculture enterprise privatization, irrigation institutions and legislation, rural finance, trade and market
regulation, and forestry. The reforms represent a logical continuation and completion of some ASAL I
measures, and a second-stage refinement of others.
This section provides background on each component, and a summary of objectives, and conditionalities
for each (see Annex I for a full listing - all conditions were completed by the time of ASAL II Board).
Complementary activities of other Bank operations are also described. All components but forestry were
included in ASAL I. Irrigation measures were included in ASAL I as a part of the privatization
component, rather than as a separate component.
Component 1: Rural Land Market Development
Good and fertile land is one of the greatest assets in Bulgarian agriculture. Most of the population now
owns land, due to the restitution process carried out during the 1990s, however this seldom brings
substantial economic benefit to the owners as the land market remains undeveloped. One of the reasons for
this is the length and difficulty of land restitution, which attempted to restitute plots on real old boundaries
as they existed before the Second World War. Because the old boundaries were so difficult to identify, and
because viable registration systems had not been established, new owners could not conclusively
demonstrate ownership rights. Many lawsuits occurred, some between heirs of original owners.
Restitution resulted in fragmented and small holdings, which has seriously reduced agricultural production
and productivity.
The aim of the component is to strengthen security of land ownership and stimulate an agricultural land
market by substantially completing agriculture land restitution and titling; passing an adequate Law on
Cadastre and Property Registration; and implementing an accessible land information system.
These measures are closely tied to the activities of a Cadastre and Registration Project, which was prepared
in parallel with ASAL II. Another Bank operation, the Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL), expected to
go to Board in CY02, contains conditions for improvement of the legal framework for lending against land,
- 4 -



including changes in the Civil Procedure Code to reduce impediments to foreclosure, and more general
improvements in the Mortgage Law. These issues were all highlighted in preparatory analysis leading up
to ASAL II, but it was felt that they needed to be implemented over a longer time frame, which explains
their inclusion in the PAL.
Component 2: Cereals Marketing and Food Security
Two problems have plagued cereals market development in recent years, one being the continued ad hoc
interventions of the State Grain Reserves. These have ostensibly been undertaken to rotate stocks, but due
to their size and timing, they have had the effect of compressing seasonal prices and increasing short term
price instability, thereby reducing private storage incentives.
A second problem has been the absence of key market institutions such as a warehouse receipts system,
which is desperately needed given the lack of security in off-farm storage. The system will not emerge
quickly without some level of government support and oversight (e.g. in the licensing and inspection of
warehouses).
The aim of this component is to support development of an active private cereals market while reducing
the cost and improving the effectiveness of the government'sfood security measures through the state
reserves.
State Grain Reserves
The issue of the State Reserves was the most sensitive encountered during ASAL II. The full name of the
entity having authority for management of the State Grain Reserves is Chief Directorate for "State
Reserves and Wartime Stocks" (SRWS), transformed into a state agency in May 2001. The activities of
the SRWS are considered to be a matter of national security. The supply of wheat grain on the domestic
market has been an especially sensitive point with the Bulgarian government since 1997 when a reported
wheat and bread shortage is widely believed to have led to the fall of the government then in power. An
aim of governments since then has been to ensure enough bread supply from domestic production sources
to avoid wheat imports, and to avoid having domestic prices rise above import parity.
While it has not been official policy to use the SRWS to support these aims, work carried out in
preparation of ASAL II showed convincingly that the interventions of the SRWS have consistently
prevented wheat price increases in 6 months before harvest, preventing imports and depriving farmers of
higher market prices, while hindering the development of private storage and trade. In addition, the ad hoc
nature of SRWS interventions on the grain market has added to the uncertainty, lack of stability and
non-transparency of market operations. Market agents interviewed during preparation of ASAL II found it
particularly disconcerting that SRWS purchases and sales were not based on well understood rules. From
the perspective of some in Government, the accountability of the SRWS to the Council of Ministers, which
has ultimate authority for the SRWS, was weak. Data on stocks and operations were not readily available,
nor reliable.
With the aim of reducing to a minimum the negative impact of SR WS operations on private storage
markets, it was agreed during ASAL II negotiations that a decree would be introduced specifying clear
guidelinesfor SRWS grain rotation and information disclosure.
These measures are complemented by follow-up actions in the PAL, which progressively shift State
Reserves stocks to private licensed warehouses, and change the legal status of the SRWS to that of a public
- 5 -



institution subject to full public disclosure requirements.
Warehouse Receipts
Work on the introduction of the warehouse receipts system in Bulgaria started in 1997 with a survey of the
grain sector sponsored by USAID. Two major constraints for grain producers and traders were identified.
The first was inadequate access to short-term financing for working capital. Most producers could not
meet commercial banks' requirements for collateral. The second impediment was the lack of a
well-regulated and guaranteed system of grain storage allowing depositors to safely store their products
while waiting for a better market price. The Warehouse Receipts (WHR) system was seen as offering a
partial solution to these problems. USAID provided technical assistance through the non-governmental
organization ACDI/VOCA to develop the system, while ASAL II worked on implementation of regulations
necessary for implementation of the system.
The WHR system is not traditional in Europe, but it presents an alternative to the EU model of supporting
commodity market prices and providing financing through government intervention policies and special
commodity programs. The system is especially important for markets facing difficulties with storage
insecurity, and with loan collateralization, which cause small and medium producers difficulty in obtaining
credit.
The new Grain Trade and Storage law, passed in July 1998, introduced two types of licensed storage
facilities: public warehouses (PWs), issuing warehouse receipts, and licensed grain storage facilities. The
reliability of the WHR system was enhanced by licensing requirements (minimum capital, adequate storage
capacity etc.), the establishment of an Indemnity Fund by the warehouses, and the legal features of the
warehouse receipt defined in the Commercial Law.
With the aim of simulating a more secure storage system, and increasing lending to warehouses, ASAL II
requires legal and regulatory improvements to advance development of the system. These include
adoption of regulations for establishment of an indemnity fund; and adoption of regulations requiring
full and public on-site disclosure of the conditions and limits of Licensed PWs and Licensed Grain
Stores.
Component 3: Privatization of Agricultural and Food Enterprises
The process of privatization speeded up considerably after 1997 as ASAL 1 was being prepared. The
responsibility for privatization was split between the Ministry of Economy, which dealt with most food
processing enterprises, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, which dealt with farms, as well as
flour mills, and feed and seed companies.
The main aim ofASAL IIprivatization reforms is to finish the agriculture andfood industry
privatizations started under ASAL I, setting targets for substantial completion ofprivatization of milling
enterprises, seeds companies, storage companies, the food industry portfolio of the Ministry of Economy,
and enterprises in the MAFprivatization program.
The aforementioned PAL has an important role in completing privatization for the few agriculture-related
SOEs not touched by ASAL II. These include Bulgartabac; Biochim, and the state insurance institute DZI,
which has an important role in crop insurance. More importantly, the PAL has a strong emphasis on
improving the regulatory, tax, trade, and dispute resolution environment for Bulgarian businesses, many of
which are small and operate in rural areas. The PAL reforms are important for the sector because they
-6 -



reduce entry barriers, and the future of rural enterprise lies just as much with new entrants as with
established enterprises that have recently been privatized.
Component 4: Irrigation System Development
Of the 1.3 million hectares under irrigation before 1989, only 5% of this area is currently irrigated
according to the MAF. A considerable amount of equipment has deteriorated to the point of being unusable
during the past decade, or has been destroyed. Although the technical condition of major constructions
such as dams is good, about 80% on the inner-channel irrigation network does not function. To add to this,
the past few years have seen continuous drought, heightening concerns about water risk. In the main grain
growing region of Dobruja where rainfed crops are predominant, the drought halved yields in 2001.
The aim of this component is to stimulate an environment for efficient public and private investment in
the irrigation subsector by improving the regulatory and institutionalframeworkfor both public and
private sectors. This involves preparation of an Irrigation Sector Development Strategy and
implementation of laws and regulations that support (I) formation of water users associations, and (2)
establishment of a new public sector Water Management Agency to replace the Irrigation Systems
Company (ISC). The WMA will implement public irrigation policies, and supervise regional water
management companies.
Component 5: Rural Finance
Savings and Credit Cooperatives
Access to credit is a significant barrier to starting a small business and generating self-employment in
Bulgaria, and SMEs are considered to be an important source of current and future growth. At the same
time, micro-finance schemes are distrusted by banks and the banking authorities. Commercial banks see
credit cooperatives as potential competitors, some people associate them with pyramids, and others
associate them with the cooperatives of the communist era. Commercial banks for their part tend to avoid
small rural borrowers since maintaining an extensive network and giving small loans is expensive and
brings low returns. Many banks lack the skills and infrastructure to adequately appraise risky
rural/agricultural projects, while potential borrowers have difficulty providing collateral, proving
creditworthiness, and preparing business plans. Furthermore small businesses frequently tend to be
unregistered due to the high tax and social security burden. All of this makes the development of
micro-finance difficult. It is nonetheless necessary for the development of small business and farms.
With the aim of promoting sound depositor protection, governance and oversight for SCCs, conditions
agreed under ASAL II seek to ensure that any legislative steps to promote a credit cooperative system
provides adequate and effective regulation.
In preparation for ASAL H, Bank consultants provided substantial commentary on laws being drafted by
local stakeholders groups, and specific recommendations for emerging legislation.
State Fund Agriculture
Subsidies to producers and exporters are minimal in Bulgaria, and the net effect of government intervention
in the past decade (taking account of trade as well as subsidy policies) appears to have been a taxation of
agriculture rather than its subsidization. The sector has been decapitalized over time, with little new
investment and limited credit access for farmers. In 1995 a government-sponsored attempt to channel
- 7 -



credit to farmers began with the establishment of the State Fund Agriculture (SFA). However, SFA loans
were found to be poorly targeted and only weakly effective. In 1998 the SFA approved 441 invesbrnent
projects, but less than half were funded. With the change of management in early 1999 the SFA became
more active in stimulating bank loans through guarantee schemes that were thought through more fully, and
better targeted than the direct loans schemes of the past. The SFA also stated its intention to significantly
improve loan collections.
Preparation work for ASAL II shows that the legal framework for secured transactions has greatly
improved (due to support from USAID) and that the legislation for land mortgage needs attention but is
functional, and moreover is likely to improve as stakeholders continue their discussions on revisions to the
law. Despite the banking system collapse of 1996/1997, which induced great caution in bank lending,
commercial banks are beginning to increase their loans to the agricultural sector from a very low base.
ASAL II conditions aim to effecting a phased shift by SFA to more commercial terms for its loans, with a
reduction in lending volumes, so that private ruralfinance activities are not crowded out. This is
complemented by actions to divest SFA shares in the Central Cooperative Bank.
A concerted effort to improve rural financial intermediation is required in Bulgaria. ASAL II has taken
steps in this direction. The Bulgaria PAL also takes some follow-up steps through conditions requiring
changes to the Mortgage Law and the Civil Procedure Code.
Component 6: Trade and Market Regulations
The chief aim of the trade and market regulation component is to maintain and improve the liberalized
domestic and international trade regime establish under ASAL I in agriculture products (primary
agricultural and agro-industrial products, including processed goods and products), while improving
regulations aimed at ensuring consumer food safety standards compatible with the EU
Food Safety
Newly privatized food processing enterprises are experiencing difficulty in adapting to EU standards and in
obtaining reliable raw material supplies of adequate quality. Few slaughterhouses and dairies are allowed
to export to the EU. Small enterprises from the shadow economy, mostly in the dairy and meat sector tend
to disregard hygiene and sanitation standards. Companies not complying with established norms are
increasingly being closed down, following inspections and routine checks of the National Veterinary
Service. The country is still free from the BSE disease, as livestock traditionally graze, and there is
effective control over other diseases in the animal farm sector. Live animal exports to the EU have been
allowed since August 2001 after the last cases of blue tongue were registered in 1999.
ASAL II supports adequate food safety regulations and enforcement capacity - compatible with
development of an active SME sector - by establishing a council on food safety and food action plan,
under the provisions of a recently passed Law on Food Safety.
Seed and Planting Materials
Before ASAL I, the GOB required that all imported seed varieties undergo a long testing period supervised
by the MAF. This deprived local farmers of the ability to choose among the great variety of seeds
available on intemational and regional markets. Under ASAL I, the Council of Ministers passed an
ordinance allowing automatic registration within Bulgaria of seeds listed in the EU Common Catalogue.
- 8 -



ASAL II seeks to improve seed choice and increase farmers 'yields by having the automatic registration
process incorporated in a law on seeds and planting materials, stipulating that plant genetic material
listed under the EU Common Catalogue will be automatically listed under the Bulgarian National Seed
Catalogue without any further seed testing requirements (other than for phytosanitary reasons).
Fertilizer imports
By the late 1 990s, the use of fertilizers on Bulgarian farns had declined by more than 80% from the 1 980s.
Of this, nitrogen use dropped by about 70% while phosphate and calcium fertilizer declined by 98% and
99%, respectively. Fertilizer use is insufficient in volume. The use is unbalanced, which affects
productivity, since only nitrogen fertilizer is used. The three remaining fertilizer plants in the country are
not price competitive compared with imports. However, an increase in imports has been prevented through
import tariffs, which to aim to protect uncompetitive domestic fertilizer producers. ASAL I reduced
disincentives to fertilizer use by lowering tariff levels from 45% to 35%.
ASAL II aims to further improve incentives forfertilizer use with a reduction in the import tarifffrom
35% to 25%.
Import Tariff Exemptions
Prior to 1997 the foreign trade regime was very unstable with temporary exemptions or bans introduced ad
hoc, for both imports and exports. This added to market instability and hindered trade. Since ASAL I, the
foreign trade regirne and customs regime have been approved in the end of each calendar year for the
coming year, and the government has generally refrained from the abrupt introduction of temporary
measures during the year. The GOB has remained in conformity with its international agreements.
ASAL II aims to maintain stability in the trade regime, and to this end stipulates that temporary import
duty exemptions on grains imports will continue to be avoided.
Component 7: Forestry Sector
By June 2001, 89% of the forest land slated for restitution (or 637,000 hectares (ha)) was returned to
former owners. The process is expected to be completed by the end of 2002. Forests are returned to
former owners which include private individuals, municipalities, religious organizations, schools,
cooperatives and commercial companies. Forest land returned to individuals totals 310,000 ha, accounting
for 54% of all forest area. Forests restored to municipalities comprise 231,000 ha, or 41% of total area.
The restitution of forests leads to problems similar to those with farm land restitution. The ensuing
fragmentation of land makes forest management difficult and leads to unsustainable forest use and lack of
access to the small individual plots in forests.
The forestry sector is important for the national economy providing for the export of products such as
wood, mushrooms, berries and the development of tourism and hunting. Besides their overall importance
for the preservation of the environment, with climate change and severe water shortages in many regions,
forests also protect water availability. The forest cover of upper watersheds and forest stands on protective
strips along the irrigation network is now not sufficient to forestall siltation of riverbeds, channels and
water reservoirs. In the past two years cases of arson have been frequent, leading to forest fires.
-9-



The aim of this component is to establish a competitive export and domestic trade regime for the forestry
sector while ensuring sustainable production and definition of appropriate roles for public and private
sectors. ASAL II establishes a working group to develop forest certification and inspection procedures;
it requires that forest works in state forest be contracted to private companies on the basis of competitive
tenders; and it gives legal status to groups offorest owners tojointly manage restitutedforests. Finally,
under ASAL 11 a new regulation was passed concerning contracting offorest works on the basis of
competitive tenders.
The Bulgaria Forestry Project, currently under preparation, will build on policy and institutional changes
initiated under ASAL II through intensive technical support and investment. Other donors have also shown
interest in providing assistance to the forestry sector and cooperation is under way through the Global
Alliance, and with UNDP, GTZ and the Swiss Development Cooperation Office.
3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The QAG panel assessed ASAL II as a solid "satisfactory," while the environmental and policy and
institutional aspects were rated "highly satisfactory." It was noted that the operation's objectives are clear,
there is Borrower ownership of the program and the reform program is underpinned by a strong sector
analysis. According to the QAG review report in August, 2001 the operation is likely to meet its
development objectives, as did the predecessor ASAL I, and it is likely to be sustainable over the long tern.
Noted positive features of the operation include effective support from country and sector managers, a
strong task team, solid analytical work, strong stated commitment by the govemment and consistency with
the CAS and Bank sector strategy. The review also noted the articulation of a sound policy for rural
development, demonstrated govemment capacity to implement the reform program (as evidenced in part by
the prior success of ASAL I, and in part by a continuation of reform momentum and action after ASAL I
was approved by the Board) and the emphasis on institutional changes as well as standard policy reforms.
Improvements in the area of monitoring and evaluation are recommended although it was conceded that this
is difficult in a one tranche operation, where outcomes may take years to materialize. It was observed that
improvements in M&E would assist especially in the monitoring and analysis of the social impact of
reforms.
The ICR team agrees with the QAG assessment, which is quite positive overall. It also agrees on the need
for improvements in M&E, starting with specification of a logframe during preparation, and extending to
definition of baseline indicators for monitoring social as well as agriculture sector progress.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The previous section gave background on each project component and the conditionalities within each.
This section examines whether ASAL II objectives where actually achieved. It starts in Section 4.1 with
broadest objectives relating to the CAS and then narrows the focus to project outcomes in Section 4.1.2. In
Section 4.3, achievement of project outputs is assessed. A subsequent section on sustainability (Section 6)
assesses whether reform momentum is continuing after ASAL II.
- 10 -



4.1.1. CAS Objectives and Sector Performnance
The Bulgaria CAS of May 2002 stresses the need to raise efficiency and competitiveness in agriculture,
and to improve income earning opportunities for the rural population. These are a necessary condition for
poverty reduction in rural areas. This section examines recent evidence on agriculture productivity, and
rural poverty.
Agriculture sector performance. Agriculture sector performance in the three years leading up to ASAL I
and 11 (1995-1997) is compared here with performance in the subsequent three years (1998-2001) during
which ASAL I and II were implemented. While this does not allow a cause-and-effect assessment, it does
give insight into the movement of indicators that ASAL II is intended to improve. Table 1 provides
selected sector indicators.
Performance in agriculture is strongly affected by, and affects, economy-wide growth. Table 1 shows that
GDP growth was strongly positive in the 1998-2001 period (row 2), but GDP levels did not increase
sufficient to compensate for the economic collapse of 1996, and they are still slightly below (-1.7%) the
average level pre-ASAL levels (row 1).
The data indicate that the agriculture sector performed significantly better than the economy as a whole
between the two periods, with a 15% increase in value added (row 3). This occurred in the context of a
50% reduction in state support to agriculture (row 6). Agricultural Gross Value Added (GVA) shows an
even larger inter-period increase in private agricultural GVA (18.5%), which contrasts with the dramatic
53% fall in state-produced agricultural GVA (rows 4 and 5).
Since employment in agriculture was relatively stable, falling by 1.7% between periods (row 11), value
added per worker must have increased, given the recorded rise in agricultural GVA. Consumer welfare
was broadly preserved with a 2.7% increase in average calorie consumption (row 10), although population
subgroups may have suffered a reduction in consumption (poverty status is discussed in the following
section).
Growth of agricultural value added in the reform period was evidently driven by domestic demand, since
exports compressed drastically during the reform period (row 7), and exporters were unable to penetrate
new markets (EU) or recapture traditional ones (CIS, Mediterranean). To some degree, the performance of
the three to four years following the 1996/1997 collapse can also be considered a period of relatively rapid
"catch-up" typical of periods following sharp economic downturns. This explanation is given added weight
by the discussion of ASAL II outcomes below, which give a decidedly mixed picture (Section 4.2). While
market responses to reform have indeed occurred, they have not been particularly rapid nor widespread,
and production performance has been weak. It is also possible that there is some overstatement of growth
in agricultural GVA data.



Table 1: Ag. Sector Performance, Pre vs. Post ASAL
Indicator       Unit of          95-97      98-00      % change
Measure         average     average
I   GDP             BGN million, at  18,606     18,284     -1.7%
constant 1997
_______ ____ _ prices_                     _ _ _ _
2   GDP growth      Avg. % change   -8.6        4.1
3   Agricultural    BGN million, at  3,473      3,996       15%
Gross Value     constant 1997
Added (Ag.      prices
GVA)
4   Ag. GVA,        BGN million, at  3,317      3,931       18.5%
private sector  constant 1997
prices          _ _ _ _ _ __             _ _ _ _
5   Ag. GVA,        BGN million, at  21         10         -53.9%
public sector   constant 1997
prices
6   MAF Ag.         % of GVA         2          1          -50%
support
7   Agrifood exports in million US$  607        400         -33%
8   Crop share in ag  %              49         48          -2.8%
output
9   Livestock share  %               45         47          3.3%FLA
in ag output                                           T
10  Consumption     daily calories  2,439       2,504      2.7%
per capita
11  Employment in   000             795         783        -1.4%
agriculture,
average
12  Ag. employment  %               21.4        21.6        1.1%
share in labor
force
Source: World Bank, National Statistical Institute (NSI)
Rural poverty. Recent analysis of rural poverty trends provides an important corrective to the above
picture of substantially improved agricultural sector performance. The recently concluded Bulgaria
poverty assessment compared urban and rural poverty patterns, using surveys from 1995, 1997 and 2001,
which span the pre and post ASAL periods. It shows that while urban areas have almost recovered from the
1996 economic crisis, the rate of change in rural incomes, which still positive, has been much slower.
Meanwhile, income distribution within rural areas has worsened. As a consequence, rural poverty rates
have increased relative to urban rates, and are now four times higher (23.7% compared with 5.9).
Initial results of the poverty analysis show that a decline in agricultural income is the primary factor
explaining rural poverty (reduced off farm wages is the second factor). As in many other countries in the
region, agriculture plays a crucial safety net function for small subsistence and semi subsistence
households. In Bulgaria the poorest rural households tend to be those lacking the land or labor to generate
food production for their own consumption. It should be emphasized that most commercial agricultural
- 12 -



enterprises are not captured by the household survey (which may explain in the part the large discrepancy
between sector value added performance and rural household incomes. The data on sectoral value added
does not separate the agricultural performance of commercial firms from that of private households).
The reasons for the slow pace of rural recovery are difficult to determine from household survey sources,
due to lack of detailed agricultural production data. The relevant factors may include reduced labor input,
or idling of land (the latter is evidently a significant phenomenon and is documented in the survey). They
may also involve declining efficiency of resource use due to increased subsistence orientation, and the high
costs and inefficiencies in product and input markets.
To summarize, the above evidence indicates that the agricultural sector has grown during the reform
perliod, but rural income growth has been disturbingly slow, and rural poverty has persisted. Such an
outcome may occur if the benefits of agricultural growth are skewed to higher income rural residents and
large commercial farms, with no beneficial spread effects to poorer households. The main lesson for this
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is that sector operations must find ways to induce broad based
growth, or be complented by other types of operations that do so, for example parallel, complementary
investments and programs that increase the participation of potentially viable rural households in the
growth process. Some rural households (the elderly, the extreme poor) may never be economically viable,
and are more likely to be assisted by a social protection program rather than an ASAL.
It should be noted that the ASAL II land component did further a form of rural social protection by
speeding restitution and titling, thereby increasing access of rural households to small plots. The poverty
assessment stresses that ownership of land is one important factor differentiating non-poor from poor rural
households.
4.1.2 Achievement of Outcomes
ASAL II outcomes (development objectives) contribute to higher level CAS objectives. In this section
development objectives for each ASAL II component are defined, and progress against indicators is
evaluated for each. The development objectives are defined as follows:
1. Land markets: progress toward an active land market.
2. Cereals marketing: increase in competitive private storage and marketing for cereals.
3. Privatization: more productive agro-industrial and processing firms.
4. Irrigation: more efficient management of irrigation infrastructure.
5. Rural finance: increased provision of finance to rural areas by private providers.
6. Trade: increased competitiveness of tradable commodities.
7. Forestry: improved public and private sector capacity for forest management.
These outcome ratings are quantified on a four point scale from Highly Unsatisfactory (l) to Highly
Satisfactory (4) and are aggregated in Table 2. A weighted sum is computed to determine the overall
outcome performance. Definition of the weights is based on the authors' best judgment of the relative
importance of each component in the reform program, including an assessment of the extent and depth of
reform in each component. It can be seen that the component dealing with land, cereals, privatization and
finance all receive about the same weight (approximately 20%), while irrigation, trade and forestry each
have about half this weight.
The general assessment of the ASAL II outcome is Satisfactory, with an overall score of 2.79 (this is below
3, which is the score for Satisfactory, but it is well above the mid-point between 2 and 3. A score around
2.5 would be considered marginally satisfactory). These evaluations are explained in the following
- 13 -



paragraphs. For each component, we identify a development (outcome) objective, an indicator for that
objective, and changes in the indicator during ASAL II.
Table 2: Outcome Ratings
Land Market Development      3               0.20           0.60
Cereals Marketing & Food     3               0.20           0.60
Security
Privatization of Ag. & Food  2.5             0.20           0.50
Enterprises
Irrigation System Development  2             0.06           0.12
Rural Finance                3               0.18           0.54
Trade & Market Regulations   2.5             0.10           0.25
Forestry Sector Development  3               0.06           0.18
Total                                        1.00           2.79
Explanation of Outcome Rating Scale
Highly satisfactory               4
Satisfactory                      3
Unsatisfactory                    2
Highly unsatisfactory
1.     Land Market Development
Development objective: progress toward an active and competitive land market.
Primary indicator(s): an increase in the number and volume of land transactions along with increased land
prices.
Change to ASAL II: In the past ten years, during which the restitution process.was ongoing but
incomplete, land sales were rare, although leasing transactions were increasing (this was first recorded in
1997 through a survey commissioned by ASAL I). The amount of land sold is still small, focusing
particularly on Dobruja and eastem regions, however it is encouraging that the rate of increase in
transactions is very high. A survey of the most recent data on land transactions (Annex 7) shows an
increase in land deals from 10,710 in 1999/2000 to 31,324 in 2000/2001 (+192%); an increase in hectares
sold over the same period from 18,243 to 59,306 (+225%). There was a modest increase in nominal land
prices from 1,370 BGN/ha to 1,410 BGN/ha (+4%). Bulgaria's inflation is minimal, and in real terms, this
represents no change or a slight fall.
Rating: Satisfactory.
2.     Cereals Marketing and Food Security
Development objective: increase in private cereals storage and marketing activity.
Primary indicator(s): increased number of active licensed public warehouses.
Change to ASAL II: Licensed public warehouses eligible to issue warehouse receipts must meet minimum
standards for physical and financial viability. The number of LPWs in 1999 was five, with a total capacity
- 14 -



of 98,000 mt. This rose to 21 (capacity 230,000 mt) in 2000 and to 32 by August 2001 (reaching a
capacity of 346,235 mt). By April 2002, total capacity had reached almost 500,000 mt. A field trip in
April 2002 revealed that most of the new operators are active traders (rather than passive collectors of
storage fees), and many are investing in maintenance and rehabilitation of their facilities, and in new
equipment (e.g. driers).
Rating: Satisfactory
3.     Privatization of Agricultural and Food Enterprises
Development objective: improved productivity and investment in agro-industry and agro-processing.
Primary indicator(s): more active market entry and investment among agro-industrial and processing
firms.
Change to ASAL I1: The team's impressions from a week long evaluation in April 2002 are mixed.
Examples of market entry and dynamism of agri-food enterprises can be observed, but appear limited.
Increased market entry and investment is most noticeable in the seeds sector, due to regulatory changes and
privatization (see discussion of the trade component, below, for further details). Increased activity among
meat and dairy fimns can be observed. This was also documented in the OECD report (2002) "Bulgaria:
Review of Agricultural Policies". These tendencies are not, however, widespread across commodity
subsectors. The overall impression of extremely slow progress - even stagnation - remains, despite the
substantial completion of privatization. Lack of term finance (necessary for investments required to
upgrade quality and export) and regulatory obstacles for small businesses constrain market development.
Rating: Borderline Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory (2.5)
4.     Irrigation Systems Development
Development objective: improved farmer/user management of irrigation infrastructure.
Primary indicator(s): increased formation of active Water Users Associations (WUAs) and initiation of
the transfer of on-farm irrigation assets.
Change to ASAL HI: The first WUAs were established under a Bank pilot irrigation project that ended in
1999. While the target under ASAL I for formation of at least 142 WUAs was met by June 1999, under
ASAL n the achievement stood at 179, an increase of 37. However, the WUAs are not yet operating
actively and effectively, and transfer of on-farm assets has not proceeded.
Rating: Unsatisfactory
5.     Rural Finance
Development objective: increased provision of finance to rural areas by private providers.
Primary indicator(s): increased private sector financing of rural production and trade by bank and
non-bank intermediaries.
Change to ASAL II: The April ICR mission found encouraging evidence of increased long and short term
bank lending to the agriculture sector. Several banks are now engaged in lending against warehouse
receipts, primarily loans for working capital, and the trend is likely to be upward as the number of licensed
public warehouses increases. In addition, one bank interviewed is increasing the term structure of some
- 15 -



loans to 3-5 years, while a number are now active in lending for farm and agricultural processing
equipment. ASAL conditionalities have contributed to these trends, but other factors such FESAL Bank
privatizations, and the availability of SAPARD grants (which increases the demand for bank loans) are
also very important.
Non-bank intermediaries have also increased their lending, particularly input suppliers. To take one
example, some international seed suppliers, or their affiliates, are an important source of credit for
producers. Large imported seed suppliers such as Pioneer pre-fmance the crop by offering the seeds in
advance, accepting payment in kind with the produce which they export. According to the Pioneer
representative for the country, such credit from input suppliers amounts to some $50 million per year,
which is a substantial sum, particularly when compared to the available short term finance from the State
Fund Agriculture ($27 million in 2001).
Rating: Satisfactory
6.     Trade and Market Regulations
Development objective: Increased competitiveness of tradable commodities.
Primary indicator(s): improved export performance of Bulgarian agricultural enterprises; increased
availability and use of a variety of agricultural inputs.
Change to ASAL II:
Export performance. Agricultural exports fell dramatically from the pre to post reform periods, by 33%
(Table 1). Declines in the export of vegetable oils, beverages, fruits and vegetables, and tobacco (still
produced by a state owned enterprise, and a major export item), were pronounced (see Annex 10 for
details). Only maize exports registered a sharp increase, in response to the end of export bans - an ASAL
conditionality. Some traditional dairy items and vegetable preserves are in demand by Russian/CEEC
immigrants in developed countries. But overall Bulgarian producers face an uphill battle in regaining lost
CIS and Arab/Mediterranean markets, and penetrating combined EU markets with their higher quality
standards. To become competitive exporters, Bulgarian firms need investment and trade finance, reliable
and timely market information, and domestic regulations and standards that are harmonized with major
trading partners, allowing easier market access.
Imports of agricultural inputs: machinery, seeds, fertilizer. Agricultural machinery is generally rather
outdated with over two-thirds of wheel tractors, chain tractors and harvesters over 10 years old. This
situation has been slowly improving in the past few years with the import of modem and highly productive
machinery. This tendency is most evident for harvesters, which are not produced locally. In the past two
years about 550 new intemationally produced harvesters were acquired by farmers. Over 2,000 tractors
were purchased in the same period. In year 2000 farmers have also increased purchase of smaller types of
machinery such as seeders (430), harrows (398), and ploughs (300). The new guarantee scheme launched
by the State Fund Agriculture in 2000, involving commercial banks and machinery suppliers, has
contributed to the renovation of the machinery park.
Demand for seeds from farmers is increasing due to greater demand for local production of hybrid
tomatoes, cucumbers, pumpkins and melons, and growing imports of vegetable seeds. Imported seeds have
become more accessible in 2001 with the passage of the new law on Seeds and Planting Material under
ASAL II, which introduced the automatic registration of seeds from the European catalogue. The seed
- 16 -



market is now very active with over 1,000 registered companies, and about 150 important players, of which
half offering imported seed. This is a substantial increase over previous years.
Fertilizer use also increased from 24 kg/ha in 1998 to 34 kg/ha in 2000, due to falling import duties. Up to
1998, trends in fertilizer use were negative. Local fertilizer producers often complain of unfair competition
from imports as prices of the imported products are lower. The government made an attempt to protect
local producers by introducing a 40% temporary import duty on some fertilizers in the end of 2001. This
measure however did not lead to the lowering of prices on the domestic market and was thus revoked.
Rating: Borderline Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory (2.5)
7.     Forestry Sector Development
Development objective: improved public and private sector capacity for forest management.
Primary indicator(s): forest certification action plan initiated; steps taken toward formation of forest
owner groups.
Change to ASAL II: The actions have been taken, and are being further supported by the Forestry Project,
currently under preparation.
Rating: Satisfactory
4.2 Outputs by components:
Outputs are objectives that contribute to (higher level) project outcomes. For each ASAL II component,
outcome indicators are the key conditionalities within each component that are particularly important to its
success. The relevant conditionalities used in this assessment are:
1. Land Markets: land restitution and titling measures.
2. Cereals Marketing: Zarneni Hrani privatization and measures to improve State Grain Reserves
management.
3. Privatization: agro-industry privatization.
4. Irrigation: passage of Water Users Law; irrigation system reform action plan.
5. Rural Finance: reduction in SFA short and long term lending; CCB privatization.
6. Trade: fertilizer tariff reduction and maintenance of open trade regime.
7. Forestry: steps toward forest certification, forest owners group establishment.
Progress toward achievement of ASAL II targets for each of the above indicators was assessed. This yields
for an overall output rating a "high" Satisfactory (3.40 on a scale of 1 to 4. See Table 3: Output Ratings).
For two of the seven components ASAL II targets were exceeded (land and privatization), and in all other
cases the conditions were fully met The difference between the output rating (3.40) and the outcome rating
in Table 1 (2.70) is substantial, and due primarily to slow materialization of desired impact in four policy
areas: land markets, agro-enterprise privatization, irrigation and rural finance.
- 17 -



Table 3. Output Ratings
S o m p oWeio      lt  o'- 'Veig R:W
Land Market Development                     4            0.20     0.8
Cereals Marketing & Food Security           3            0.20      0.6
Privatization of Ag. & Food Enterprises     4            0.20     0.8
Irrigation System Development               3            0.06      0.18
Rural Finance                               3            0.18     0.54
Trade & Market Regulations                  3            0.10     0.3
Forestry Sector Development                 3            0.06      0.18
Total (wtd. avg.)                                        1.00     3.40
Note: rating scale is the same I to 4 scale explained in Table 1.
In what follows ASAL I output indicators - which as noted are defined to be selected policy conditions -
are listed for each component. An evaluation is then made on whether the targets were met, and with
ratings on a scale from highly unsatisfactory (1) to highly satisfactory (4).
ASAL II achievements are also compared to those under ASAL I, and with the pre-ASAL period, where
possible. This allows the reader to compare the incremental policy change under the two operations.
1.     Land Market Development
Output indicators: restitution and titling targets.
It can be seen in the chronology below that by the completion of ASAL II in 2001, restitution and land
titling processes were almost complete. In the case of restitution, the target of 95% was exceeded by over 3
percentage points.
In 2001 one can see a difference in percentages between restituted land (99.8%) and titled land (91%), also
defined as land restituted with ownership documents. This difference is explained by the fact that not all
former owners or their heirs were prepared to come forward and receive their documents, even though they
had formally been restituted their land. The titling target is nonetheless judged to be substantially achieved.
Incremental progress in restitution from ASAL I to ASAL II is similar to the progress from the pre ASAL
period to ASAL 1 (19.8 percentage point increase, and 18 points, respectively.) There was a dramatic
increase in titling in ASAL II (an 18 percentage point increase from the pre ASAL period to ASAL I; a 73
point increase from ASAL I to II). The increase in titling is due to the fact that under ASAL II, the land
commission decision and parcel sketch map - which are conferred as part of the restitution process -
acquired the force of a notary deed. This increased the recorded pace of titling and has greatly improved
the ability of owners to transact land.
Rating: The rating for ASAL II is Highly Satisfactory.
1997: Pre ASAL
Restitution: 62% of land eligible for restitution.
Titling: achievement close to zero (it is unclear what documents confer title).
- 18 -



1999: ASAL I Board targets
Restitution target: 80% of land eligible.
Titling target: 18% of land eligible.
2001: ASAL II Board targets
Restitution target: 95% of eligible land (actual achievement: 99.8%).
Titling target: 95% of eligible land (actual achievement: 91%).
2.     Cereals Marketing and Food Security.
Output indicators: Zarneni Hrani privatization and State Grain Reserves management.
ASAL II completed the withdrawal of the state marketing agency Zarneni Hrani from grain storage and
marketing, by finishing privatization of its 924,000 mt of storage capacity. Another aim of this component
was to reduce the detrimental effects of State Grain Reserves operations on private markets through
improved management, which was a shift from the emphasis in 1999 on reducing overall emergency stock
levels and targets. It became clear in discussions with MAF and the Council of Ministers that placement of
ceilings on the State Grain Reserves was considered to be an infringement on sovereignty (these concerns
heightened with the emergence of the conflict in Kosovo, and became an election year issue). Even
maintenance of ASAL I conditions in this area proved difficult. Therefore the conditionality shifted to
improving stock management (improve, more transparent rotation methods) rather than requiring capacity
ceilings to which the Government felt it might not be able to adhere.
The incremental progress in Zarneni Hrani privatization is approximately equal from the pre ASAL period
to ASAL I, and from ASAL I to ASAL II.
Rating: Satisfactory.
1997: Pre ASAL
Zarneni Hrani owns 924,000 mt storage capacity.
GOB State Grain Reserves are in excess of 320,000 mt.
1999: ASAL I Board targets
Zarneni Hrani privatization target: 449,000 mt capacity.
State Grain Reserves maximum stock target: 320,000 mt.
2001: ASAL II Board targets
Zarneni Hrani privatization target: 100% of capacity.
SGR management target: GOB adopts regulation improving management of SGR stocks.
3.     Privatization of Agricultural and Food Enterprises.
Output indicators: agro-industrial enterprise privatization targets.
Under ASAL II, most of the privatization targets set were exceeded. The privatization of the agricultural
sector - grain mills, seeds firms, and food industry companies - has now been substantially completed. The
- 19 -



incremental progress from ASAL I to ASAL II was in most cases about a 20 percentage point increase,
which is considerable given that most of the easier to privatize companies were sold under ASAL I. One
agro-industrial company in the Ministry of Economy privatization portfolio (Bulgartabac) does remain to
be privatized, but is being disposed of under the Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL).
Rating: Highly Satisfactory.
1997: Pre ASAL
26% long term assets in agriculture and food industry privatized.
1999: ASAL I Board targets
Grain milling capacity: 70% privatized.
Seeds: 14 of 24 firms privatized.
MAFAR long terms (LT) assets: 55% privatized.
Ministry of Industry LT assets food industry: 85% privatized.
2001: ASAL II Board targets
Grain milling capacity: 95% privatized (actual achievement: 99%).
Seeds company assets: 90% of assets privatized (actual achievement: 94%).
MAF long term (LT) assets: 75% privatized (actual achievement: 76%).
Ministry of Industry LT assets food industry: 95% privatized.
4.     Irrigation Systems Development.
Output indicators: passage of Water Users legislation and preparation of an action plan for irrigation
system restructuring.
Restructuring in the irrigation sector started formally in 2001 with the passage of the law on Water User
Associations (WUAs), and preparation of an irrigation action plan, along with promulgation of statutes for
establishing a new Water Agency. The legislative and policy basis for a genuine restructuring is now in
place, but considerable work remains to be done in actually implement the program, including formation of
new WUAs and transfer of on-farm assets to existing WUAs (see outcomes).
Rating: Satisfactory.
5.     Rural Finance.
Output indicators: targets for reduction in SFA short and long term lending.
SFA short-term programs vary from year to year but generally consist in financing the purchase of inputs
for the spring and autumn sowing campaigns. The targeted crops are grains and oilseeds (wheat, maize,
barley, sunflower). The loans usually amount to 70% of the cost of inputs. First farmers have to present
to SFA the invoices and loan applications, then the SFA transfers the sums into the bank account of the
suppliers. At harvest farmers repay the loans in cash. The estimated number of SFA short-tern borrowers
is about 4,000, while the total amount disbursed is about 7% of the value of the total wheat output in the
country. Disbursements are widespread with small amounts allocated to each region and with the impact of
this assistance on crop production relatively small.
Despite the small scale of SFA assistance, ASAL II maintains the principle of gradual exit of SFA from
- 20 -



short-term financing. Recent field research reveals that farmers criticize the slowness of SFA loan
approval (e.g. providing for fertilizers too late in the season); its heavily bureaucratic procedures; and the
need for political connections or illegal payments to obtain loans. Another problem connected with SFA
activity is the amount of unpaid loans which increased from 28 million BGN in 2000 to 38 million BGN in
2001, despite SFA management's stated policy of increasing collections.
The SFA long-term programs are targeted at young farmers, mountain farming etc. and are extended at
terms not substantially different from commercial rates. The loans are actually disbursed by commercial
banks who usually reject half of the projects approved by SFA. SFA involvement is reportedly due to
insufficient amounts of long-term funds available for lending by commercial banks (this problem was
confirmed in analytical work for both ASALs). A new program providing partial guarantees for equipment
loans involves the SFA, equipment importers and banks. The SFA provides banks with an interest bearing
deposit on the amount of the loan guarantee. The program aims to bring much needed agricultural
equipment in the country, while encouraging banks to enter a new area of financing. ASAL II requires a
gradual lowering of the amount of a given loan that can be guaranteed, and a reduction in the amount of
cash deposit by SFA. This should encourage commercial banks to take over the business themselves.
Another issue connected with SFA was the privatization of remaining state shares in the Central
Cooperative Bank (CCB). Under ASAL H the SFA shares in CCB were transferred to the Bank
Consolidation Company, an institution with sound procedures for the sale of state shares in banks. The
respective decision of the Council of Ministers was taken in February 2001 and the actual transfer of the
shares made in May 2001.
Following the stated government commitment to reduce and ultimately exit short-term agricultural
financing, SFA short-term financing was reduced from 55 million BGN at the beginning of ASAL I to 34
million BGN the following year, falling further to 30 million BGN in 2000 and 27 million BGN in 2001.
Under ASAL II measures were taken for the first time to cap SFA long term financing (at 26 million
BGN), and efforts made to move guarantees to more commercial terms.
Rating: Satisfactory.
1999: ASAL I Board targets
GOB to limit budget for State Fund Agriculture short term finance to 30 million BGN in FYOO.
GOB to move allocation of long term loans to more commercial terms.
2001: ASAL ]E Board targets
GOB to limit budget for State Fund Agriculture short term finance to 27 million BGN in FY01.
GOB to limit FY01 allocation to 26 million BGN.
6.     Trade and Market Regulations.
Output indicators: reduction in fertilizer tariffs; maintenance of stable, open trade and pricing regime.
The chosen indicators involve reduction of fertilizer tariffs to 25%, and maintenance of the open trade
regime established under ASAL II. The incremental reduction in tariffs up to ASAL I was 10 percentage
points, with the same reduction up to ASAL II. The trade regime (absence of quantitative restrictions; no
ad hoc import duty exemptions during the year) was generally maintained according to the agreement.
Two other conditions relevant to the trade and regulatory regime - seeds and food safety - bear mentioning.
- 21 -



With the passage of the new law on seeds and planting material in October 2000 all genetic material listed
in the EU Common Catalogue was automatically listed also in the Bulgarian National Variety List. Thus
no additional testing of imported genetic material is now required except for phytosanitary reasons. This
has improved the access of farmers to new seed varieties making them more competitive on intemational
markets.
The alignment with EU food standards and safety requirements in the country is in course with EU
accession. A special council on food safety deals with problems in the sector and a national task force has
been established to prepare a national food safety plan. In the medium term the aim is to avoid overlapping
by different state agencies and to increase competitiveness of Bulgarian food products.
Rating: Satisfactory.
1997: Pre ASAL
Fertilizer tariffs 45%.
Export and import licenses, export taxes, QRs, used to restrict trade.
Contract pricing system inhibits market entry and agricultural trade.
1999: ASAL I Board targets
Fertilizer tariffs reduced to 35%.
Eliminate export and import licensing and all quantitative restrictions.
Eliminate all export taxes (except Forestry products).
Eliminate all remaining price controls and end contract pricing system.
2001: ASAL II Board targets
Fertilizer tariffs reduced to 25%.
Maintain other trade and pricing reforms from ASAL I.
7.     Forestry Sector Development.
Output indicators: development of forest certification processes and establishment of a legal basis for
formation of forest owner groups.
These conditions were fully implemented.
Rating: Satisfactory.
1999: ASAL I Board targets
no targets set
2001: ASAL II Board targets
MAF to develop action plan for forest certification; to allow private companies to contract forest works in
state forests; and to give legal status to forest owner groups, allowing them assistance on priority basis.
4.3 Net Present Value/lEconomic rate of return:
Not applicable
- 22 -



4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development was strongest in the Rural Land Market component. The cadastre and property
registration law was passed in April 2000 and scheduled to enter into force when accompanying regulations
were ready (January 2001). The Cadastre Agency, newly established under this law, is one of the main
counterparts in the World Bank Registration and Cadastre Project, implementing and introducing the new
unified system that helps the development of the land market.
The warehouse receipts system contributed to the establishment of private sector public warehouses and
through this also strengthened the role of the MAFs National Grain Service and stimulated commercial
banks to extend loans to the sector. This is the second strongest contribution to institutional development.
The functioning of several other institutions was affected by the ASAL including the State Grain Reserves
and State Fund Agriculture. The first committed to acting in a more transparent manner, with agreed
procedures for stock rotation. The second agreed to shift to more commercial terms of operation. Here, it
will take time for institutional changes to take root.
In irrigation the plans for dismantlement of an old state monopoly and emergence of a new agency that
would help establish water user associations will also have a strong institutional impact. Needless to say,
the ISC restructuring program under the action plan must be implemented before any definitive judgment
about institutional impact is made. In food safety the establishment of a unified food authority was
discussed, and here too, the proof of institutional development will come with implementation of the plan.
In forestry, with restitution near completion, the National Forestiy Board is working towards helping
owners unite in associations as overall the role of state agencies in this sector is changing as well.
What is still sorely needed is an efficient and well-functioning public administration that understands the
role of public goods in facilitating market development and stimulating private rural investment, can
implement new legislation, and has a healthy, ongoing dialogue with the private sector and civil society
representatives in rural areas.
Rating: Modest
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The main factor outside government control was the ongoing drought. Here, fear of crop failure made the
GOB wary of reforms proposed for the State Grain Reserves and the State Fund Agriculture.
The 2001 elections were another factor outside the GOB's control. This heightened politicians' concems
about conditionalities related to the State Grain Reserves, which were seen as an infringement of
sovereignty, and SFA credit, which, it was argued, was necessary to compensate for the drought.
The above factors made negotiation of SGR and SFA conditionalities more difficult, but ultimately
agreement was reached on conditions that were mutually acceptable and furthered ASAL II aims.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The systematic approach to policy reform following the ASAL implementation helped articulate a vision
- 23 -



for the agricultural sector. The consistency in policies characteristic of the government after 1997
contrasted sharply with the lack of commitment and policy instability of the pre-ASAL period.
The ruling coalition had the majority in Parliament which ensured the swift passage of new legislation.
The Council of Ministers provided effective coordination between ministries and monitoring during
implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Administrative capacity in line ministries (particularly the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF))
was adequate to implement reforms.
The government and MAF were often under pressure from farmers and branch producer associations to
increase lending to the agriculture sector through the State Fund Agriculture, to intervene on the market
through the State Reserve in case of price hikes or shortages, or to introduce protective import duties or
provide ad hoc duty exemptions. Both the government in office prior to June 2001 and the newly elected
government of Simeon Saxe-Coburg have resisted such pressure and have observed their commitments.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Not applicable
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Change of Government. Most reforms are highly sustainable not only because they are necessary for EU
accession, but because they address agriculture sector problems that seem to be widely acknowledged. A
specific feature of the ASAL II negotiations was that they were held with an outgoing government in the
period before the general elections, which occurred in early 2001. The expectation of government was that
no significant changes in agricultural policy would occur as a result of the elections. The elections brought
to power a new political coalition and a new government after the loan was approved by the Bank Board
and before it was ratified by Parliament. However the first meetings with the new govermnent members
and ministers showed continuing support for ASAL reform measures. The economic program of the new
government shows no significant controversy with the policies supported by the Bank and has many
common points, highlighting the importance of development of the land market, conclusion of restitution
and privatization, and management of public infrastructure such as the irrigation network, by private
farmers. Overall this is a hopeful sign that despite changes in political leadership there is continuity in
policies and implemented reforms will be maintained.
Land policy. The evolution of the land market will also be helped by the introduction of the unified
cadastre and land registration system. The law on cadastre and property registration was passed in April
2000, and the Cadastre Agency started functioning in January 2001. Presently the information on land
ownership is dispersed in various agencies, often not connected among them. State agencies dealing with
land transactions often lack the necessary equipment and staff. The person-based (vs. parcel based)
registration system is not accurate, leading to numerous cases of fraud. These and other organizational and
technical problems will be addressed by the ongoing World Bank cadastre and registration project that aims
to modernize the system and contribute to a more active land, and real estate, market.
Warehouse receipts. Strong momentum has been established in the creation of licensed public warehouses,
and in initiation of lending against grain stocks. The demand for these facilities is high, and there is every
reason to expect that the number of LPWs and lending against grain, will expand. The technical support of
- 24 -



ACDINVOCA will continue.
Trade regime. One fertilizer incident illustrates the sustainability of trade reforms. Under ASAL I and II,
fertilizer import duties were lowered and maintained at a relatively low level thereby decreasing the cost of
this input for farmers. In November 2000 a temporary import duty of 40% was introduced for ammoniun
nitrate, following protests from local fertilizer producers against cheap imports. Following protests from
farmers the measure was revoked in February 2001.
Forestry. Sustainability of forestry activities will be enhanced by the activities of the Forestry Project,
currently under preparation.
Problem areas - State Grain Reserves, State Fund Agriculture: Less sustainability can be expected in the
lending activities of the State Fund Agriculture, since the drought has badly affected major crops in a
second consecutive year and farmers strongly insist on government assistance, including loans for autumn
sowing.
Another area where sustainability may be tenuous is in the operations of the State Reserve. Under the
upcoming Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL) therefore, the Government commits in the LDP to
support SGR reforms, and the policy matrix incorporates specific conditionalities for improved
management and transparency.
Problem areas: Irrigation: There is currently no follow up operation to assist in restructuring ISC or
facilitating formation of WUAs. It is not clear that the reform momentum of ASAL can be maintained,
particularly given the strong resistance of ISC. The GOB has however expressed recently interest in Bank
support for irrigation, in the context of a broader rural development operation.
Other medium-term measures: ASAL II also outlined a number of measures to be implemented in the
medium term. Table 2 in Annex 1 lists these, and indicates which have been completed, which are pending,
etc. A large number of measures have been completed, indicating continued GOB commitment to the
reform program, and the likelihood of sustainability. Measures that have not been initiated yet, and need to
be addressed include:
*   GOB Review of VAT administration and rural impact (the Bank is considering addressing general
tax administration improvement in an upcoming Revenue Administration Reform Project, which
could in principle address VAT issues).
* Unification of current two tier licensing system for warehouses.
* Establish by MAF of an effective forest information management system able to link forest
management planning, forest production and monitor chain of custody for timber and other forest
products.
*   MAF to apply and enforce national forest standards on a broad basis and further develop forest
certification compliant with international requiremnents.
Rating: Likely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The sustainability of policy and institutional reforms supported by ASAL II is made more likely by the
activities of a number of related Bank operations. The ongoing Cadastre and Registration Project will
improve security of tenure and land market functioning. In addition, a number of upcoming projects will
continue or extend ASAL reforms. These include the Forestry Project (which strengthens public and private
- 25 -



forestry management capacity); the Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL) which facilitates continued
progress in reform of SGR management, and possible Rural Finance and/or Rural Development projects.
There is no monitoring and evaluation plan for the future which would allow ASAL II impact to continued
to be monitored. The is important in part because sectoral policy reforms take time to have an effect. It is
expected that follow-up work to the recently completed Poverty Assessment will deepen that report's initial
evaluation of the determinants of rural poverty, by examining the determinants of rural poverty more
carefully, giving particular attention to the role of agriculture.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
High quality analytical work supported by MAF, similar to that under ASAL 1, laid a solid foundation for
the project. Good relations with the client were maintained throughout project preparation. Even on
controversial issues, when the Bank and Borrower disagreed, discussions were carried out in a professional
manner and in a spirit of cooperation.
7.2 Supervision:
Not relevant
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Satisfactory
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The MAF provided indispensable input to studies and surveys carried out during preparation. These led to
preparation of a policy matrix which was intensively discussed and negotiated with the Bank team.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Despite inevitable differences of opinion, cooperation was generally good, both with the Minister of
Agriculture (Minister Varbanov) and ministry staff for technical discussions, and the relevant staff of the
ministry of finance. The MAF showed an unexpected capacity for leaming from the implementation
experience of ASAL I, and using this knowledge to improve implementation in ASAL II. This was evident
in improvement of land market measures (e.g. introduction of internet-based land information system) and
an improved system for SFA guarantees.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
See 7.5 above
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
Highly Satisfactory
8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons are as follows:
Concerning implementation of conditions (outputs):
*   Single tranche adjustment can work when there is strong government commitment and when
- 26 -



undertaken within a well elaborated medium-term framework.
*   Single tranche loans are more flexible than multi tranche loans since they avoid locking into legal
conditions and policy targets that may not be fully understood or supported by Government, and
for which implementation capacity may be inadequate or hard to foresee. The single tranche
approach depends on the existence of continuous monitoring and dialogue on policy targets and
their implementation. This discussion allows periodic adjustment and refinement of conditions, and
facilitates a learning by doing process (it could also lead to watering down of reform by an
uncommitted government, but in such cases the Bank is able to refrain from Board submission).
*   Strong political support for this loan came from outside the Ministry of Agriculture, i.e. from the
Deputy Prime Minister's office (in other countries, the strong supporter is often the Ministry of
Finance). The interest of line ministries in adjustment loans typically wanes because these
operations impose political costs on ministry clients, while the line ministry sees direct benefits
flowing only to the Ministry of Finance. The support of a stronger ministry (Prime Minister's
Office or Ministry of Finance) can provide crucial support to the line minister. One way of
increasing line ministry support (and improving impact of reforms) would be to include a TA
and/or investment component in the adjustment loan. This said, the experience with hybrid loans is
evidently poor in ECA.
*   Policy-relevant analytical work is valuable in formulating major policy changes and building
consensus by discussing the findings with the government and major stakeholders. It is crucial for
building the flexible working relationship necessary to shepherd a single tranche adjustment loan
through implementation and to Board.
Conceming outcomes:
*   Market and resource allocation responses to reform can be weak in the absence of complementary
investments, technical assistance, and capacity building measures. These may best be
accomplished by means of investment loans that complement the sector adjustment loan, but such
loans need to be closely coordinated with the adjustment loan, and timed to operate in parallel or
follow it closely. Given the long lead time required for preparation of Bank operations, and the
existence of Board slot constraints (as in Bulgaria) this is an exceedingly difficult task.
Complementary investment loans must be prepared early.
CAS objectives/poverty:
*   To achieve an impact on rural poverty, it is probably not sufficient to assume that adjustment will
lead to pro-poor growth. Policy reform - at least via a sector adjustment loan - may be a weak
instrument for poverty reduction in some contexts. Specific complementary investments and
technical assistance appear essential to involve poor households that are potentially economically
viable in the growth process.
*   A revised public sector role that shifts toward provision of public goods is critical in improving the
market response to reform and extending the benefits of reform to poor rural inhabitants and
smaller farmers. The Ministry of Agriculture has an extremely important role to play, as the case
of warehouse receipts in Bulgaria demonstrates.
- 27 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Please see Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
None
- 28 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Table 1: Key Outputs Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Indicator/Matrix                                        Actual/Latest Estimates
A land commission decision and parcel sketch map (which is  Done
legally equivalent to a notary deed, or title) will be delivered to
owners holding at least 95 percent of the agricultural land
eligible for restitution.
The GOB will present and Parliament will pass a Law on  Done
Cadastre and Property Registration, satisfactory to the Bank and
will establish a Cadastre Agency.
The MAF will prepare and implement a land information   Done
dissemination program, involving establishment of a countrywide
land listing service, freely accessible over the Intemet. Computer
erminals will be available to the public in MAF offices in 28
regional capitals.
Council of Ministers will adopt a regulation that:     Done
(i) establishes that State Reserve SR grain inventories are
maintained exclusively for emergency purposes;
(ii) allows release of SGR grain stocks, other than for rotation
purpose with the aim of maintaining grain quality, only in the
event of an emergency situation officially declared by The
Government, or in the event that domestic grain prices exceed
CIF prices by at least 15 percent for an uninterrupted period of
one month;
(iii) will require, for the purpose of rotating SGR stocks and with
the aim of making such rotations more predictable and
transparent, that the SGR: (a) pre-announce the three-monthly
SGR sales and purchase schedule, (b) spreading sales and
purchases evenly through such period, and matching the volume
of sales and purchases within such period to keep net inventories
close to constant (c) establish robust financial management
systems, including both physical and financial audits
COM to adopt the relevant decree regulating the operation of the Done
Indemnity Funds.
NGS to make it a formal requirement that both Licensed Public
Warehouses (LPW) and Licensed Grain Stores (LGS) fully and
publicly disclose at the storage facility the conditions and limits
of LPW and LGS storage license.
Done
MAF will privatize or initiate liquidation (with appointment of a
liquidator) of at least 75% of long-term assets existing in the
MAF privatization program.
MAF will privatize or initiate liquidation (with appointment of a Done
liquidator) of at least 95% of the grain milling enterprises.
MAF will privatize or initiate liquidation (with appointment of a Done
liquidator) of 90% of Sortovi Semena asset.
MAF will privatize or initiate liquidation (with appointment of a Done
- 29 -



liquidator) of all Zameni Hrani assets.
MOE will privatize or initiate liquidation (with appointment of a Done
liquidator) of at least 95% of long-term assets existing in the food
industry program.
Done
Prepare an Irrigation Sector Development Strategy.
A law on Water Users Associations, satisfactory to the Bank, will
be passed by Parliament.
Approve statutes of new Water Management Agency        Done
(i) COM to issue decision on privatization of SFA shares in CCB Done
through BCC.
(ii) SFA shares in CCB to be transferred to BCC; and
(i) Short-term credit programs: MAF will submit an FY01 budget Done
proposal for all SFA short-term lending programs of no more
than BGN 27 million in total.
(ii) SFA long-termn program portfolio composition: the overall
composition of SFA long termn programs to shift from
bank-intermediated lending of SFA funds to SFA guarantees of
bank loans. The guarantee portion should increase to 75% of the
total long-term SFA portfolio in 2001, as demonstrated by SFA's
2001 Program. SFA has established an upper limit on annual
budget allocations for long tern finance in the amount of BGN
26 million.
(iii) SFA loan guarantees:
(a) SFA guarantee coverage in 2001 to be limited to a maximum
of 70 per cent of the loan provided by the commercial bank; and
(b) SFA to modify its practice of placing deposits constituting full
loan guarantee coverage in participating banks such that in 2001,
SFA will reduce such deposits to no more than 50 percent of the
loan anount guaranteed on an individual loan basis; and
(c) the interest charged by SFA on such deposits should be no
less than 0.45 times the BNB base rate; and
(iv) SFA lending intermediated through commercial banks: the
contractual cost of funds for banks participating in SFA
bank-intermediated lending schemes shall be no less than 0.65
times the BNB base rate.
COM to convene Council on Food Safety pursuant to the  Done
provisions on Law on Food Safety which will establish a Task
Force for the preparation of a National Food Safety Program and
Action Plan.
Prepare draft Action Program.
- 30 -



Parliament to pass Law on Seeds and Planting Materials which  Done
foresees that plant genetic material listed under the EU Common
Catalogue is automatically also listed under the Bulgarian
National Seed Catalogue without any further seed testing
requirements (other than for phytosanitary reasons).
The Government of Bulgaria will reduce the fertilizer import  Done
tariff to 25 percent by January 1, 2000.
Refrain from introducing temporary import duty exemptions on  Done
grains.
MAF will initiate the establishment of an independent national  Done
working group, open to all stakeholders, and the preparation of
an action plan to develop national standards for forest and
chain of custody certification, consistent with the relevant
Pan-European Ministerial resolutions & recommendations and
which can be accredited by the major forest certification
schemes (i.e. FSC, PEFC).
MAF will issue new procurement procedures to the effect that
forest works in the state forests are now contracted to private
companies on the basis of competitive and transparent tenders.
MAF will further (i) adjust the legal framework such that legal
status is provided to groups or association of private forest
owners; and (ii) will prepare regulations such that assistance is
given on a priority basis to groups of forest owners committing
themselves to joint management of restituted forests.
Table 2:
Reform areas   Medium term actions (2001-2003)
1. Land        Government to modemize land registration and  Partially completed
market         cadastre system and register notary deeds
development
MAF carry out information campaign to tell public  Fully completed
that land commission decision is equivalent to
notary deed (title) and no longer subject to appeal
2. Cereals    Government to abstain from establishing a market  Fully completed
market        stabilization or intervention agency, with the exception
development   of an intervention facility required to implement the
and food      EU's Common Agriculture Policy.
security
Govemment to ensure SR compliance with adopted  Partially completed
regulation. Requires SR to increase share of
inventories stored in private, licensed warehouses.
Government to pass legislation changing the State
Reserves to a public institution subject to full public
disclosure.
- 31 -



Government to review VAT administration        No progress to date
arrangements
MOF to support the establishment of an association of Partially completed
licensed warehouse operators
MAF to phase out storage subsidies to farmers as  Partially completed
Public Licensed Warehouses expand.
MAF to unify the two-tier licensing system for  No progress to date
warehouses.
MAF to harrnonize domestic grain grades with EU  Partially completed
standards.
3 Privatization  Government to complete privatizations.       Partially completed
of agriculture
and food
enterprises
4. Irrigation  Government/MAF to carry out public investments in  Partially completed
system         irrigation on the basis of economic criteria and write
development    off schemes that are no longer economically viable.
Govemment/MOF to implement reforms in Law on   Partially completed
WUAs and the Statutes of the new IA and the
reorganization of the ISC. Transfer usufruct rights on
infrastructure to WUAs with optional rights to
ownership of such infrastructure. Provide WUAs with
the right to federate into larger associations and to take
over larger irrigation infrastructure
5. Rural finance Should SCC legislation be submitted for approval to No legislation introduced
the COM after Board, it should be satisfactory to the
Bank, providing for adequate depositor protection,
sound governance and strong regulatory oversight by
banking authorities.
Following adoption by Parliament of new SCC    No legislation passed
legislation, existing credit cooperatives should be
registered under the new legislation in a timely
manner. In addition,
Adequate resources should be provided to BNB to  No legislation passed to this effect
undertake credit cooperative supervision
Government/stakeholders to finalize steps to improve Partially completed
the legal framework for mortgage lending, including
lending against agricultural land with the aim to
achieve a reasonable balance between the interests of
- 32 -



debtors and creditors. Envisaged revisions will pertain
to the Contracts and Obligations Act.
Government, through BCC, to sell all public shares in Fully completed
CCB.
Short term credit programs: the MAF to progressively Partially completed
reduce expenditures for all short-term credit programs
in years following 2001, reaching zero by no later than
2004 (year 2003 budget submission).
Long term programs: SFA to continue to shift from Partially completed
indirect lending to guarantees, shifting to more
commercial terms on guarantees.
6. Trade and  Government to prepare and implement National  ully completed
market        Food Safety Program and Action Plan.
regulations
Government to maintain low, uniform level of  Partially completed
protection for agriculture inputs, in particular
fertilizer and further seek to reduce protection.
Government to maintain liberal incentive regime and Fully completed
continue to refrain from introducing temporary
import duty exemptions on grains.
7. Forestry   MAF to establish an effective forest information  No progress to date
sector        management system able to link forest management
development   planning, forest production and to monitor chain of
custody for timber and other forest products.
MAF to apply and enforce national forest standards  No progress to date
on a broad basis and further develop forest
certification compliant with intemational
requirements.
MAF to consistently apply and procurement    Partially completed
procedures for forest operations.
MAF to extend and further improve technical  Partially completed
assistance to new forest owners.
GOB/MAF to explore the possibility of introducing  Partially completed
trading of carbon emission rights in line with the
Kyoto Protocol.
- 33 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Comp nent (in US$ million eq ivalent)
Project Cost by     Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest      Percentage of
Component           US$ million        Estimate            Appraisal
US$ million
50.0               50.0                100
Total Baseline Cost        50.0               50.0
Total Project Cost         50.0               50.0
Total Financing           50.0                50.0
Required
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest Estimate    Percenta ge of Ap raisal
Bank     Govt.   CoF.     Bank     Govt.   CoF.     Bank     Govt.    CoF.
50.0                      50.0                      100.0    0.0      0.0
- 34-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 35 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
6/98                         2   Economists
I   Rural Finance Specialist
I   Grain Marketing Specialist
9/98                         3   Economists
11/98                        1   Economist
I   Economist/Trade Specialist
I   Privatization Specialist
2/99                         2   Economists
I   Agric. Economist
9/99                         1   Economist
4/2000                       1   Economist
I   Machinery Specialist
I   Trade/Sanitary/Phytosanitary
Specialist
I    Seeds Specialist
I    Rural Finance Specialist
5/2000                       1   Irrigation Specialist
6/2000                       1   Economist
8/2000                       2   Economists
9/2000                       2   Economists
I   Agriculture Economist
I   Warehouse Receipt System
Specialist
I    State Reserve Management
I   Expert
Grain Marketing & Warehouse
I    Receipt Specialist
I    Food Standards Specialist
I   Rural Finance Expert
2    Credit Cooperatives Expert
Mortgage Legislation Experts
1/2001                      2    Economists
I   Agricultural Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
4/2001                       2   Economists
I   Agriculture Specialist
I   Financial Management
- 36 -



Specialist
I   Inigation Specialist
I   Rural Finance Specialist
5/2001
Supervision
4/2002                       2   Agricultural economists
ICR
4/2002                       2    Agricultural economists            S             S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                n/a                     333.42*
Appraisal/Negotiation                     n/a
Supervision                               na/                       43.78
ICR                                       nal
Total                                     n/a                      377.20
*Differentation between Identification/Preparation and Appraisal/Negotiation and Supervision and ICR;
and staff week information are no longer possible in SAP. The only differentiation available is between
lending and supervision.
- 37 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
?jMacro policies                            O H   *SUOM       O N   O NA
OSector Policies                            O H   *SUOM       O N   O NA
0 Physical                                  O H   OSUOM       O N   * NA
FIi Financial                               O H   OSUOM       O N   * NA
Z Institutional Development                 0 H   O SU * M    0 N   0 NA
OI Environmental                            O H   OSUOM       O N   * NA
Social
* Poverty Reduction                  O H   OSU*M       O N   O NA
O Gender                             O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)             O H   OSUOM       O N   * NA
Z Private sector development                0 H   O SUO M     0 N   0 NA
O Public sector management                  0 H   O SU O M    0 N   * NA
O Other (Please specify)                    O H   O SU O M    O N   * NA
Macro policy reform and poverty reduction are not development objectives of ASAL II, however they are
relevant and are therefore considered here.
- 38 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
Z Lending                                           OHS*S OU OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS OS       0 U   O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       0 U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
 Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU    O HU
? Government implementation performance             O HS OS      O U   0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                 *HS OS       O U   O HU
Z Overall                                           *HS OS       O U   O HU
- 39 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Dieterle, Gerhard and Kehr, Karl. November 2000. Bulgaria Forestry Sector: Analysis of the Transition
Process and Options for Further Development.
Georgieva, Anna. December, 2000. ASAL II Background Note: Agriculture Sector Performance in Pre
and Post Reform Periods
. 2000. Agriculture Sector Notes (fertilizers, the State Reserves)
April, 2000. Study of Current Status of Seed Market in Bulgaria.
.______ .. June, 1999. Survey offarmers, Agribusinesses and Machinery Owners.
Gordon, Henry; Ivanova, Nedka; and Nikolov, Nikolay. 2000. Agricultural Support Policies in Transition
Economies: Bulgaria..
Gray, John. August, 2000. Strategic Grain Reserves Management.
OECD. 2000. Review ofAgricultural Policies: Bulgaria.
Kiriakov, Krassimir. April 26-27, 2000. Implementation of a System of Licensed Public Warehouses and
Warehouse Receipts in Bulgaria, Paper presented to a Conference on Successful Models in Development
and Implementation of Warehouse Receipts System, Sofia.
Peoples, Kenneth; and Naylor, Frank W. September 2000. Special Law on Saving and Credit
Cooperatives - Republic of Bulgaria. Final Comments and Suggestions.
. September, 2000. Bulgaria ASAL II - Rural Finance.
SAPI, MAF. November, 2000. Status and Tendencies in the Development of the Land Market in
Bulgaria.
-40 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower Comments
Partner Comments
A questionnaire on ASAL II impact was sent to present and past government counterparts (it should be
remembered that the Bulgarian administration changed just before ASAL II Board) and donors. The aim
was to understand better the lessons from the experience with the ASAL which will help in the design of
new projects and programs in support of the agriculture sector. Responses from counterparts including the
Ministry of the Economy, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, counterparts from the previous
government, and donors are summarized here.
1.     Contribution of the World Bank ASAL project to the overall economic development of the
agricultural sector.
The prevailing opinion was that the contribution of the ASAL was high in regard to: the maintenance of a
stable trade regime; the completion of privatization and increased role of the private sector in agricultural
markets; improved conditions for the functioning of the warehouse receipts system; more effective and
market-friendly management of strategic grain reserves; improved preconditions for the better management
of the forestry sector; improved preconditions for the emergence of private rural finance. The ASAL
contribution was considered to be lowest conceming: improved contribution for better management of
irrigation assets; improved access of farmers to wider range of inputs at lower cost; improved land market
administration and efficiency and improved draft legislation for savings and credit cooperatives.
2.     Do you believe that the reform program supported by the ASAL could have succeeded without
the World Bank's assistance?
Here all but one responded that it was unlikely that the reform program could have succeeded without
the Bank's assistance.
3.     Bank performance.
Here the respondents rated as very good the relevance of World Bank advice. The timeliness and
effectiveness of intervention, the project overall design and the appraisal procedure were rated as good.
The lowest rating, i.e. acceptable, was given to the quickness of delivery of assistance and the period
incurred from project preparation until final approval.
4.     Main constraints to more efficient project implementation by the GOB.
Here answers were received from donors and one member of the previous government.
Donors pointed out the lack of agricultural strategy, qualified expertise, corruption, responsiveness and
continuity between governments, timeliness of donors coordination.
The former government counterpart cited political constraints, the election campaign, lack of good
coordination among institutions, the fact that the focus was on getting the loan and not on the policies that
went with it.
-41 -



5.     Do you consider the adjustment approach to be an effective and appropriate instrument for
needed policy reforms in agriculture?
Here all respondents answered affinnatively.
6.     Please rank the importance ofproblems in the agribusiness sector environment in Bulgaria.
Difficult access to credit or other form of financing, high interest rates on loans and difficult market access
for farmers were indicated as the major problems for the sector.
Most of the remaining constraints were rated as having less importance and being with moderate impact.
These include: regulations for starting new business; regulations on customs and foreign trade; lack of
strong and independent business associations; lack of rural infrastructure; high tax burden; burdensome tax
and customs administration; inefficiency of the judiciary system; crime; corruption; small size of private
farms; inefficiency of production cooperatives.
Two factors were rated as having a minor impact: labor regulations and inflation.
7.     Additional comments.
Two of the respondents made additional comments - one government counterpart and one donor.
Counterpart comment: The government of Republic Bulgaria has committed itself to integrate its
agriculture sector in the European Union. The preparation for EU accession and the upcoming negotiations
have the following aspects: legal; institutional/administrative; economic/financial. New projects and
programs financed by the World Bank supporting the implementation of the Common Market Organization
in the important sub-sectors will make a major contribution for the preparation of agriculture sector for EU
accession.
Donor comments: The World Bank may seek greater and stronger collaboration with other donors and
implementing organizations.
- 42 -



Additional Annex 9. Land Market Development
Observations on Farm Structure and Land Market Development
Farm Size and Number in Bulgaria
There are differing estimates on the size of individual land plots and farms as an agricultural census has not
been carried out since 1993. In many data sources there is a lack of clear differentiation between land
ownership, the number of individual land plots and owners, and land use patterns.
*   The number of parcels is estimated at 8 million in 1998 (close to 1987 estimates) and likely to
exceed 12 million (close to 1946 estimates) once subdivision between heirs is completed. Some
estimates even go as far as 22-25 mln parcels.
*   At the same time, the number of land owners is put by some researchers at 3 to 5 mln people.
*   According to latest information from MAF the number of individual land plots currently is 20
mln, the average land plot size is below 0.3 ha and the number of owners is 2 million people.
More accurate data can hopefully be obtained after the agricultural census planned for 2003 and with
progress in the implementation of the World Bank registration and cadastre project.
As to farm sizes according to the last agricultural survey before World War 11 (1934) the average farm size
was 4.9 ha. The total farm number was estimated at 885,000 with only 11% of farms larger than 10 ha,
and over 50% of farms owned by the operators. According to latest estimates made by the Agrostatistics
department of MAF, in year 2000, 761,000 farms cultivated 3.6 mln ha.; 42,000 farms produce for the
market; and 720,000 farms (94% of the total number of farms) mainly for on-farm consumption. The
latter farms cultivate 15% of agricultural land in use and breed 75% of the cows, sheep and goats. Thus
the duality of farm structure is confirmed as indicated in earlier research by FAO and EU/Phare. Among
the two types of farms, those producing for the market account for 5-6% of all farms and they cultivate
over 85% of utilized agricultural land. The small farms mainly satisfy their own consumption needs,
marketing only a small portion of their output. However the role of these farms on agriculture is important
as the majority of farm animals is bred there. It is estimated that 93% of farm land is owned by individuals
and 4% by companies. Of the land owned by individuals one-third is rented out to cooperatives and tenant
farmers.
The Land Market
The long and tortuous process of land restitution to former owners prevented development of the land
market in the past decade. One of the first land transactions surveys, carried out in 1998, showed that no
land sales occurred mainly due to the fact that former owners, or rather their heirs, were slow to divide land
among heirs and obtain legal ownership documents. In 1999 the market becomes more active but sales
were sporadic as supply significantly outweighed demand, while in 2000 over 10,000 transactions were
concluded for 18,293 ha. Subdivisions among heirs were the most frequent form of land transactions in
2000. In 2001 the number of deals (31,234) and the transacted area (59,306 ha) increased three times
against the preceding year. The average size of traded plots was 1.9 ha (and for the Dobruja region 4.5
ha).
- 43 -



Land prices increased from an average of 1,370 BGN/ha in 2000 to 1,410 BGN/ha (about $700) in 2001,
but are still substantially below EU levels. For comparison, prices are at about 12,860 Euros/ha in
Belgium, 7,608 Euros/ha in Denmark, 17,173 Euros/ha in Germany, 12,212 Euros/ha in Greece, 3,080
Euros/ ha in France, 5,224 Euros/ha in Ireland (Eurostat, 1997 data). The average farm land price for
West Europe is reportedly 10,000 $/ha and for Central Europe (excluding Poland), 5,000 $/ha.
In Bulgaria there are wide price variations by region, of between 600 and 6,500 BGN/ha. In 2001 half of
the sold land was in Dobruja (North East grain growing region) where prices were 57% higher than in
2000. At the same time, prices in other regions in 2001 (Silistra, Ruse, Razgrad, Pleven) fall by 20%
against 2000. According to the real estate agencies though there is no perceptible difference in prices in
2001 as compared to the preceding years. The "Javlena" real estate company branch in Dobrich maintains
that prices are at 800-1,200 BGN/ha but that the market is very quiet following the bad harvest in 2001. In
2001 the highest land price was registered in Plovdiv, Sofia, Haskovo where the average price reached
3500 BGN/ha. Prices were cheapest in Razgrad, Russe, Turgovishte, at an average of 680 BGN/ha.
Prices are influenced by the profitability of the possible farmiing activities in a given region, besides the size
of individual plots, location near roads, availability of strong production units that compete for land in the
region. Plots near roads fetched relatively high prices at 7,000-9,000 BGN/ha. This is due to the fact that
the buyers in most cases hoped to change the farm land category and use it for building petrol stations or
shops instead of agriculture.
The number of land transactions varies by region, being highest in the eastem regions. There land
restitution was concluded more quickly, with individual land plots larger. Another factor is that these
regions specialize in growing cereal crops that guarantee a stable income, and for which it is easier to find a
market. The higher number of land transactions though is not always a result of positive factors. The
increased number of land sales in the region of Dobruja in 2001 is due to the fact that many landowners
decided to quit agriculture, or reduce the area of cultivated land following unfavorable climatic conditions.
-44 -



Table: Land Market in 1999/2000 and 2000/2001
Land     Number of   Number of  Sold land in  Sold land in  Land price  Land price
commission    deals       deals       ha          ha       BGN/ha      BGN/ha
1999/2000  2000/2001   1999/2000   2000/2001  1999/2000   2000/2001
Blagoevgrad    380         503        127         152        1,940      3,170
Burgas       506        1,113       405        1,414       1,790      2,060
Varna       1,019       1,177      2,542       2,004      2,000       1,290
V. Turnovo     546        1,082       764        1,250      1,200        870
Vidin       491        1,541       493        1,307       2,030       920
Vraza        237         12         450         41         700        730
Gabrovo       36         129          9         148        2,310       4,600
Dobrich      897        6,350       1,793      28,878       920        1,450
Kurjali      33          66          10         27        3,340       1,720
Kiustendil    209         61          90          16        4,040      3,500
Lovech       160         186         69         414        2,340      1,490
Montana       242        166         660        528        1,120        920
Pazarjik     179         127         99         46         4,170       1,530
Pernik       25          51         22          76        2,110       2,260
Pleven       342        1,288       443        2,384      1,170       1,020
Plovdiv      233        2,527       243        1,792       2,270      4,680
Razgrad      522         697         759       2,444        900        670
Ruse        981        1,402       1,255      2,474       840         680
Silistra     795        6,092      1,318       4,774       1,170       920
Sliven       2          23           5          32        1,270       1,080
Smolian       17         99          8          117        2,830      2,180
Sofia       166         693        114         492        2,260      3,220
Stara Zagor    715        1,550       694        1,899      1,600       1,950
Turgovishte    140        870         106        1,214       1,060       700
Haskovo       446       1,137        712        1,062       230        2,680
Shumen       463        1,186      4,837       1,479       1,010       910
Jambol       928        1,196      1,032       2,847       860         870
Total      10,710      31,324     18,293      59,306      1,370       1,410
Source: SAPI
The Land Lease Act (passed in 1996, amended in 1999) largely provides the necessary conditions for free
land lease. The minimum lease period required by law is 4 years however according to researchers this
term is seldom observed while one year more informal rent contracts are preferred. This is done to avoid
the required written form of the lease contract and is detrimental to lessees who are not sure they will be
able to cultivate the same land in the next year.
Despite the positive developments a number of reasons still prevent the functioning of an active land
market. Ownership issues between heirs of restituted land remain unresolved and decisions for land
transactions cannot be taken. Land prices are low and it is not profitable for owners to sell, instead they
prefer to rent out land, waiting for a better market environment. The low profitability in agriculture,
-45 -



calculated as highest for grains at 10-12%, is one of the main reasons for weak demand. The depopulation
in some regions and hence lack of any individuals or companies that could be interested in agriculture also
contributes to weak demand. Very often demand is for land plots of a size over 10 ha, near roads and thc
Black sea coast or answering to other requirements that are difficult to meet. In the past decade land
fragmentation and the unsettled property rights prevented investments in agricultural holdings. In the
coming years it is expected that consolidation of fragmented plots will start, land prices will gradually rise
and the land market will become increasingly more active.
- 46 -



Additional Annex 10. Trade Performance
Foreign Trade in Agrifoods Shrinks
By Anna Georgieva
The factors adversely affecting Bulgarian agrifood exports from the outset of reforms continue to exercise
their negative influence. The most important factor since 1989 is the loss of traditional export markets to
the FSU. The EU has become the largest trading partner of the country in the past decade with a share in
total exports of 51.2% and in imports of 44.1% (2000). For agriculture this share is respectively 33% and
41%. However only the relative share increased and not the traded volumes of agricultural produce. In
trade with the main EU partners, imports of materials (e.g. for production of shoes and clothes) are
subsequently exported back in processed form, making use of Bulgaria's relatively inexpensive labor force.
In agriculture the same approach is used in the case of water birds - ducks and geese are imported in the
country for fattening and later exported back to Belgium and France as duck and geese liver. In general
Bulgaria is not able to fully use the preferential quotas for food exporrts to the EU according to the EU
association agreement and the later introduced "double zero approach"
The share of the CIS in exports in 2000 was at just 5.7% and in imports at 27.8%, for agriculture this
share was respectively 9.2% and 2.1%. Exports to the CIS decrease year by year, while imports consist
primarily of fuels necessary for all industrial sectors. In 2000 exports to formerly traditional Arab
markets were 2.4% of total exports, and imports were 0.7% of total imports. For agriculture this share was
9.5% and 2.3%, respectively. Central European Free Trade Area (CEFTA) countries had a share of 6.7%
in agricultural exports and 9.9% in imports in 2000. While former traditional markets are lost, it is
difficult for Bulgarian producers to penetrate or become established in EU markets because of high quality
standards, and the heavy subsidy levels existing in the EU.
Foreign trade in agrifood products
1200.00               17    3   - -       -
1000.0{ _
800.00 .;^ :,,,*_*=
IDAgnttood export
600.00                               l! [ >**- Zi_{ l * _ OAgriftood Import
o Trade balarnce
400.00        iiL;       1        --G         _i           _
199       |'51'2:u|X                       -'if |        t:
1995      1996      1997       1998       1999       2000
The share of agrifood products in total exports in 1995-2000 fell by half, from 21% in 1995 to 10% in
2000. The fall is less steep in 1998-2000 (by 27%) than in 1995-1997 (by 38%). However, overall the fall
in agrifood exports in period 1998-2000 against the preceding three years, is 33%. In 2000, according to
-47 -



preliminary data, exports of vegetable oils fell by over 50%, beverages by 17%, tobacco and tobacco
products by 24%, fruits and vegetables by 43% against 1999. Through the years the decline in exports of
fresh fruits and vegetables that were well-known in CEEC markets has become very noticeable, and export
volumes have fallen to symbolic levels. At the same time exports of some primary products such as maize
became significant following the fall of export bans. Exports of processed fruits and vegetables, formerly
well-established on the Russian and Arab markets, registered a sharp fall. Newly emerging companies in
the sector have now directed their exports to a new segment in the American and West European market.
Traditional Bulgarian produce such as liuteniza, kiopolu and other vegetable preserves, and feta cheese, are
in demand by the increasing number of immigrants from Russia and the CEECs in the developed countries.
Notwithstanding this success, in general the financing and organization for penetrating new markets, or
restoring lost ones, are lacking. To be established as a wine supplier to the UK market Bulgaria needed ten
years of a government sponsored and well-organized promotion campaign before 1989. The means for
such market penetration are not readily available to the fledgling recently privatized and newly established
individual companies.
The decline in agrifood imports is less marked. Imports decreased by 9% in 1998-2000 against 1995-1997.
The share of agrifood imports in total imports does not vary muchy through the years, falling from an
average of 8% to nearly 7% of total imports for the same period. Although the country continues to
maintain a surplus in the foreign trade with agrifoods, this decreased by a factor of 5 from 1995 to 2000.
Export of Some Agrifood Products in ('000 t)
Product               1995       1996      1997       1998        1999          2000
Pork                   1.1        10.6        6.7        0.3         0.1         0.2
Poultry                7.4        9.3         9.6        8.4         3.1         3.8
Cheese, white &        6.3        5.7          7         4.9         5.3         5.9
yellow
Tomatoes               3.9        5.1         2.4        1.2         0.4         0.4
Cucumbers             10.1        6.8         5.3        5.8         2.9         2.8
Grapes                 2.5        2.9         2.3        0.7         0.3         0.3
Apples                 0.4        1.4         1.2        0.1         0.1         0.1
Peaches                3.1        2.2         1.2        1.5         0.2         0.1
Maize                  0.5        0.3         7.8        108         306        121.3
Preserved tomatoes    14.7        17.5        11.7       6.6         8.1          3
Other preserved       35.2        47.7       44.3        23.6         17         11.2
vegetables
Raw tobacco           30.5        21.2        12.9       20.4        25.1        21.6
Cigarettes            60.9        40.1        25.7       10.7         4           4
Source: National Statistical Institute
- 48 -



- 49 -









CATALOGUERS/FILE        Ccssb
Report No.:     24290
Type:    ICR



