Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7454-BUL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SECOND AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 55.8 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
May 24, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 5/1/2001)
Currency Unit = Bulgarian Lev
BGN I = US$ 0.46
US$ I = BGN 2.16
BGN I  = EUR 0.51
EUR I = BGN 1.95
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January I-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASAL  -  Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
BNB  -  Bulgarian National Bank
CBA  -  Currency Board Arrangement
CCB  -  Central Cooperative Bank
CEECs  -  Central and Eastern European Countries
CMEA  -  Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
EFF  -  Extended Fund Facility
EU  -  European Union
IFI -  International Financial Intermediary
IMF  -  International Monetary Fund
ISC  -  Irrigation Systems Company
JPR  -  Joint Portfolio Review
LIBOR  -  London Inter-bank Offer Rate
MAF  -  Ministry of Agriculture & Forestry
MOE  -  Ministry of Economy
RWMC  -  Regional Water Management Company
SAPARD  -  Special Accession Program for Agriculture and Rural Development
SFA  -  State Fund Agriculture
SR  -  State Reserves
WUA  -  Water User Association
ZH  -  Zarneni Hrani
Vice President:        Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:      Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Director:       Kevin M. Cleaver
Sector Manager:        Laura Tuck
Team Leaders:          Severin Kodderitzsch & Henry Gordon



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Contents
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ...............................I
I. INTRODUCTION                                     .1
IH. THE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT                                 .2
III.   THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR BETWEEN TRANSITION AND EU ACCESSION2
A. BACKGROUND: AGRICULTURE IN THE BULGARIAN ECONOMY              .2
B.  AGRICULTURE POLICY IN TRANSITION (1989-97, 1998 ONWARDS)      .4
IV.   THE GOVERNMENT'S AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM .. 6
A. AGRICULTURAL LAND MARKET DEVELOPMENT                     .6
B. CEREAL MARKETING AND FOOD SECURITY                     .7
C.  PRIVATIZATION OF AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD ENTERPRISES .10
D. IRRIGATION SECTOR POLICIES .10
E. AGRICULTURE AND RURAL FINANCE .12
F. TRADE AND MARKET REGULATIONS .15
G. FORESTRY SECTOR .16
V. THE PROPOSED LOAN .17
A. RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES FOR THE LOAN .17
B. THE COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) AND ASAL 11 .18
C. LOAN AMOUNT AND TRANCHING .18
D. LOAN CONDITIONS                              .1 9
E. DISBURSEMENT AND PROCUREMENT .22
F. REPORTING, ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING .22
G. BENEFITS AND RISKS .23
H. IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING OF DEVELOPMENT IMPACT .24
1. POVERTY IMPLICATIONS .24
J. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT .26
VI. BANK OPERATIONS .27
VII. COLLABORATION WITH IMF, EU, JAPAN AND US .27
VIII. RECOMMENDATION ........................                                    28
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Selected Key Economic Indicators & Key Exposure Indicators
Annex 2: Status of Bank Group Operations
Annex 3: Timetable of Key Processing Events
Annex 4: Letter of Sector Policy
Annex 5: Policy reforms Program Matrix
Annex 6: Agricultural Projects by Other Donors in Bulgaria
Annex 7: Document in Project Files
Annex 8: Bulgaria at a glance
MAP
IBRD Map No. 26532R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
SECOND AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                    Republic of Bulgaria
Amount:                      EUR 55.8 million (US$ 50.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                       IBRD terms with 20 years maturity including 5 years grace period, at
the Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based single currency
loans in this currency.
Commitment Fee:              0.75 percent of undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Objectives and Description:  The objective of the loan is to support further rapid development of a
more efficient and responsive agricultural sector, the principles of
which are enunciated in the Government's medium-
term program.
The loan will support further comprehensive reform of agricultural
sector policies. Reforms will occur in the areas of land markets,
cereals markets, agriculture enterprise privatization, irrigation
institutions and legislation, agricultural subsidies and finance, trade
and regulations and forest policy.
Benefits:                    The reforms will enhance market development and increase enterprise
competitiveness. This will improve income earning opportunities for
rural producers, contribute to rural employment generation, and help
raise rural living standards. Consumers will benefit from improved
agricultural product quality and availability, greater choice, and more
efficient marketing channels.
Risks:                       The most important risks are, first, political resistance by powerful
interest groups, and second, that the program will be undermined by a
non-supportive macroeconomic environment. With regard to the first
risk, the Government of Bulgaria and the World Bank have engaged in
a broad program of consultations with stakeholders in the process of
preparing and disseminating policy notes on all the areas of reforn
supported by the ASAL, as well as a special workshop on rural
finance. To assist those who may experience negative effects in the
short term from the adjustment program, especially the poor and the
most vulnerable groups, the Government has undertaken a program to
improve its safety net system, which has been supported by a World
Bank Social Protection Adjustment Loan. The second risk is addressed
by the Government's successful implementation of a currency board
arrangement and prudent macroeconomic policies, which have resulted
i



in low inflation and a secure fiscal situation. Lastly, all conditions in
support of reforms initiated under the proposed Loan have been fully
met before presenting the operation to the Board.
Schedule of Disbursements:   FY2002 EUR 55.8
Poverty Category:            Not Applicable
Rate of Return:              Not Applicable
Project ID Number:           P057926
Map                          IBRD 26532R
Environment:                 The proposed loan has been placed in Category C.
Financing Plan:              IBRD:   EUR 55.8 million
Total:   EUR 55.8 million
Work on this operation was initially managed by John Nash and Henry Gordon (ECSSD) and later
concluded under the management of Severin Kodderitzsch and Henry Gordon (ECSSD), Co-Team
Leaders. Team members contributing to the preparation and appraisal of this operation are: Anna
Georgieva, (agriculture economist) (ECCBG); Volker Branscheidt (irrigation); Gerhard Dieterle
(forestry); Lynn Holstein (land tenure) (ECSSD); Hiran Hirat (financial management) (ECSPF); Michael
Cannon, (food safety issues) FAO; and the following consultants: Renee Giovarelli and Richard Gaynor
(mortgage issues); John Gray (public grain management); Ned Bergman and Daniel Acs (warehouse
receipts); Ken Peoples (rural finance); and Frank Naylor (credit cooperatives). Substantial assistance in
processing this operation was also provided by Laura Tuck (ECSSD), Andrew Vorkink, Ann Walsh and
Suman Mehra (ECC05); Leila Zlaoui (ECSPE); and Thomas O'Brien (ECCBG). Further Bank colleagues
involved in preparing the loan are: Hans-Jurgen Gruss, Daria Goldstein (LEGOP); Nicholay Chistyakov
(LOAEL); Ranjan Ganguli (ECSSD); Michael Nelson (operations analyst); and Sohalia Wali (team
assistant). The peer reviewers are Csaba Csaki (RDV) and Rodrigo Chaves (ECSSD).
11



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
SECOND AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed Second
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL II) to the Republic of Bulgaria for EUR 55.8 million (US$ 50.0
million equivalent) to support the Government's structural reform program in the agriculture sector. The
loan will comprise a single tranche in Euros, and will be payable in 20 years, including five years of grace,
at the Bank's standard interest rate for LIBOR-based single currency loans in this currency.
2.     The ASAL II provides foreign exchange for balance of payments support of EUR 55.8 million.
Subsequent to a first, successfully implemented agriculture sector adjustment operation (ASAL I) approved
by the Board in 1999, this loan is conditioned upon further implementation of the extensive program of
policy reform initiated in 1997 and aimed at further developing a competitive, market-based agricultural
sector. The program supported under ASAL II is the second phase of a comprehensive reform of the
agricultural sector that has been undertaken in Bulgaria. Efforts prior to 1997 at reform in most areas of
agriculture were halting, without significant impact on the degree of state domination of agricultural
markets and with only minimal development of the private sector. This situation has been significantly
altered, and the Government continues to be solidly committed to re-orient sectoral policies to make
Bulgaria a fully functioning, outward-oriented market economy and a leading candidate for EU accession as
quickly as possible. The Govemment has continued to follow-up on its statement of intentions and initial
decisive measures undertaken with support of the first agriculture sector adjustment loan provided by the
Bank, with further concrete actions during the past two years.
3.    This loan supports the Govemment's on-going efforts at reforming the agriculture sector through
the following seven components for which the Govemment has implemented a set of agreed measures: (a)
agricultural land market development; (b) cereal marketing and food security; (c) privatization of
agricultural and food enterprises; (d) irrigation sector policies; (e) agriculture and rural finance; (f) trade and
market regulations; and (g) forestry sector. The loan also supports the Govemment's medium-term
agricultural policy as set out in its ASAL II Letter of Sector Policy, included as Annex 4 of this report. In
addition, it complements other extensive reform efforts being implemented concurrently. The first is a
macroeconomic reform program under an IMF EFF (Extended Financing Facility). The second is a set of
structural reforms supported by three successive Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loans, two
completed and one currently under preparation, as well as under an Environment and Privatization Support
Adjustment Loan. The reforms pursued under ASAL II are also supportive of public and private
investments in the agriculture sector such as the EU SAPARD (Special Accession Program for Agriculture
and Rural Development) program recently approved by the EU, as well as a proposed Registration and
Cadastre Project which is scheduled for submission to the Board on June 21, 2001. The reforms improve the
policy environment for investments while such investments help to support the public infrastructure and
private sector activity needed to enhance the supply response to the reforms.



II. THE MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
4.    A long period of economic mismanagement and political instability from  1989-1996 delayed
Bulgaria's transition from plan to market by nearly a decade, leading to the collapse of the economy in
1996-97. The introduction of a Currency Board Arrangement (CBA) in July 1997 and the subsequent
implementation of sound macroeconomic and structural policies succeeded in restoring growth, abating
inflation and improving public and investors' confidence. The CBA has been underpinned by a conservative
fiscal policy and a sharp acceleration of structural reforms. The wide-ranging structural reform program
encompassed liberalization in agriculture, energy, privatization in the enterprise and financial sector, as well
as reform of the social sectors. Sound macroeconomic management and the acceleration of structural
reformns yielded positive results. Thanks to the CBA, the fiscal and monetary stance are sound and the
banking sector has also been put on a solid footing. First generation reforms, including price and trade
liberalization, have largely been implemented and the privatization/liquidation program has eliminated the
value-subtracting activities.
5.    Although output continued to decline in 1997, shortly after the introduction of he CBA, interest
rates dropped sharply, inflation declined dramatically and the fiscal deficit was reduced to sustainable
levels. Real output began to recover in 1998, recording a 3.5 percent positive growth rate, and continued in
1999 with 2.5 percent growth despite a difficult external environment marked by turmoil in international
markets, unfavorable commodity price developments and the trade disruptions associated with the Kosovo
crisis. In 2000, output marked 5 percent growth, driven by continued restructuring of the economy, and in
2001 is expected to continue at the same level of growth. The Government budget remained broadly
balanced, registering a surplus of 1.0 percent of GDP in 1998 and a deficit of the same order of magnitude
in the following two years. Inflation was contained at low single digit levels in 1998-99. Due to pressures
from international oil prices and depreciation of the Euro, inflation reached 11 percent in 2000.
6.    The recent recovery was associated with a widening current account deficit. Bulgaria's current
account balance moved from a surplus, equivalent to 4.4 percent of GDP in 1997, to a deficit of 0.5 percent
of GDP in 1998 and 5.5 percent of GDP in 1999, caused by a sharp fall in exports. The deteriorating export
performance in 1999 was attributable to a number of internal and external shocks. The ongoing enterprise
privatization and restructuring caused a number of inefficient enterprises to phase out or overhaul their
operations, temporarily reducing activity and exports. In addition, a weak international environment
marked by a global financial crisis and low commodity prices lowered significantly the external demand for
Bulgaria's products. Finally, the Kosovo conflict blocked transit routes to Western Europe, raising transport
costs and causing losses in export markets. Driven by higher demand from the Euro area, more favorable
prices for raw materials and a depreciating Euro, exports registered a 16 percent volume growth in 2000
(about 20 percent in US Dollar terms). While exports recovered substantially in 2000, the current account
deficit remained high due to a sharp increase in imports induced by higher international oil prices.
III. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR BETWEEN TRANSITION AND EU ACCESSION
A.   BACKGROUND: AGRICULTURE IN THE BULGARIAN ECONOMY
7.    Agriculture continues to be an important sector in the Bulgarian economy, and relative to other
Central and Eastern European Countries (CEECs). The sector's share in GDP-about 13 percent between
1991 and 1996-is second only to that of the sector in Romania (20 percent). Forest products account for
another 2 percent of GDP. Agriculture's share in employment, at around 20 percent, ranks fourth within the
CEEC. During the economy-wide decline after 1991, and especially the crisis in 1996-97, the significance
2



of agriculture increased in two ways. First, while the rest of the economy continued to decline in 1997,
agriculture grew by 30 percent (due to a large extent to favorable growing conditions for grains), thereby
increasing its share of GDP to a historical high of 23 percent; and contributing to 15 percent of GDP in
2000.
8.     Second, agriculture has served as a safety net to absorb some of the labor that has been released
from other sectors. Its share in employment has grown every year since 1991, reaching 26 percent by 2000.
It is the only sector in which employment actually grew continuously over this period. By share of
agriculture (including food) in total exports, Bulgaria (16 percent) ranks first among the CEECs.
Historically the country was a significant exporter of agricultural and processed products, although since
exports in this sector were oriented largely toward the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA)
markets, once these markets broke down, Bulgarian exports were in a poor position to compete in the global
economy.
9.     Agriculture is also the dominant activity in the rural economy. In rural areas, where some 32
percent of the Bulgarian population live, most households own land, following a restitution process
undertaken in the 1990s and recently completed, that widely distributed agriculture land. The average rural
household, comprised of about three persons, owns a little less than one hectare of land. This average,
however, masks farm structures that are dichotomized: a large number of small subsistence farms,
belonging to mostly older people and, on the other hand, a smaller, but significant number of commercial
farms that are managed by younger and more educated people. Agricultural production is a very important
part of total rural household income, comprising about 60 percent of total income (including the imputed
value of goods produced for home consumption), on average. Other sources of income include pensions
(about 20 percent of total household income) and wages (about 20 percent). In Bulgaria, rural poverty is
extensive, with the incidence of rural poverty about twice as high as in urban areas. In addition, the rural
poor account for 47% of the total poor in the country (this is the fourth highest contribution for the 10
CEECs for which rural poverty data are available). Poverty reduction in the country as a whole thus requires
a substantial emphasis on poverty reduction in rural areas. This in turn depends on progress in generating
broad-based agricultural growth, as at least one component of a poverty reduction strategy.
10.    Agriculture has considerable potential in Bulgaria in terms of yields and output capacity. The
country has good natural growing conditions on the two-thirds of its area that is not mountainous. It has
fertile soils in the Danube and Maritsa Plains and on its coast. The climate is mild, continental in the north
and mediterranean in the south. Of the 6.2 million hectares of arable land, about a quarter was under
irrigation before 1989, although in 2000 only some 100,000 hectares were actually irrigated due to a
dramatic deterioration of this infrastructure. Many summer crops and some winter crops require irrigation,
and water supply has not been a constraint in the past. The main crops are cereals, vegetables, and tobacco.
The major livestock products are meat, dairy and eggs. Livestock accounts for around one-third to one-half
of production value in the sector.
11.    Agricultural performance was very weak, on average, in the 1990s, and this is undoubtedly a factor
behind the relatively high levels of rural poverty. During the transition period, agriculture output (as well as
yields) fell to about 60 percent of pre-reform levels. This is partly due to the contraction of the state sector.
It also reflect the difficulties experienced by private farmers and entrepreneurs facing nascent commodity
and input markets. During this period the livestock sector contracted drastically, in terms of the number of
animals, which declined sharply, as well as livestock yields. Though the share of agriculture products in
total exports and imports has remained fairly stable at 16 percent and 6 percent, respectively, exports and
imports of agricultural and food products in 2000 are only at one-third to one-quarter of their 1989 levels,
reflecting the general decline in Bulgaria's overall trade. The most important export products are wine,
tobacco, fresh and processed fruit and vegetables. Substantial changes have occurred in the flow of trade,
with a reorientation of exports and imports away from the former CMEA markets to OECD countries. The
European Union (EU) has become Bulgaria's most important trading partner, accounting for around one-
3



third of the country's trade in agriculture and processed food products though the total value of these exports
to the EU has remained stable since 1992.
12.    Forest land represents roughly one-third of the land area in Bulgaria. Traditionally, forestry and
wood based industries were important exporters and played a significant role in the Bulgarian economy. Far
more important for the future of the country, however, are the environmental, biodiversity and recreational
forest benefits. Forests directly protect water in over two thousand reservoirs that are used for irrigation,
hydroelectric power and municipal water supply. Bulgaria is the third richest country in Europe in
biological diversity and has many endemic species.
B.   AGRICULTURE POLICY IN TRANSITION (1989-97, 1998 ONWARDS)
13.    The pace of structural reforms in agriculture was slow during the first half of the 1990s. Since 1997,
the Government has introduced a remarkable reform program in the sector during which first generation
reforms, including agriculture price and trade liberalization, were largely implemented and privatization of
agriculture enterprise and agro-industries made significant progress. The Government has over the past two
years initiated second generation-type reforms related to establishing an institutional and regulatory
framework for the sector as well as completing earlier reforms associated with land markets and the
privatization agenda that will need to be further implemented and continued in the medium term. As a result
of the efforts undertaken in the sector over the past years, Bulgaria has entered into initial discussions with
the EU on aligning agriculture policies with those of the Union in the context of the EU membership
accession process. The following outlines key elements and outcomes of the past agriculture sector
transition process.
14.    During much of the 1990s, agriculture in Bulgaria continued to be plagued by a legacy of central
planning and state-ownership. Although Bulgaria notionally started the transition in 1989, in reality it
moved so slowly, in particular with regard to agriculture, that as of 1996 incentives and institutions differed
little in many fundamental ways from those under central planning. By the end of 1996, farmers were faced
with an incentive regime that resulted in significant (implicit) taxation of the sector and which was amongst
one of the most distorted amongst CEEC countries. More than in most other CEECs, agriculture in Bulgaria
was organized in very large state-operated farms during the communist era. At the beginning of the
transition, the Government's first priority was to dismantle the most visible symbols of the past regime-the
agro-industrial complexes. This was given priority over other reforms in the areas of pricing policy and
privatization, and the ad hoc manner in which it was carried out led to considerable, internally generated
supply-side disruptions. The latter were magnified by sharp falls in demand for agriculture products which
were due to declines in both domestic demand as the economy contracted, and external demand as
Bulgaria's traditional trading relations in the CMEA disintegrated.
15.    Bulgaria's agricultural trade regime has been characterized by tremendous policy instability since
1991, despite removal of import and export licensing requirements in that year for many products and
removal of some trading restrictions on private and state trading organizations. This early liberalization
notwithstanding, non-tariff trade policy measures were used intermittently by the Government until 1998.
Price instability was severe up to 1998, especially affecting grains, oilseeds and their derivative products.
As direct control mechanisms used under central planning were reduced during the 1990s, there was a
tendency to use trade policy for very detailed, short-term intervention aimed at micro-managing domestic
supplies and prices. Instruments for implementation of this policy abounded, and included automatic and
non-automatic licenses (import and export); export quotas, taxes and bans; minimum import and export
prices; and duty free import quotas. Pricing and trade policy during the transition were driven by a
preoccupation with providing low-priced domestically produced food for the urban population. The
mechanism for implementing this policy-the "material balances" approach-in some important respects
4



resembled that of central planning. Prices of important food products were set by the Government until
1997. Producer prices of the major crops were held by this system at levels far below those that would have
been received in a liberal trading environment. The large gap between world and domestic prices also
generated huge incentives to evade export controls, and led to extensive corruption and illegal exports. In
1996, the effects of these policy problems combined with poor weather resulted in a dramatic fall in
production, particularly of grains, production of which fell by almost 50 percent (compared to 1995). The
harvest shortfall produced a domestic grain shortage, which was exacerbated by widespread illegal exports.
This was one facet of the generalized economic chaos that led to the downfall of the socialist party
government at that time. Fear of a repetition of these shortages continues to shape policies of the current
Government.
16.    Bulgaria joined the World Trade Organization on January 1, 1997. In 1998, the Government
initiated comprehensive agriculture policy reforms with support of the Bank under ASAL I. This was the
first attempt by a Government in Bulgaria to carry out far-reaching structural reforms in the agriculture
sector since the beginning of the economic transition in 1989. The overriding focus of this initial phase of
structural reforms in the agriculture sector was on liberalizing the incentives regime for agriculture by
introducing major changes of trade and price policies. Secondly, the Government made significant progress
with regard to land reform, associated with land restitution and titling, as well as the privatization agenda for
state-owned agriculture and food industry enterprises. Lastly, the Government initiated a set of institutional
and regulatory reforms aimed at strengthening private grain markets and rural finance.
17.    The initial phase of reforms supported under ASAL I was implemented successfully'. In the area of
agriculture incentives, the policy regime was liberalized and was made substantially more stable, among
other measures, by removing non-tariff barriers such as import quotas and export licenses. Agro-industrial
enterprise privatization also made significant progress under the Government's reform program. Around 75
percent of former state-owned agriculture enterprises were privatized. In addition, Zameni Hrani (ZH), the
former state-owned enterprise charged with purchasing and processing grains, and until recently
implementing Government interventions in grain markets, was largely privatized (around 50 percent of
assets sold) and closed, and around 20 percent of storage facilities transferred to the State Reserves (SR). In
the area of land policy, the initial phase of the Government's reform program was instrumental in moving
ahead land restitution (reaching 80 percent) and land titling (35 percent). Public lending to agriculture
through the State Fund Agriculture (SFA) was also significantly reduced.
18.    Further to the reforms undertaken during an initial phase in 1997 to 1999, the Government has
continued to see the need to deepen and broaden these efforts in order to hasten the development of market
processes and to start preparing the sector for EU membership by improving sector competitiveness. The
institutional and regulatory environment has continued to suffer from the absence of a land registration and
cadastre law which impeded the development of a functioning land market. Rural financial services
remained dominated by public sector involvement through the Central Cooperative Bank (CCB) and the
SFA. While promising steps have been undertaken to introduce a warehouse receipts system, further
regulatory and institutional steps are required to allow widespread use of this important trading and
financing instrument. In addition, the use of agricultural land as collateral continues to be hampered by the
absence of a functioning mortgage law and associated regulations. Lastly, the role of the SR is in the
process of being redefined in the aftermath of abolishing ZH to ensure that its role is limited to handling
emergency situations rather than being used for the purpose of intervening on grain and other markets in an
ad hoc manner. Given that agriculture reform began to be addressed in earnest only after 1997, much work
remains in progress.
See also World Bank: Bulgaria: ASAL. Implementation Completion Report March 2000 (Report Number 20227).
5



IV. THE GOVERNMENT'S AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
19.    With the completion of the initial phase of the reform program, the Government has embarked on a
second phase of reforms, with increasing emphasis on meeting the requirements resulting for EU accession.
The Government recognizes that the initial reform phase laid the foundation for further actions now being
supported under ASAL II, and the Government will continue to sustain those actions carried out to date. The
Government also recognizes that structural changes in the agriculture sector require time and call for phased
implementation.
20.    The following discussion summarizes issues, Government objectives, measures undertaken to date,
and those to be implemented in the medium term, for each of the following seven key policy areas of the
Government's Agriculture Sector Adjustment Program: (a) agricultural land market development; (b)
cereals marketing and food security; (c) privatization of agricultural and food enterprises; (d) irrigation
sector policies; (e) agriculture and rural finance; (f) trade and market regulations; and (g) forestry
sector.
A.    AGRICULTURAL LAND MARKET DEVELOPMENT
21.   Issues. The period of land reform has been rather difficult and painful for the Bulgarian food and
agriculture sector. While much progress has been made over the recent past years, several important
components of the land reform were still not fully completed by the end of 1999, such as full land restitution
and titling; creation of functioning land and lease markets, and comprehensive title registration.
22.    The settlement of land ownership issues in Bulgaria was undertaken through a land restitution
process and privatization of state-owned farms. The process of land restitution started in 1991 with the
registration of claims, the re-establishment of ownership based on old boundaries (or agreement on a
reallocation plan), and finished with a certification which could be used to register ownership.
Implementation was managed by the Municipal Land Commissions under Ministry of Agriculture &
Forestry (MAF) which are being restructured.
23.    Restoring former ownership rights to the status of fifty years ago, when neither the corresponding
structures of production, nor proper records of the previous boundaries existed, was a costly, labor-
intensive, and complicated exercise. Restoration of the old boundaries has been impossible in most cases.
The attempt to provide an acceptable replacement for the claimants often ended in court procedures. The
task was further complicated by the fact that ownership was restituted in the first phase to the initial owner;
but most of these owners are deceased and have a variety of heirs, which results in time-consuming
inheritance debates. Frequent amendments to the relevant legislation, which has been amended 25 times
since its inception, have compounded these difficulties.
24.    By end 1999, and during the initial reform phase supported under ASAL 1, the Government had (a)
restituted 80 percent of agricultural land eligible for restitution, (b) completed issuance of ownership
documents on around 35 percent of the agricultural land area eligible for restitution, (c) reduced the
conveyance tax on land transactions to a minimum so as not to impede exchange of agricultural land, (d)
submitted a Law on Cadastre and Property Register, satisfactory to the Bank, to the National Assembly, (e)
amended the Land Leasing Law, thereby eliminating the upper limit on area that can be leased, and (f)
amended the Land Law to eliminate ceilings on land sales (which had in the past been established at 30
hectares for a period of two years after restitution).
25.    Obiectives: The Government recognizes that to achieve rapid and sustained agricultural growth in
Bulgaria, land must be put to its most productive use. The Government has put a high priority on the
6



completion of land restitution and titling. The aim of the Government's effort in the area of land policy is to
strengthen the security of private land ownership in rural areas and to improve the functioning of land
markets.
26.    Measures undertaken since ASAL I / Conditions of ASAL II. To that effect, over 95 percent of
agricultural land eligible for restitution has been restituted to fonner owners or their heirs together with
documents equivalent to a land title (consisting of a land commission decision and a parcel sketch map).
This is an increase of 15 percentage points since ASAL I. Also, the Government presented to Parliament,
and the latter approved on April 12, 2000, a modem Law on Cadastre and Property Register. A new
Cadastre Agency has since been established and operates in the 28 regions of Bulgaria. This law and the
associated institutional developments provide an adequate legal basis for future efforts in registering land
titles and establishing a national cadastre for real estate which is now being supported under a proposed
Registration and Cadastre Project with the assistance of Bank financing. In addition, MAF has prepared and
implemented an on-going land information dissemination program, involving the establishment of a
countrywide land listing service which is freely accessible over the Internet. This web-based land listing
service now covers the entire country, and is available to anyone with internet access. Public access has
been provided throughout Bulgaria at MAF's 28 regional offices.
27.    Medium term plans and actions. The Government has prepared a project with Bank support that
will modernize its land registration and cadastre system, and register titles issued during the land restitution
process. This will be implemented over a five year period through the Ministry of Justice and the new
Cadastre Agency under the proposed Registration and Cadastre Project planned for launching in October
2001. Also, in conjunction with the latter, MAF will carry out a public information campaign informing the
public that a land commission decision together with a parcel sketch map is equivalent to a notary deed or
title (and that this title equivalent is no longer subject to appeal).
B.   CEREAL MARKETING AND FOOD SECURITY
28.   Issues. Cereals have always been the most important group in Bulgarian crop production,
accounting for about half of the arable land used, and providing food for consumers and key inputs to the
domestic livestock industry. Among cereals, the most important is wheat. Its significance is due to its large
share of output and agricultural exports, but also its contribution to national food security. Yet, the trade and
price policy framework pursued during the first half of the 1990s for the agriculture sector in general, and
especially cereals, proved disastrous, resulting in high levels of (implicit) taxation for cereals with the aim
of providing revenue for the Government and cheap food for the urban population. This depressed
incentives for the private sector to produce, as well as to trade, store and process cereals. These policies,
compounded by poor weather conditions, contributed to the severe economic crisis experienced in Bulgaria
in 1996, during which wheat shortages occurred and bread lines reappeared.
29.    Major elements of the trade and price policy regime at that time, which took considerable effort to
change, consisted of (a) control on profit margins of food and agriculture products, (b) import duties and
quotas on most cereals and cereal products, (c) export bans, (d) control on maximum prices at which
farmers could sell at farm gate, (e) non-tariff barriers against fertilizer trade (thus raising the price of a key
agriculture input) and (e) subsidies provided to processors of cereal products. Many of these policies were
implemented through a public grain intervention agency, Zameni Hrani, which intervened in the cereals
market with the aim to influence marketed quantities and prices established. As of early 1997, the result of
these policies and of Zarneni Hrani operations was (i) a legacy of poorly developed private grain markets
caused by the unpredictability and non-transparency of policy actions and a preference for state-owned
milling enterprises which had continued access to credit through state guarantees; (ii) compression of
seasonal price increases thereby reducing incentives for storage and thus further crowding out the private
sector as well as undermining investments in storage infrastructure; and (iii) a retarding of the development
7



of viable agriculture and rural financial services, in part by linking public agriculture credit made available
through the State Fund Agriculture to mandatory sales to Zarneni Hrani.
30.    During the first phase of agriculture policy reform, the Government which took office in 1997
undertook far reaching steps to change both the public policy framework but also to support the private
sector in developing cereal markets. This included the following major changes in the trade regime: (i)
elimination of all quantitative restrictions on international trade in agricultural products; of all controls on
prices of agricultural products, and termination of the contract pricing system which monitored wholesale
and retail prices and margins; (ii) elimination of registration, licensing, and contract approval requirements
for exports and imports of agricultural products; (iii) elimination of export taxes for all agricultural
products, with the exception of unprocessed timber and lumber; and (iv) liberalization of the import tariff
regime by eliminating tariff exemptions for all agricultural products, and reducing import tariffs on nitrogen
fertilizers to no more than 35 percent. In addition to these measures, the Council of Ministers approved an
ordinance allowing automatic registration within Bulgaria of seed varieties listed in the EU Common
Catalogue. To date, and compared to most other CEEC economies, Bulgaria has a very limited intervention
program in agriculture.
31.    Additional measures were implemented in the cereals sector. The Government closed Zameni Hrani
(which has now ceased to exist as legal entity) and privatized the major share of its storage facilities to
private sector traders and millers and to the SR. A significant share of the state-owned milling industries
were privatized and SFA agriculture credit policies changed, ending the requirement that borrowers sell
their output to a public agency. Public grain storage capacities as well as grain stocks held by the SR were
limited for the purpose of mitigating emergency situations only, without aiming to further intervene or
stabilize grain markets. And finally, the Government with the assistance of US$A, ACDl/VOCA and the
Bank made significant progress in setting up the institutions necessary for an efficient private trading
system, the cornerstone of which is a warehouse receipt system.
32.    While Zarneni Hrani has been dismantled, the State Reserves Agency continues to make quite large
purchases and sales that are seasonally concentrated and have a large impact on market prices, thereby
negatively affecting private storage incentives and expectations. The Government has maintained public
grain inventories under the SR roughly at levels established under ASAL I (i.e. around 320,000 tons). While
under ASAL I the objective had been to gradually reduce the levels of grain inventories held by the SR, in
the light of recent developments in the region associated with the Kosovo conflict but also more recent civil
strife in Macedonia, as well as of the significant drought experienced in 2000 which Bulgaria is currently
ill-equipped to mitigate given the state of the irrigation sector, the Government continues to feel the need, at
this relatively early stage of grain market development, to maintain emergency public grain reserves at
levels roughly similar to those established under ASAL I. Though the Government intends to maintain SR
grain levels at roughly the same volume, it is also aware of the market effect of SR stock rotation
transactions and, therefore, of the need to improve the way SR operates to mitigate such effects on grain
markets.
33.    Lastly, current VAT administration practices and associated VAT refunding procedures can impose
important financial costs on market participants and may be undermining the development of grain markets,
and the markets of other major agriculture commodities, such as meat and wine. The magnitude of these
costs are potentially large for both exporters and domestic traders, but also the farming community at large.
34.    Obiectives: The Government continues to be committed to maintaining the policy stance adopted
and implemented during the first phase of agriculture reforms and to further support the development of
private cereals and oilseed markets while maintaining food security. The Government also aims to further
improve the conditions for the functioning of a warehouse receipt and grain trading systems. The
Government's objectives in the cereals sub-sector are to encourage the development of a thriving private
sector for storing and marketing grains, which will be the primary source of the country's food security,
8



while preserving a very limited role for state action in the case of true emergency situations. The
Government recognizes that food security does not imply self-sufficiency, but rather the assurance that even
in crisis situations, the minimum food needs of the country will be assured, whether through domestic or
intemational markets. With regard to the SR, the aim is to reduce the adverse market effects and fiscal costs
of the SR operations while maintaining food security at the national level.
35.    Measures undertaken since ASAL I / Conditions of ASAL II. To improve the predictability and
transparency of the SR, the Government has adopted a regulation, satisfactory to the Bank, that explicitly
establishes that SR grain inventories are maintained exclusively for emergency purposes and which, other
than for rotation purposes with the aim of maintaining grain quality in stock, may only be released in the
event of defined emergencies. This regulation also establishes the operating procedures for sales and
purchases of grain inventory for rotation purposes with the aim of minimizing the market impact of such
transactions. The regulation also requires the SR to improve its financial and inventory management
systems, for which efforts have already been initiated by the SR over the past year. The Government,
through the SR, has, over the past months, initiated the preparation of draft legislation aiming at changing
the status of the SR from an agency bound by state secrecy to a public institution subject to full public
disclosure.
36.    With regard to strengthening the warehouse receipt system, the Government has (i) adopted the
relevant decree regulating the operations of indemnity funds and (ii) formally required full and public on-
site disclosure of the terms, conditions and limits of Licensed Public Warehouses and Licensed Grain
Stores, reflecting the two levels of licensing provided by the National Grain Service under a two-tier
warehousing system.
37.    Medium tern plans and actions. The Government continues to be committed to abstaining from
establishing a market stabilization or intervention agency, with the exception of the intervention facility
required to implement the EU's Common Agriculture Policy. It intends to ensure full compliance with the
above mentioned regulation pertaining to the operations of the SR, in particular with regard to grain stock
release associated with emergency situations but also with regard to sales and purchases of grains for the
purpose of rotating inventories. The SR will implement, and the Government will supervise, the
establishment of a robust financial and inventory management system. The Government will also require the
SR to further privatize grain storage facilities and, to the extent possible, increase the share of SR
inventories stored in private, licensed warehouses. The Government will further seek to pass legislation with
Parliament aiming at changing the status of the SR to a public institution, subject to full public disclosure,
thus improving transparency and accountability of the SR. With the aim of supporting further expansion of
exports markets in grains (but also meat and wine) as well as of domestic grain markets, the Government
will also review the administrative procedures associated with the value-added tax (VAT) for marketing and
trade of agriculture and food products with the aim of improving the efficiency and effectiveness of these
procedures, in particular with regard to VAT refunds.
38.    With regard to the development and use of warehouse receipts in Bulgaria, the Government will (i)
support the establishment of an association of licensed warehouse operators; (ii) phase out storage subsidies
to farmers as available storage capacity with Licensed Public Warehouses expands in the future; and (iii)
unify the two-tier licensing system such that only one single category of warehouses are licensed and
eligible to issue warehouse receipts, while allowing other unlicensed warehouses to store grain, but not to
issue warehouse receipts. Lastly, the Government will aim at harmonizing domestic grain grades with EU
grades.
9



C.   PRIVATIZATION OF AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD ENTERPRISES.
39.    State enterprises have dominated Bulgaria's economy and have played a major role in its poor
performance. Progress in the Government's overall privatization program was very slow until 1997, largely
because of a lack of political will by previous governments. State-owned enterprises in the agriculture sector
are owned by MAF (including farms, flour mills, seed companies and others) while those in the food
industry are under the Ministry of Economy (MOE). By mid-1999 and supported through ASAL I, some 85
percent of long term assets in the food industries had been privatized. The figure for MAF's privatization
portfolio amounted to 60 percent, with specific branches of enterprises as follows: 70 percent of grain
milling capacity, 14 out of 24 Sortovi Semena (seed) enterprises, and 50 percent of Zarneni Hrani storage
capacity.
40.    Obiectives: GOB  aims to complete the privatization of agro-industrial enterprises (primary
production, food industry, fertilizer and other farm input related as well as machinery companies) owned by
MAF and by the MOE.
41.    Measures undertaken since ASAL I / Conditions of ASAL II. MAF has privatized or initiated
liquidation (with appointment of a liquidator) of at least 75 percent of all long-term assets in its privatization
portfolio, an increase of 20 percentage points from ASAL I. With regard to specific branches of enterprises,
MAF has privatized or initiated liquidation for at least 95 percent of all milling capacity (an increase of 25
points over ASAL I), at least 90 percent of assets held by Sortovi Semena (seed) enterprises, and all asset
held by the former Zarneni Hrani. MOE has substantially completed privatization of food industry
enterprises under its responsibility by selling 95 percent of long term assets in its portfolio, an increase of 10
percentage points over ASAL I.
42.    Medium-term plans and actions. With the privatization of farm units and input and food processing
enterprises substantially finished, the Government will endeavor to fully complete privatization of all
remaining agriculture and agribusiness related enterprises remaining in public ownership.
D.   IRRIGATION SECTOR POLICIES
43.    Issues. Irrigation has been practiced in Bulgaria for centuries. During the communist period about
1.3 million hectares was brought under irrigation. Currently, less than 8 percent of the areas once developed
for irrigation (less than some 100,000 hectares) is actually under cultivation with irrigation technologies.
Partly due to the design of irrigation infrastructure, which was oriented to support agricultural production of
very large farms and not necessarily geared towards efficiency considerations, much of this infrastructure
has since fallen into disrepair. Added to this problem is the absence of suitable irrigation institutions, along
with budgetary constraints on payment for operation and maintenance (O&M). Without corrective
measures, the physical decline of the irrigation infrastructure could continue unabated with the remaining
irrigation schemes declining at a rate of around 35,000 hectares per year. The effects of this decline were
painfully exposed during the recent drought of 2000. The Government has now decided to implement a new
irrigation strategy based on a revised institutional framework which prominently focuses on the
participation of Water Users Associations (WUAs). Over the long run this could lead to the rehabilitation
of some 800,000 hectares of economically viable irrigation infrastructure.
44.   In 1993, the Government transformed the former Irrigation Management Agency under MAF into
the Irrigation Systems Company (ISC), a Government-owned joint stock company, responsible for O&M of
the Bulgaria's public water and irrigation infrastructure. The change from an agency to a company made the
ISC one step removed from MAF direct oversight and accountability. However, the ISC remained
overstaffed, under-budgeted, and unable to ensure timely delivery of irrigation water to farmers at
10



reasonable cost. As a result, ISC's income from water charges was limited, maintenance was further
neglected and operations reduced to very low levels. In spite of large budget transfers, the ISC incurred
losses on operating irrigation infrastructure on the order of US$2 million per year.
45.    The disintegration of irrigation infrastructure and the failure of the ISC to stem the decline of this
sub-sector led the Government to request an irrigation working group comprised of senior Bulgarian
irrigation experts (with technical assistance from Bank staff and consultants) to prepare an irrigation
development strategy. This was completed in 1999. This strategy emphasizes: (a) transfer of authority (and
at a later stage, ownership) to manage irrigation infrastructure from the state to farmer-based water users
organizations, (b) establishment of a Water Management Agency under the authority of MAF, and (c)
reorganization of the ISC into smaller, regionally based units. The irrigation development strategy envisages
subdivision of the ISC into 10 Regional Water Management Companies (RWMC) which will be supervised
by the Water Management Agency, implement the Government policy of establishing WUAs, and be
responsible for rehabilitation and O&M of the main irrigation infrastructure as well as delivery of irrigation
water to WUAs. A Law on Water Users Associations was prepared in the 1999 and 2000. Statutes were also
drafted for the Irrigation Agency which entrust the future Water Management Agency with the mandate to
implement government policies in this sub-sector, promote the establishment of WUAs, and supervise the
ten RWMCs responsible for managing water and irrigation infrastructure. While preparing this irrigation
development strategy with assistance from the Bank, the Government has also been exploring the possibility
of obtaining support to finance rehabilitation and repair investments in irrigation infrastructure under the
EU's SAPARD program.
46.    Obiectives: To increase agricultural production, to facilitate the growing of high-value crops as
well as to mitigate the effects of frequent droughts, the Government is aiming to re-launch the irrigation
sub-sector through the rehabilitation and repair of economically viable parts of the existing irrigation
infrastructure.
47.   Measures undertaken since ASAL I / Conditions of ASAL 11. MAF has prepared an Irrigation
Development Strategy. The Government has presented and Parliament has adopted a Law on Water Users
Associations. The Council of Ministers has approved the statutes of a new Water Management Agency
which will be responsible for implementing the Government's irrigation policies supporting the
development of future WUAs and directly supervising the ten legally independent regional water
companies. As a result, the ISC in its present form will cease to exist.
48.   Medium term plans and actions. The Government will carry out public investments in irrigation on
the basis of economic criteria and will write off schemes that are no longer economically viable. The
Government will implement the institutional reforms associated with the new Law on Water Users
Associations and the Statutes of the new Water Management Agency and the reorganization of the ISC. It
will transfer the usufruct rights on infrastructure to WUAs at the time of their establishment, conferring
ownership rights at the option of the users. The Government will also provide WIUAs with the right to
federate into larger associations and to take over larger irrigation infrastructure.
49.    The on-going re-organization of the irrigation sub-sector involves, at present, three sets of
institutions, i.e. one Water Management Agency, ten RWMCs and numerous WUAs. The implementation
of this re-organization will take time. Ultimately, after a transition period, the Government envisages the
possibility of only two sets of institutions engaged in this sub-sector: the Irrigation Agency as a regulatory
body within the MAF and the WUAs as owners of the irrigation infrastructure, being responsible for O&M
of the network and possibly for investments in its improvement and modernization. During a transition
period, the Government envisages that the regional ISCs should fill a functional gap between the newly
established WJUAs - these having initially only 'usufruct' rights - and the Irrigation Agency. The RWMCs
will operate and maintain the major water and irrigation infrastructure and supply irrigation water to WUAs
(up to the entrance of on-farm irrigation schemes). Over time, the stronger WUAs will become owners of
11



smaller, and progressively, larger water and irrigation infrastructure and thereby gradually assume the
responsibilities of the RWMCs, as well assets and their staff. To support this development, the Government
envisages issuing regulations in the near future allowing for the representatives of WUAs to be on the board
of directors of the RWMCs.
50.    As not all of the existing irrigation schemes will be economically viable after rehabilitation, careful
economic, technical and social evaluations will be required. This includes assessing farmers' interest in
participating in rehabilitation activities. As regards technical evaluation, an inventory needs to be made of
all potential schemes. Schemes which are obviously uneconomic, such as those requiring pumping to great
heights, needing major investments or having drainage problems, should be excluded up-front. The
remainder should be ranked according to their economic efficiency and other criteria such as environmental
compliance, social impact, rainfall zone, potential cropping pattern, cost per hectare, dam safety and other
criteria. Rehabilitation activities should range from repair work to replacement of structures, but only to the
minimum degree necessary. Works like relining of entire canals or modernizing functioning structures
should be excluded initially. A phased approach to implementation is suggested allowing initial coverage of
about 250,000 ha.
E.   AGRICULTURE AND RURAL FINANCE
51.    Further to the collapse of the banking sector in 1996 which resulted in the bankruptcy of around
one-quarter of Bulgaria's financial institutions, the soundness of the banking sector has improved
significantly, thanks to the introduction of the CBA and the subsequent banking sector privatization and
consolidation, as well as the tightening of bank regulations and supervision. While the country's banking
sector is now liquid and profitable, financial intermediation remains low as both depositors and lenders were
hurt by the collapse of the banking system and now behave with extreme caution. The caution exercised by
a recently recovered banking sector is one factor underlying the low levels of agriculture finance provided
by banks, as well as the very limited scope of financial services provided in rural areas. Other factors
include high risk associated with lending to agriculture (limited profitability, high risk from weather,
international price movements, co-variance risk), difficulties of enforcing loan collection, and high
transaction costs associated with large numbers of relatively small loans. While over the past years
availability of short-term credit through private channels (especially traders and input suppliers) has much
improved, long term finance to the sector remains scarce.
52.    The Government's main response to the perceived scarcity of agricultural finance during the
disastrous agriculture year of 1996 was to expand the activities of SFA in 1995 as a major provider of
agriculture finance and subsidies to the sector. The SFA was established under the Ministry of Agriculture
as the primary conduit of public short-term and long-term finance to agriculture, either provided directly to
final borrowers or channeled through commercial banks. It has also been the institution responsible for
representing the Government's minority ownership interest in CCB (as the public shares in CCB held by the
SFA have now been transferred to the Bank Consolidation Company to be sold to private investors, the SFA
has no further role in the CCB.) Lastly it is in the process of becoming the institution responsible for
administrating the grants provided under the EU SAPARD program. In 1997, SFA provided significant
amounts of short-term agricultural credit on the order of 2-3 percent of agricultural GDP, through multiple
lending tools, the most important of which was a loan guarantee scheme for wheat purchases. While this
loan guarantee scheme has since been first modified and subsequently abandoned, the main issue with
continued SFA short term credit is that it tends to crowd out private sector activity in rural financial markets
(and at that time, also, in grain markets, as the ultimate borrowers of the loan guarantee scheme were limited
to Zarneni Hrani and a further twenty state purchasing companies and mills.)
53.    The Government and the Bank have agreed to a phased restructuring of SFA's activities focusing
initially on short-term credit and in a second step on long-term finance. The SFA will be the counterpart
12



agency for pre-accession funds under the EU's SAPARD. Thus, while its lending and guarantee activities
will reduce over time as private lending increases, it cannot be simply abolished but must be restructured so
as to perform its new role.
54.    As short-term supplier and other production credit grows, the Government has been ready to reduce
its short-term allocation to finance agriculture production. Thus, the phase-out was initiated by a 25 percent
reduction of SFA short-term finance from 1998 to 1999. Short-term credit was further reduced to around
BGN 30 million in 2000. With regard to long-term credit, SFA has introduced a set of principles aiming to
improve allocation of resources and credit collection. First, investment loans will be amortized over the life
of the loan, with at least annual payments of principal. Second, criteria for bank eligibility to participate in
SFA programs will be established (e.g. minimum balance sheet standards) so as not to exclude or
discriminate against good candidates. SFA will exclude from SFA programs banks having more than 10
percent of non-performing loans in aggregate in their loan portfolio. Finally, SFA's interest rate charge on
its long-term funds to banks (for on-lending to borrowers for investments) will be increased towards market
levels.
55.    The SFA has since modified the conditions for long-term lending closer to market terms. In year
2000 it also introduced partial risk guarantees for agricultural machinery as part of a structured machinery
finance. The five year loan structure involves: am SFA guarantee, a supplier guarantee, commercial bank
credit, a borrower down payment as well as an equipment re-marketing agreement with the supplier/dealer,
and an agreed commitment on the part of international suppliers and their dealer network to service the
Bulgarian market with spare parts and maintenance services. The machinery being serves as collateral for
the loan. All participants evaluate the credit risk of each transaction. In 2000, this SFA program has
generated nearly 300 agricultural equipment loans, primarily for tractors and combines in the value of BGN
13 million (US$6.5 million). The Government anticipates that as commercial banks become more
comfortable with the loan performance, banks are more likely to make these loans without guarantees,
enabling SFA to retreat from the market. Gradually reducing the amount of guarantee coverage and
lowering the amount of deposit required will also encourage banks to make such loans without state support.
56.   In addition, the Government has supported the development of credit cooperatives through the
assistance of EU PHARE, begun in 1994. The Banking Law allows only those credit cooperatives
established under the above initiative (there are 33) to carry out limited financial activities. The low loan
default rate for these 33 credit cooperatives has spurred interest in given them permanent status and the
ability to take deposits as a funding source. The Government is now in the process of drafting legislation on
savings and credit cooperatives aimed at ensuring adequate prudential regulation, appropriate deposit
protection and adequate governance controls.
57.    The Government has also been reviewing the adequacy of mortgage legislation with a broad
spectrum of stakeholders, including bankers, lawyers, real estate brokers, notaries, land commissions, local
Government officials, judges, debtors, concerned ministries, and Parliamentarians. Overall there is a
consensus that the Contracts and Obligations Act establishes an adequate basis for the creation of
mortgages, but that the foreclosure procedures described in the Code of Civil Procedure require
improvement. Lenders in particular feel that the process for obtaining a writ of execution and conducting a
public sale of foreclosed property is too long and costly, especially if the debtor wishes to delay the process.
Problems also exist from the debtor's perspective: the legislation lacks adequate provisions for debtor notice
of default, and right to contest and cure default. In addition to the Government's review of legislation, an
independent initiative is currently underway by the Association of Commercial Banks to suggest revisions
to the Code of Civil Procedure regarding land mortgage. The Government anticipates that this work may
lead to legislative changes in the medium termn.
13



58.    Objectives: The Government aims to support the development of a legal and institutional
framework conducive to sustainable financial intermediation in rural areas so as to ensure efficient resource
allocation and a broad range of financial services for farmers and rural entrepreneurs.
59.   Measures undertaken since ASAL I / Conditions of ASAL II
1. Central Cooperative Bank (CCB): The Government has issued a decision on privatizing all
MAF/State Fund Agriculture (SFA) shares through the Bank Consolidation Company (BCC). All
SFA shares have been transferred to BCC.
2. SFA short term credit: The Government has continued to reduce the budget allocations to SFA with
an allocation for short term credit during FY01 of BGN 27 million (US$12.5 million), down from
BGN 30 million in FY00.
3. SFA long term finance portfolio: The Government has limited the annual budget allocations to SFA
for all long-term loan funding (directed and bank intermediated) to a maximum of BGN 26 million
(US$12 million). During FY01 the SFA aims to shift from bank-intermnediated lending of SFA
funds to underwriting of guarantees for commercial bank loans (this is demonstrated in SFA's FY01
program submitted to the Government.) The guarantee portion of SFA's portfolio is envisaged to
increase to 75 percent in 2001.
4. SFA credit loan guarantees: (i) SFA has limited its guarantee coverage in FY01 to a maximum of
70 percent of the total loan amount on loans to agriculture; (ii) SFA has also modified its practice of
placing deposits constituting the full loan guarantee coverage in participating banks, so that in 2001
SFA has reduced such deposits to no more than 50 percent of the loan amount guaranteed on an
individual loan basis; and (iii) SFA has linked the interest charged on such deposits more closely to
market rates (interest charged will be a minimum of 0.45 times the Bulgarian National Bank (BNB)
base rate).
5. SFA long term lending through commercial banks: SFA has formally and in writing informed banks
with which it has framework agreements that as of October 1, 2001, the cost of funds for banks
participating in SFA bank-intermediated lending schemes will be moved closer to market-
determnined rates (by establishing SFA cost of funding to be no less than 0.65 times the BNB base
rate); and that lending provided directly from SFA to final borrowers will be adjusted to these
conditions.
60.   Medium term plans and actions:
1. Savings and Credit Cooperatives. The Government is considering submission of a Law on Savings
and Credit Cooperatives to Parliament. This law would provide for adequate depositor protection,
sound financial governance and strong regulatory oversight by the banking authorities. Following
adoption by Parliament of new SCC legislation, existing credit cooperatives will be registered under
the new legislation in a timely manner. In addition, adequate resources would be provided to the
bank regulator to ensure adequate regulation, examination, and supervision of credit and savings
cooperatives.
2. Mortgage Legislation. The Government intends to take steps to improve the legal framework for
mortgage lending, including lending against agricultural land. Improvements will be made in the
Code of Civil Procedure, particularly to clarify procedures for 'realization against collateral'
(foreclosure). These will aim to achieve a reasonable balance between the interests of debtors and
creditors. Revisions will also be made to the Contracts and Obligations Act, particularly to
14



provisions that establish priority among creditors, to the extent that such provisions are inconsistent
or conflict with other legislation.
3. Central Cooperative Bank (CCB). The Government, through BCC, will sell all public shares in
CCB.
4. State Fund Agriculture (SFA). The Government will progressively reduce budget allocations for all
SFA short-term credit programs in years following 2001, aiming to reach a zero allocation by 2004
(the zero allocation will be reflected in the draft 2004 budget submitted in year 2003). The
Government will in the future maintain the ceiling established on SFA long term lending, and will
explore means of further reducing this ceiling in the medium term. The Government will also
regularly review the terms and conditions of credit guarantees provided by SFA with the aim of (i)
reducing the guarantee coverage provided by SFA (and thus increasing the share of risk borne by
the private sector); (ii) further reducing the deposits provided by SFA to banks in association with
its guarantees; (iii) allowing commercial banks to determine the price of credit provided to final
borrowers; and (iv) broadening the use of this instrument to investments other than farm machinery;
and implementing such changes no later than when the share of SFA's long-term portfolio allocated
to guarantees reaches 75 percent. In the medium term, the Government will also introduce limits on
contingent liabilities that the Government can prudently incur toward agriculture.
F.   TRADE AND MARKET REGULATIONS
61.    As outlined in Section IV. B. above, the Government has made considerable progress in past years
in liberalizing the agricultural trade regime. Since then, the Government has been aiming at maintaining the
newly established trade regime and improving trade and market regulations in the following specific areas:
(a) food safety regulation, (b) seed regulations and (c) fertilizer trade.
62.    The Government aims to support the development of sanitary and phytosanitary regulations and
institutions aiming at the establishment of a unified food safety system. The system will more effectively
protect human health, while reducing the current high regulatory burden on private business, and increasing
export opportunities for the food sector. In the seeds sub-sector, the Government will complete reforms
initiated under ASAL I that aimed to improve competitiveness and market entry in the seed industry, thus
increasing the availability of seed varieties to Bulgaria's farmers. Lastly, ASAL 11 will further deepen
changes introduced to the fertilizer trade regime under ASAL 1, reducing import protection and the cost of
fertilizer to Bulgarian producers.
63.    Objectives: The Government aims to maintain, and where possible, improve an incentives
framework that ensures that consumers and producers base their decisions on prices reflecting the true value
of goods and services to society while improving regulations aiming to ensure food safety standards for
consumers compatible with those of the EU.
15



Measures undertaken since ASAL I / Conditions of ASAL II
64.    Food Safety Regulation. With the aim of establishing a unified food control authority in line with
the EU White Paper on Food Safety and increasing the competitiveness of Bulgarian food products on
domestic and international markets, as well as to providing safe food to consumers in Bulgaria, the
Government has convened a Council on Food Safety, pursuant to the provisions of the law on food safety,
which has prepared a draft National Food Safety Program and Action Plan.
65.    Seed Regulations and Fertilizer Trade. With the aim of improving the access of farmers to
performing plant genetic materials and reducing the costs of inputs, in particular of fertilizers: (i) Parliament
has passed a law on seeds and planting materials which ensures that plant genetic material listed under the
EU Common Catalogue are automatically listed in the Bulgarian National Seed Catalogue without any
further seed testing requirements (other than for phytosanitary reasons), and (ii) the Government has further
reduced the fertilizer import tariff to 25 percent in January 2000, down from 35 percent in 1999.
66.    Maintaining a Liberalized Trade Regime. With the aim of maintaining the liberal incentives regime
established under ASAL I, the Government has refrained from introducing temporary import duty
exemptions on grains. Import duties are established on an annual basis and maintained for at least one year
once established.
67.    Medium term plans and actions. The Government intends to finalize and implement the National
Food Safety Program and Action Plan. To the extent that it maintains trade protection on agriculture inputs,
in particular fertilizers, it will do so at low and uniform levels. In the medium term it will reduce protection
even further. The Government will continue to maintain a liberal incentive regime and will continue to
refrain from introducing temporary import duty exemptions on grains.
G.   FORESTRY SECTOR
68.    About one third of Bulgaria's land (or.roughly 3.3 million hectares) is forested, which generates
timber industry benefits, but also environmental and recreational / tourism benefits that are even more
significant. Many forests in Bulgaria are located on steeply sloping land in upper watershed areas. These
forests directly protect 3.4 billion m3 water in more than 2,000 reservoirs that are used for irrigation,
hydroelectric power and municipal water. The current low levels of water in reservoirs, due to recent
droughts, indicate that protecting and maintaining the existing forest cover in watershed areas is critical for
the economy. A new potential function of the forestry sector is linked to the trade with carbon rights in line
with the Kyoto Protocol. Carbon sequestration through afforestation undertaken by foreign investors could
create revenue for public and private forest owners worth many millions of dollars a year.
69.    The forestry sector is facing a triple challenge: the transition to a modern market economy, the
restitution of forests to former forest owners, and preparation for accession to the EU. The Government has
initiated and significantly moved ahead with restitution of forest land. According to MAF, 95 percent of
eligible private forest owners have been restituted their forest land and have received a full set of documents
(titles, copy of forest management plan of the region, map). The restituted forest land accounts for about 18
percent of the total forest area.
70.    Following completion of the forest land restitution process, about half of the forest land will be
managed by new forest owners lacking knowledge, skills and incentives to manage their new properties
sustainably. The emerging small-scale structure of forest ownership structures compounds the difficulties
of efficient and sustainable forest management. The on-going dialogue with Government have focused on
establishing an institutional and regulatory framework that allows new forest owners as well as the
Government to address the challenges ahead and ensure sustainable forest management. Institutional
16



reforms and legal work have been initiated and restitution of forest land to private owners is already at an
advanced stage. However, major additional effort is needed to consolidate and further improve the legal,
policy and institutional framework for managing the transition process towards market principles also, while
mitigating negative structural effects of forest restitution and gradually improving access to environmentally
sensitive markets mainly in EU countries.
71.    Obiective: The Government aims at establishing a competitive export and domestic trade regime
for the forestry sector while ensuring sustainable production through (i) the development of forest
certification and inspection procedures and (ii) issuance of regulations aiming to support the management of
forests in private ownership. GOB also aims to complete the process of restituting forest land to private
owners.
72.    Measures undertaken since ASAL I / Conditions of ASAL II. The Government, through MAF, has
initiated the establishment of an independent national working group, open to all stakeholders. The group
will prepare an action plan to develop national standards for forest and "chain of custody" certification,
consistent with the relevant Pan-European Ministerial resolutions and recommendations. This will allow
accredited by the major forest certification schemes (i.e. FSC, PEFC). In addition, MAF has issued new
procurement procedures to the effect that forest works in the state forests are now contracted to private
companies on the basis of competitive and transparent tenders. MAF has also: (i) modified existing
legislation to allow legal status to groups or associations of private forest owners; and (ii) prepared
legislation allowing preferential assistance to groups of forest owners committing themselves to joint
management of restituted forests.
73.    Medium-term  plans and actions.  The Government intends to establish an effective forest
information management system able to link forest management planning and forest production, and to
monitor the "chain of custody" for timber and other forest products. The Government aims to apply and
enforce national forest standards on a broad basis and to further develop forest certification systems that
meet international requirements. It also plans to consistently apply and further develop procurement
procedures for forest operations, mentioned above, in order to improve the capture of resource rents, and to
avoid overexploitation of aged forests and secure necessary protection for immature stands. In the medium
term, MAF will extend and further improve technical assistance to new forest owners, through restructuring
of the forest service and allocation of specialized staff. Also, the Government intends to introduce specific
measures and incentives to avoid further fragmentation of small-sized forest holdings and improve their
economic viability. Lastly, the Government plans to explore the possibility of trading carbon emission rights
linked with domestic afforestation, in line with the Kyoto Protocol.
V.  THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.   RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES FOR THE LOAN
74.    With the support of the proposed ASAL II, the Government intends to deepen and broaden the
agriculture reform agenda established under ASAL 1. ASAL 11 will continue supporting a strategy of broad-
based rural growth emphasizing agriculture competitiveness and market development. ASAL I emphasized
liberalization, improvement in the incentives regime, and privatization, with a secondary emphasis on
regulatory and institutional reform. The proposed ASAL II has a greater emphasis on establishing the legal
and institutional requirements for market development, while supporting EU accession. Examples of the
latter include measures to accelerate development of a warehouse receipts system and to establish a viable
legal framework for credit cooperatives, as well as measures to address second-generation issues associated
with the development of agriculture land markets, providing a framework in which public investments in
land market development can meaningfully take place. A similar approach is envisaged by the Government
17



with regard to the development of the irrigation sub-sector by supporting water user associations, paving the
way for future irrigation investments. In addition, the Government, through ASAL 1I will strive to integrate
the agriculture sector more closely into the global economy, in particular the EU. The adoption of food
safety standards and systems compatible with EU norms, and the adoption of modern commodity grades
will support economic and market integration. In addition, improvements in rural financial services will
contribute to a more efficient use of EU SAPARD grants, by providing entrepreneurs with resources that
allow EU SAPARD funds to be leveraged. An important underlying theme of ASAL 11 is the maintenance
and continuation of the incentives regime established under ASAL 1.
75.   Objectives: ASAL II seeks to support broad-based rural growth thus contributing to rural
development and rural poverty reduction by improving the competitiveness of the agriculture sector by
laying a broad institutional and regulatory basis for market development and maintaining the significant
progress made on the incentive regime over the past recent years. The reforms supported under ASAL 11
will provide a framework conducive to market-driven structural changes, a necessary condition for sector
growth. ASAL 11 also aims at supporting Bulgaria in the EU accession process.
B.   THE COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) AND ASAL II
76.   The operation is consistent with the Bank Group CAS discussed by the Executive Directors on
April 9, 1998. As recognized in the CAS, a strong Government effort in agriculture with Bank Group
support is critical, given the sector's role in the economy and, until recently, the dearth of alternative
international partners for the Government in the sector. The Bank's basic strategy, as enunciated in the
CAS, has been to (1) carry out in-depth sector work, disseminating this to generate grass-roots support for a
reform program; (2) support the broad sectoral reform program through adjustment lending; and (3) prepare
investment projects in priority areas in which the Bank has a comparative advantage.
77.   During the CAS period, with support under the ASAL 1, Bulgaria has successfully carried out its
basic market opening reforms in the agricultural sector, making significant strides in price and trade
liberalization, land reform and enterprise privatization. Analytical work carried out in preparation of ASAL
I provides the foundation for the proposed ASAL 11. This has been augmented more recently by the
agriculture chapter of the Country Economic Memorandum, and more targeted work supported under a
Japanese grant to prepare this operation. The proposed ASAL II, a single tranche operation, constitutes the
second phase, maintaining continuity but also supporting a deepening and broadening of the agriculture
reform process to address second generation issues such as the efficient functioning of rural land and
finance markets and the establishment of market supporting institutions. In view of the institutional nature
of many of these measures, this is a medium term agenda which the Bank intends to continue to support
under the next CAS (now under preparation) and through future policy based lending. Thirdly, the Bank is
supporting the agricultural sector through investment projects, in the first instance through the proposed
Cadastre and Property Registration Project, which will improve the functioning of land markets. Additional
project proposals, such as a rural investment loan (which may include irrigation and forestry components)
and a rural finance loan are being discussed with the Government in the context of the new CAS. The
Government's Agriculture Sector Adjustment Program also supports other general CAS objectives,
including private sector development and strengthening and rationalizing the role of the state.
C.   LOAN AMOUNT AND TRANCHING
78.   All conditions for Board presentation have been fulfilled. The proposed ASAL 11 would be a one-
tranche operation. Upon Loan Effectiveness, the Bank would withdraw from the Loan Account a fee
amounting to EUR 588,000 while the remaining funds amounting to EUR 55.2 million would be released to
the Borrower. The loan would be payable in twenty years, including five years grace, at the Bank's
standard interest rate for LIBOR-based single currency loans in EUROs.
18



D.   LOAN CONDITIONS
79.    This section enumerates actions which the Government has taken to meet conditions in the ASAL
11 Policy Matrix, all of which have now been fulfilled.
A.     Further promoted the development of an agricultural land market by substantially
completing agriculture land restitution and titling, and strengthening security of private land
ownership. To this end, the following measures have been implemented:
(i)    Restitution of at least 95 percent of agriculture land area eligible for restitution,
together with a land title (consisting of evidence of a land commission decision and a parcel
sketch map);
(ii)    Passage of a Law on Cadastre and Property Registration, satisfactory to the Bank, and
establishment of a Cadastre Agency;
(iii)    Preparation and implementation of a land information dissemination program, involving the
establishment of a countrywide land listing service which is freely accessible over the Internet.
B.     Further supported the development of private grain markets, while protecting domestic
food security, by undertaking the following measures:
(i)    Adopted regulations that:
(a) Establish that SR grain inventories are maintained exclusively for emergency purposes;
(b) Allow release of SR grain stocks, other than for rotation purposes (with the aim of maintaining
grain quality in storage), only in the event of an emergency situation officially declared by the
Government, or in the event that domestic grain prices exceed CIF import prices by at least 15
percent for an uninterrupted period of one month; and
(c) Stipulate that for the purpose of rotating SR stocks and with the aim of making such grain
rotations more predictable and transparent, the SGR shall:
(1)  publicly pre-announce SR sales and purchase on a three-monthly schedule;
(2)  spread sales and purchases evenly through such period, matching the volume of sales
and purchases within such a three-month period to keep net inventories close to constant;
and
(3)  establish robust financial and inventory management systems, including, amongst others,
regular physical and financial audits.
(ii)    With the aim of supporting grain storage and the nascent warehouse receipt
system:
(a)  Adopted the relevant regulation pertaining to the operations of indemnity funds for
warehouse receipts; and
19



(b)  Adopted a regulation requiring full and public on-site disclosure of the conditions and
limits of Licensed Public Warehouses and Licensed Grain Stores associated with the
current two-tier licensing system for warehouse operations.
C.     Further privatized agricultural enterprises through the following steps:
(i)  Privatization or initiation of liquidation (with appointment of a liquidation) for at least 75
percent of other long term assets within MAF's privatization program;
(ii) Privatization or initiation of liquidation (with appointment of a liquidator) for at least 95
percent of all grain milling enterprises in the MAF privatization program;
(iii) Privatization or initiation of liquidation (with appointment of a liquidator) of at least 90
percent of Sortovi Semena (seed) enterprises in the MAF privatization program;
(iv) Privatization or initiation of liquidation (with appointment of a liquidator) for all Zarneni Hrani
assets in the MAF privatization program; and
(v)  Privatization or initiation of liquidation (with appointment of a liquidator) for at least 95
percent of long term assets in MOE's food industry portfolio.
D.     Promoted the establishment of a regulatory and institutional framework in support of
and conducive to public and private investments in the irrigation sub-sector through the following
steps:
(i)    Preparation of an Irrigation Sector Development Strategy, satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii)   Adoption of a Law on Water Users Associations;
(iii)    Approval of statutes for a new Water Management Agency which will be responsible for
implementing public irrigation policies, supporting the development of future WUAs and
supervising ten independent regional water management companies. As a result the former
Irrigation Systems Company in its present form has ceased to exist.
20



E.     Further supported the development of a legal and institutional framework conducive to
sustainable financial intermediation in rural areas by reducing and changing the role of public
sector presence in rural finance and thus avoiding crowding out of nascent private rural finance
activities. To this end, the following actions have been undertaken:
(i)   Issuance of a Government decision on privatizing all SFA shares in the CCB through the BCC
and transfer of these shares to the BCC;
(ii)    Further reduction in the volume of short-term finance (maturity of less than one year) provided
through the SFA to BGN 27 million during fiscal year 2001;
(iii)   Implementation of steps towards shifting SFA's long-term financing portfolio (maturity over
one year) from bank-intermediated lending of SFA funds to underwriting of SFA guarantees
for commercial bank loans to agriculture, including limiting public funding for SFA long-term
credit in 2001 to BGN 26 million, thereby aiming to increase SFA guarantees up to 75 percent
of the total long-term SFA portfolio in 2001;
(iv)    Improvement in the terms and structure of long-term guarantees underwritten by SFA by:
(a)  limiting the guarantee coverage during FYOI to a maximum of 70 percent on
commercial bank loans to agriculture;
(b)   modifying the practice of placing deposits constituting full loan guarantee coverage in
participating banks, such that in 2001 such deposits have been reduced to no more than
50 percent of the loan amount guaranteed on an individual loan basis; and
(c)   bringing interest rates charged by SFA on such deposits closer to variable market rates
for deposits (to be no less than 45 percent of the BNB base rate).
(v)    Alignment of the cost of funds to commercial banks participating in SFA intermediated, long-
term lending schemes closer to market-determined, variable interest rates (i.e. to be no less
than 65 percent of the BNB base rate).
F.     Continued to maintain and improve the liberalized domestic and international trade
regime establish under ASAL I in agriculture products (primary agricultural and agro-industrial
products, including processed goods and products), while improving regulations aiming to ensure
food safety standards for consumers compatible with those of the EU through the following
measures:
(i)    Establishment of a council on food safety pursuant to the provisions of a recently passed Law
on Food Safety and prepared an initial draft National Food Safety Program and Action Plan;
(ii)    Passage of a law on seeds and planting materials which stipulates that plant genetic material
listed under the EU Common Catalogue be automatically also listed under the Bulgarian
National Seed Catalogue without any further seed testing requirements (other than for
phytosanitary reasons);
(iii)    Further reduction of the fertilizer import tariff to 25 percent in 2000, down from 35 percent in
1999;
(iv)    Avoidance of any temporary import duty exemptions on grains imports.
21



G.     Improved management of forest resources by establishing a competitive export and
domestic trade regime for the forestry sector while ensuring sustainable production through (i)
the development of forest certification and inspection procedures and (ii) issuance of regulations
aiming to support the management of forests in private ownership. The following actions have
been undertaken:
(i)    Establishment of an independent national working group, open to all stakeholders, and
preparation of an action plan to develop national standards for forest certification and chain of
custody certification, consistent with the relevant Pan-European Ministerial resolutions and
recommendations and which can be accredited by the major forest certification schemes (i.e.
FSC, PEFC);
(ii)    Issuance of new procurement procedures to the effect that forest works in state forest are now
contracted to private companies on the basis of competitive and transparent tenders; and
(iii)   by the MAF:
(a)  completion of the legal framework which provides legal status to groups or associations
of private forest owners; and
(b)  preparation of legal provisions for preferred assistance to groups of forest owners
committing themselves to joint management of restituted forests.
E.   DISBURSEMENT AND PROCUREMENT
80.   In accordance with the February 8 1996, Operational Directive on the Simplification of
Disbursement Rules under Structural Adjustment and Sectoral Adjustment Loans, funds disbursed under the
proposed ASAL II will be released against satisfactory implementation of the adjustment program and
progress shown in carrying out the program set forth in the Letter of Sector Policy (Annex 4).
Disbursements will not be linked to any specific purchases. Thus, evidence will not be needed to support
disbursements, nor are procurement arrangements necessary.
F.    REPORTING, ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING
81.   The proposed ASAL 11 of EUR 55.8 million will be made to the Republic of Bulgaria. Upon
notification of Loan Effectiveness and approval of the fulfillment of the tranche conditions, the Bank, at the
request of the Ministry of Finance, will deposit the proceeds of the Loan into a Deposit Account in the
Bulgarian National Bank (BNB). Prior to that, the Bank will withdraw from the Loan Account a front-end
fee amounting to EUR 588,000 (US$ 500,000 equivalent). The Government will maintain accounts and
records, or ensure that such items are maintained, showing that loan disbursements were in accordance with
provisions of the Loan Agreement. Such accounts and records will be maintained in a form acceptable to
the Bank. The MOF will arrange for the audit of the Deposit Account in accordance with auditing standards
acceptable to the Bank and by auditors acceptable to the Bank. The external auditor of BNB will conduct
an annual review and render an opinion on the deposit account opened by the Government in BNB to
exclusively hold the Loan proceeds. The terms of reference of the review have been discussed and agreed
with the BNB. The review will examine and report on the disbursements from the deposit account until
such time that all the Loan proceeds have been fully utilized. Such reviews will be submitted to the Bank as
soon as they are completed, and in any case no later than six months following the calendar year in which
the funds of the Loan were disbursed.
22



G.    BENEFITS AND RISKS
82.    Benefits. The reforms will enhance market development and increase enterprise competitiveness.
This will improve income earning opportunities for producers in rural areas - where the poverty incidence is
80 percent higher than in urban locations - and will contribute to rural employment generation and help
raise rural living standards. Consumers will benefit from improved agricultural product quality and
availability, greater choice, and more efficient marketing channels.
83.    Risks. The primary risk faced by ASAL II is of pressures for reversal, which could occur due to
political backlash that undermines support for the reforms; persistence of an administrative control
mentality among decision makers and ministry staff (e.g. continued reliance on the material balances
approach as a policy tool); and responses to extreme events affecting the agriculture sector, such as the
current drought. Reversal would most likely occur through some combination of these three factors. The
first response to mitigate these risks is the fact that the Government support for the program is strong, as
evidenced by its rapid implementation progress to date in areas such as land policy, and privatization.
Second, the prospect of EU accession provides a strong foundation of popular support for a reform program
such as the one supported through ASAL II and that has an explicit focus on accession.
84.    Third, all conditions in support of reforms initiated under the proposed Loan have been fully met
before presenting the operation to the Board. Fourth, extensive stakeholder consultation on ASAL 11 design
occurred during the preparation period, which resulted in discussion of proposed ASAL II measures with a
broad spectrum of society. The following gatherings took place: a May 99 rural finance workshop,
discussing results of ASAL papers with stakeholders in Sofia and two regional locations (Plovdiv, Vama);
through the CEM presentation, culminating in a high level discussion with the Government in September
1999 and a public presentation and discussion in February 2001 both of which involved discussions on
agricultural policy and EU accession; a presentation and discussion of the agriculture section of the CEM at
a heavily attended Sofia agribusiness conference in May 2000; and discussions in a June 2000 EU
Accession workshop in Sofia, concerning ASAL 11 support for Bulgaria's SAPARD program. A further
presentation of the agriculture chapter of the CEM was carried out in March 2001.
85.    Notwithstanding the above considerations, some parts of the program will remain more vulnerable
than the others. A few flash point issues are noted here:
86.    Grain Markets: The grain market in particular is a very sensitive sector, due largely to imprint of
the crisis of 1996/97 on decision-makers. The recent drought has heightened fears of shortages, which
commands attention in an election year atmosphere. Any real or imagined shortages could create pressure
for re-imposition of trade controls or for producer subsidies, and any problems with the marketing chain
may tempt the Government to resort to direct intervention, for example via the SR (this in fact has already
happened), re-imposition of trade controls, or an increase in poorly targeted directed credit. The Bank aims
to address the longer term problem of grain availability through its dialogue on irrigation, seeds and
fertilizer policies, and on warehouse receipts and grading. Meanwhile, the Bank will remain engaged with
the Government in discussion of measures to further reduce the impact of SR grain operations.
87.    Irrigation: Another part of the program that remains vulnerable is the transfer of operation and
maintenance responsibility for irrigation assets to users. This runs contrary to vested interests, and
continued transfer on a larger scale may be opposed on spurious technical grounds. The preparation work
for an irrigation component of a possible Rural Investment Project will allow the Bank to continue to work
with the Government to ensure that technical problems are resolved and bureaucratic obstacles overcome.
23



H.    IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING OF DEVELOPMENT IMPACT
88.    The Government will ensure monitoring of all components supported under ASAL 11. The
information associated with this monitoring will be collected by the Directorate for European Integration
and Relations with International Financial Intermediaries (IFIs) in the Council of Ministers. With regard to
the grain operations of the SR and the activities of the SFA, quantitative information will be provided on a
regular basis. On the part of the SR, this will include the grain rotation schedule (including the timing and
quantities of anticipated sales and purchases to be pre-announced for a twelve month period by December
15 of each year) and grain inventory levels of the SR, on a quarterly basis. With regard to the SFA, this will
include, also on a quarterly basis, total short and long term lending portfolio (including guarantees),
portfolio performance indicators, and budget requests made by SFA and allocations received from the MOF.
It was also agreed that the BNB will collect and make available to the Bank, twice a year, information on
private financial flows to agriculture, in particular on the total outstanding loans in the aggregate of all
banks under regulation to the agricultural sector by maturity, and their performing or non-performing status.
These reporting requirements will ensure that the Bank is able to monitor developments in some areas
which are of special concern. This and other activities associated with preparation of an agriculture
component under future policy based lending will allow close monitoring of continuing progress in reforms,
and impact on the ground. In addition, implementation of a proposed Cadastre and Land Registration
Project will allow monitoring of land market development.
X.     POVERTY IMPLICATIONS
89.    The reform program under ASAL aims to improve conditions for more active agricultural markets
and broad-based growth. These measures, implemented under ASAL I and the proposed ASAL II, although
not specifically poverty targeted, provide the basis for increased access to markets for a broad base of the
rural population, who depend heavily on agricultural income.
90.    Land Market Development, Titling and Restitution. The recent land reform, based on restitution of
land owned prior to 1944, resulted in a fairly widespread distribution of agriculture land. Farm sizes are
correspondingly small, with an average private farm size of about 4.9 ha. During the 1990s, the farm sector
served as a shock absorber for the rest of the economy, rather than a source of dynamic growth. Although
the land restitution program restored land assets to a large share of rural society, providing a potential base
for income generation and accumulation of wealth, many households have found that commercial farming is
not a viable activity and have leased out their land.
91.    Household consumption could be improved even further by more efficient use of existing land
assets-for example by participation in more active agricultural output and input markets.  The
Government's reforms supported by ASAL I and II should, over time, improve the prospects of
smallholding households, given the improved market access and reduced transactions costs that are
expected to come with policy reform and development of market institutions.
92.    A recent survey concluded that changes in landholding and tenure have had little impact on
minorities, as ethnic and religious minorities have neither been helped nor hindered by the process.
Generally they did not own any land before 1944 and thus the majority did not receive land and were not
materially affected. Those interviewed included Turks, Pomaks (Bulgarians of Moslem faith) and Roma.
Another recent study showed that gender is not currently a major issue in land law: women are given the
same status as men in the laws regulating private property and inheritance, as well as in all other laws in the
country. Family property is most commonly registered in the name of both spouses. The priority of the
Family Code is equity between spouses and within the family.
24



93.    Cereals Marketing and Food Security. Since most small farmers do not currently use off-farm
storage most will in the short term have little direct access to the warehouse receipt system. However, this
system will improve storage efficiency for the marketing system as a whole and, over time, is likely to
provide an increasing number of farmers with improved storage services. Increased efficiency will be
reflected in lower seasonal storage costs, and lower associated price increases over the season. Some of
these efficiency gains in the storage system will be passed to farmers, including small farmers, and indeed
anyone who sells into the market.
94.    The main social issue surrounding changes in SR's grain operations is the impact of improved
wheat stock rotation on market prices, and thereby on producers (farms that are net sellers) and consumers.
Improved stock rotation is intended to reduce the market impact of SR operations. On the producer side, the
reduction of concentrated state purchases during the harvest will put downward pressure on harvest period
prices, but because the SR's seasonal storage activities will be reduced, private operators will have more
incentive to store seasonally, which will put compensating upward pressure on harvest prices. The net effect
on producers is therefore likely to be small. On the consumer side, as the market impact of SR transactions
is reduced, seasonal wheat prices will increase by about 15 percent (in real terms) above recent January-
May levels, to reflect normal private sector storage costs, as seasonal carryover increases in the private
sector. The short-term impact of this price increase on consuming household will be small because the
average budget share for wheat is only about 6 percent. The income effect of a 15 percent price increase is
therefore less than I percent (= 0.6 x 0.15). Even if wheat budget shares for poor consumers are twice as
large, the income effect will still be very small. Over the long-term the income effect will be even less, as
consumers substitute toward cheaper calorie sources. Bulgaria's Guaranteed Minimum Income program,
which provides support to poor households through direct income transfers, will in any case provide some
cushion against detrimental effects on consumers.
95.    Privatization. Both ASAL I and ASAL II have supported privatization of agro-industries with the
aim of increasing efficiency through market discipline. The obvious social consequence of this reform is
that there is likely to be labor shedding as new owners move to maximize financial returns. The effect of
the privatization process on employees of enterprises moving through this process is mixed, with some
positive and some negative effects. However, the Government has in place a number of unemployment
benefit programs to mitigate the impact.
96.    Prior to the ASAL program, there were many delays in the agro-industrial privatization process.
These delays led to the decapitalization of many enterprises which could not then attract new investment
and which struggled for years until they became completely unattractive to potential investors. To the
extent that the ASAL program played a positive role in clarifying the timeframe for the privatization
program, and in accelerating its implementation, this ended the uncertainty surrounding these enterprises,
thereby significantly reducing the time during which they were considered off-limits for investors.
97.   In addition, the Government has taken considerable care to dampen the negative effect on
employees of enterprises going through privatization.  Most privatization contracts have contained
covenants which require maintenance of employment levels for a period of time, and these levels are
monitored by the MAF and MOE. For example, 319 privatized companies have signed contracts with such
covenants since 1977, and only 15 have been unable to maintain full compliance. Eighty-six of these
enterprises  have  actually  increased  the  number  of  staff  above  the  levels  required.
98.    Finally, the Government has established rules for severance payments to those employees that
eventually must be let go. These levels are roughly equivalent with those in Western Europe and are quite
satisfactory, that is, the levels are high enough to provide significant protection, but not so high that work
incentives are reduced. The Government has also financed unemployment benefits through a special fund,
which can be used to assist those who become unemployed as a result of privatization.
25



99.    Rural Finance. A curtailing of public funds for agriculture finance provided through the SFA will
reduce short- and long-term credit provided by the state to this sector. In past years, however, the bulk of
short-term credit has been provided by private sources, in particular input suppliers, and private provision of
longer termn finance is increasing, albeit from a very low base. Moreover, since only around four thousand
clients have received long-term funding from the SFA, only the best credit risks have been served in the past
by the program (most of these are primary agriculture customers of commercial banks). As such, limiting
public funding to finance private agriculture investments is likely to have little, if any, impact on the poorer
segments of the farming community.
100.  Irrigation. Many of the irrigation water users are small farmers and as such have been particularly
vulnerable to the degradation of the irrigation systems over the past decade. As such, they are likely to be
the most important beneficiaries of the institutional changes undertaken in the irrigation sub-sector. As the
WUAs are mostly comprised of small and relatively poor farmers, reflecting the current farming structure in
the country, the measures taken under ASAL II will be mostly be to their benefit. An estimated 100,000
farm families could become members of WUAs.
J.     ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
101.   The proposed ASAL II is not expected to have any significant negative impact on the environment.
To ensure that environmental concerns are taken into account in the privatization program, the Government
has established the Environment and Privatization Support Program which, with support from the Bank
(through the Environment and Privatization Support Adjustment Loan 2 ), provides an overall framework for
dealing with past and future environmental liabilities. Environmental Impact Assessments are required as
part of privatization procedures for large state-owned companies, some of which may be required to develop
a Remediation Plan and/or Compliance Plan. Privatization is bound to have a positive impact on compliance
with environmental regulations. The impact of land policy changes on the environment is likely to be
positive, given that this will restore and secure private property rights in land, improving incentives to
prevent its degradation. While any improvement in production incentives is expected to increase intensity of
production, thereby increasing use of pesticides and fertilizers somewhat, input use is currently at very low
levels and will not rise dramatically over the short term. The exact impact depends on supply responses to
reform, relative price changes and input substitution patterns, but any effects on the environment are likely
to be small.
102.   Legal, institutional and policy uncertainties early in the economic transition and the forest land
restitution process have led to negative environmental impacts such as illegal cutting of timber, especially in
the northeastern lowlands, and increased forest fires. However, the Government has since made significant
progress to address the environmental risks associated with the transition of the forestry sector and with
forest restitution. The basic legal framework for sustainable forest management is in place or is being
finalized. The draft amendment to the Forest Law provides for specific measures in support of group
management in forests with highly fragmented ownership. Further, the qualified and committed staff of the
National Forestry Board have made considerable progress in establishing and enforcing environmental
safeguards.
103.   The proposed loan has been examined by ECSSD and placed in the Environmental Category C.
2 See World Bank Report No. P-7322-BUL, January 24, 2000, in particular paras. 2.10 - 2.18 and 3.06 - 3.12.
26



VI. BANK OPERATIONS
104.  Total Bank lending to Bulgaria amounts to US$ 1463.1 million for 25 operations. These include
nine adjustment operations (US$ 850.8 million), 15 investment loans (US$ 602.4 million), and a Bank-
managed Global Environmental Fund (GEF) grant for US$ 9.9 million. Of these 25 operations, 11 have
been completed, two have been cancelled, and 12 are under implementation, including one restructured
project. The operations currently under implementation are designed to increase overall efficiency of the
social system, upgrade education and health services, support community-based development and
environmental remediation, and modernize the energy, water supply, and railway sectors.
105.  The performance of the Bulgaria portfolio has substantially improved in recent years. During
FY94-96, about one half of the projects under implementation were rated unsatisfactory for either
Development Objectives (DO) or Implementation Progress (IP). The disbursement ratio was also low-in
the 5-7 percent range compared to an ECA average of about 18 percent. As of June 30 1998, the number of
unsatisfactory projects had dropped to 38 percent of the total, and the disbursement ratio had increased to
about 23 percent. Bulgaria's portfolio has continued to establish a good track record since then. As of June
30 2000, all problem projects were upgraded to satisfactory and the disbursement ratio was 39 percent,
exceeding the ECA average of about 19 percent and the Bank-wide average of about 20 percent. These
results are well above the milestones agreed as part of the FY98 CAS.
106.  The turnaround is the result of a number of initiatives: the integration of portfolio issues into all
aspects of the country dialogue; proactive Bulgaria Country Office-based supervision; regular portfolio
performance reviews carried out jointly by the Government and the Bank, accompanied by decisive action
to restructure or cancel non-performing loans; and the establishment of a unit in Bulgaria at the level of the
Council of Ministers for the coordination of Bank-supported activities. A best practice tool for the joint
portfolio reviews (JPRs) is a detailed and focused portfolio improvement program containing generic as
well as project-specific issues that are discussed and agreed during the JPRs.  The Bank and the
Government intend to maintain the increased level of attention to portfolio management through their
overall dialogue, regular project supervision, and the JPR process. As part of the JPR process, the
Government and the Bank have agreed to focus on the following priority areas to further strengthen
portfolio performance: project management capacity; financial management; procurement; and the need to
improve the linkage between public investment planning, Government guaranteed external borrowings, and
budget allocations.
VII. COLLABORATION WITH IMF, EU, JAPAN AND US
107.  The preparation of reforms under ASAL II, and their implementation, was carried out with the
cooperation and support of other donors. The preparation of the loan was supported by a grant from the
Government of Japan. Design of and major developments in the proposed ASAL II were coordinated with
the IMF. Several key agricultural policy actions were endorsed both by the Bank and the IMF including
privatization of state owned enterprises, privatization of state shares in the Central Cooperative Bank, and
transparency in the grain operations of the State Reserve. The Government of the United States took the
lead in supporting implementation of the warehouse receipts system through USAID and ACDI/VOCA, and
this support continues. The EU was also regularly consulted on the proposed ASAL II during preparation.
27



VIII. RECOMMENDATION
108.   1 am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, and I
recommend that the Executive Directors approve the Loan.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Sven Sandstrom
Washington D.C.
May 24, 2001
28



ANNEX 1
Bulgaria -- Selected Key Economic Indicators - 1997-2000
Actual             Estimate
Indicator                     1997       1998     1999      2000
Gross Domestic Product
GDP (US$ million)                          10146      12258    12403    12055
Real GDP growth (%)                          -7.0        3.5      2.4       5.0
Investment (% of GDP)                        11.4       14.7     19.0      16.1
Public                                     3.1        4.0      4.7       3.2
Private                                    8.3       10.8     14.3      12.9
Consumption (% of GDP)                       83.1       86.3     88.7      89.6
Public Sector Balances 1/
Expenditures (% of GDP)                     34.1       36.0     39.1      39.9
Revenues (% of GDP)                         36.2       38.7     40.3      40.0
Deficit (-) (% of GDP)                       2.1        2.7       1.2      0.2
Extemal Financing (% of GDP)                 0.3       -0.7       0.2      1.8
Balance of Payments
Financing Requirements (US$ million)          1140       1367     1724      1798
o/w Current Account Deficit 2/             -1438       -388      265       151
o/w Debt Service (scheduled)                 932       1296      931      1100
o/w Increase in Foreign Exchange Reserves   1646       460       527       547
Financing Sources (US$ million)               1140       1367     1724      1798
o/w Unrequited Current Official Transfers    129         71       80        74
o/w Donor Financing 3/                       702       1003      994       745
o/w FDI and Other Private Flows              639        296      602       808
o/w Arrears Clearance and Debt Relief
o/w Others, inc. Errors & Omissions         -331         -2       47       171
Financing Gap (US$ million)
Extemal debt
Total External Debt (in % of GDP)           97.2       81.8     79.7      83.4
Debt Service (in % of total exports)        12.9      20.6      15.4      15.1
1/ General Government Budget, GFS presentation. Incl. SFRD.
2/ Excluding interest payments and official transfers.
3/ Including Use of Fund credit, other budgetary/balance support.
Source: Official data, IMF staff and Bank staff preliminary estimates.
29



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Bulgaria - Key Exposure Indicators
Actual                   Estimate
Indicator         1995   1996   1997   1998    1999        2000
Total debt outstanding and  10305   10058   9859   10024    9891    10055
disbursed (TDO) (US$m)a
Net disbursements (US$m)a    -334    -384    267    232       593       328
Total debt service (TDS)     1144    1248    932    1296      931      1100
(US$m)a
Debt and debt service indicators
(%)
TDO/XGSb                  149.6   148.2  136.5   159.4   163.2    137.6
TDO/GDP                    78.6   102.3   97.2    81.8    79.7        83.4
TDS/XGS                     16.6    18.4   12.9   20.6      15.4      15.1
Concessional/TDO             1.8     1.8    1.6     1.6      1.8       1.5
IBRD exposure indicators (%)
IBRD DS/public DS           2.7      3.6    5.4     5.4      7.6       8.9
Preferred creditor DS/     34.2    29.9   43.2    47.0    34.8        39.5
public DS (%)C
IBRD DS/XGS                 0.4      0.6    0.6     0.9      1.1       1.1
IBRD TDO (US$m)d            444     453    501      697      821      884
Of which present value of
guarantees (US$m)
Share of IBRD portfolio (%)    0.4   0.4    0.4     0.6      0.7       0.7
IDA TDO (US$m)d               0       0       0       0        0        0
IFC (US$m)
Loans
Equity and quasi-equity /c
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (US$m)
a. Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed,
use of IMF credits and net short-term capital.
b. "XGS" denotes exports of goods and services, including workers' remittances.
c. Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development
banks, the IMF, and the Bank for International Settlements.
d. Includes present value of guarantees.
30



ANNEX 2
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
As Of Date 04/27/2001
Closed Projects 14
a/
Total Disbursed (Active)                                       175.9
of which has been repaid                                    5 1
Total Disbursed (Closed)                                       891.6
of which has been repaid                                  105.4
Total Disbursed (Active + Closed)                             1,067.5
of which has been repaid                                  110.5
Total Undisbursed (Active)                                      165.1
Total Undisbursed (Closed)                                       0.0
Total Undisbursed (Active + Closed)                             165.1
Active Projects                                                                                                                                            Difference Between
Last PSR                                                                      Expected and Actual
Supervision Ratin 
Project ID   Project Name                                        Decve            1111011    Fiscal Year             IBRD       Cancel.        Undisb.      Orig.     Frm Rev'd
P008319    Water Companies Restructuring and Modernization            S                S              1994            98.0         41.0           16.3      60.6           20.2
P008315    Railway Rehabilitation                                     S                S              1996            95.0          0.0           10.9       15.6            0.0
P008318    Health Sector Restructuring                               HS               HS              1996            26.0          0.0            4.3        7.6            0.0
P008323    Social Insurance Administration                           HS                HS             1997            24.3          0.0            5.3        7.3            0.0
P033965    Environment Remediation Pilot                              S                S              1998            16.0          0.0            5.2        5.2           -0.7
P055156    Regional Initiative Fund                                  HS                S             1999              5.0          0.0            0.1       0,5             0.0
P057927    Environment & Privatization Support Loan                   S                S             2000             50.0          0.0           32.4        1.6            0.0
P070086    Trade & Transport Facilitation in South East Europe        S                S             2000              7.4          0.0            6.4      -0.4             0.0
P055157    Health Sector Reform                                       S                S             2000             63.3          0.0           63.4      -1.0             0.0
P055158    Education Modernization (APL 1)                            S                S             2001             14.4          0.0           12.9       0.0             0.0
P064536    Child Welfare Reform                                       S                S             2001              8.0          0.0            7.9       0.0             0.0
TOTAL                                                                                                    407.4         41.0          165.1      96.3            19.5
a/Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
h/The Rating covers the period of the last six months (S=satisfactory, HS=highly satisfactory).
' Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
31



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Bulgaria
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of April 30, 2001
IFC Data Warehouse                                                               (Amounts in US Dollar Millions)
-------------------IFC Held ------------------- ----------------IFC Disbursed ----------------
FY Approval         Company            Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1999                BAC Bank              0.00    0.00     5.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     5.00     0.00
2001                Bulbank               0.00    17.47    0.00     0.00    0.00    17.47     0.00     0.00
1999                Celhart              13.90    1.50     0.00     0.00    13.90    1.50     0.00     0.00
1998                Devnya Cement        26.65    0.00     0.00     0.00    26.65    0.00     0.00     0.00
2001                Doverie               2.75    0.00     1.61     0.00    0.92     0.00     0.46     0.00
1994                Euromerchant FND      0.00    5.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     5.00    0.00      0.00
2000                Florina               3.77     0.00    0.00     0.00    2.47     0.00     0.00     0.00
1996                Interlease Inc.       2.64    0.30     0.00     0.00    1.14     0.30    0.00      0.00
2000/01             Kronospan Group      17.50    0.00     0.00    10.77    17.50    0.00     0.00    10.77
1997                Sofia Hilton         10.80    0.00     2.00    9.50    10.80     0.00    2.00      9.50
Total Portfolio:    78.01    24.27    8.61    20.27    73.37    24.26    7.46    20.27
|  Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Project Name       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1999                BPBank               10.00    12.40    0.00    0.00
2001                EPIQ/ELEX             7.98    0.00     0.00     0.00
2000                Podem                 3.10    0.00     2.00     0.00
Total Pending:      21.06    12.40    2.00     0.00
32



ANNEX 3
Timetable of Key Processing Events
Time taken to prepare:                          14 months
Prepared by:                                    The Government with the assistance
of IBRD staff and consultants
First IBRD mission:                             April 2000
Appraisal mission                               April 2001
Negotiations:                                   May 2001
Planned date of Effectiveness:                  September 2001
Expected program completion:                    September 2002
33



ANNEX 4
LETTER OF SECTOR POLICY
Bulgaria
Second Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL II)
Letter from the Government of Bulgaria
on its Medium-Term Policy for the Agricultural Sector
Background
The backdrop for Bulgaria's medium-term agriculture policy is the agriculture sector
reform program initiated in the aftermath of the economic collapse of 1996 and early
1997 and subsequently supported and implemented under ASAL 1. As stated in the
Government of Bulgaria's manifesto at that time, "The ultimate goal of our program is to
enter the new millennium as a civilized European country." To that end, the Government
adopted and implemented a wide-ranging reform program in all sectors of the economy,
anchored in a sound macroeconomic policy framework.. With the completion of the
initial phase of the reform program, the Government has embarked on a second phase,
with increasing emphasis on meeting the requirements resulting from Bulgaria's
accession process to the EU, in particular with regard to the development of an
agriculture sector able to compete in the Single Market, as outlined by the EU
Copenhagen Criteria. The Government recognizes that the initial steps taken with support
of ASAL I have laid the foundation for the further progress now being supported under
ASAL 11, and will continue to sustain the actions carried out to date. In this letter, the
Government of Bulgaria describes, for each area of agriculture policy, its objectives,
progress to date and the Government's plans for the future.
Land Policy
The Government's aim in the area of land policy is to strengthen the security of private
land ownership in rural areas and to improve the functioning of land markets.
To that effect agricultural land eligible for restitution has substantially (over 95 percent)
been restituted to former owners or their heirs and documents equivalent to a land title
(consisting of a land commission decision and a parcel sketch map) have been provided
for all land restituted in this process. We have presented to Parliament, and the latter
approved on April 12, 2000, a Law on Cadastre and Property Registration. On the basis
of this Law a new Cadastre Agency has been established and which now operates in the
28 regions of Bulgaria. Also, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) has
prepared and implemented an on-going land information dissemination program, which
involves the establishment of a countrywide land listing service that is freely accessible
over the Internet. This web-based land listing service now covers the entire country, and
is available to anyone with internet access. Public access is provided via computers in
the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry's 28 regional offices.
In the medium term, the Government plans to modernize Bulgaria's land registration and
cadastre system, and register titles issued during the land restitution process through the
Ministry of Justice and the new Cadastre Agency with the support of a Bank loan under
the "Property Registration and Cadastre Project." Also, the Ministry of Agriculture and
34



Forestry will carry out a public information campaign informing the public that a land
commission decision together with a parcel sketch map is equivalent to a notary deed or
title (and that this title equivalent is no longer subject to appeal). We also intend to
facilitate a more active agriculture land market. For this purpose and with regard to the
consolidation of the restituted farm lands, according to the legislation, the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry provides the opportunity for exchange of private agricultural
lands with lands from the State Land Fund. Land exchanges associated with physical and
legal persons growing perennial crops and vineyards will be given priority. Long term
leasing of land from the State Land Fund is one of the elements of the land market.
Cereals Marketing and Food Security Policy
The Government is supporting the development of a private grain market while
maintaining food security. Our aim is to further improve the functioning of a warehouse
receipt and grain trading systems.  Our objectives in the cereals sub-sector are to
encourage the development of a thriving private sector for storing and marketing grains,
which will be the primary source of the country's food security, while preserving a very
limited role for state action in the case of true emergency situations. The Government
recognizes that food security does not imply self-sufficiency, but rather the assurance that
even in crisis situations, the minimum food needs of the country will be provided,
whether through domestic or international markets. The overall strategy for meeting
these objectives has been, and remains, three-pronged. First, the former parastatal grain
marketing agency, Zarneni Hrani, has been abolished, and its assets privatized, thereby
eliminating the state's previous dominant role in the sector. Second, the legal framework
is being put in place to encourage private sector development in marketing and storage .
Third, the rules of operation of the State Reserves will ensure that its purchases and sales
will be transparent and will have a minimum effect upon prices in the market.
To support the above we have adopted a decree that (i) stipulates that the level of grain
inventories to be held by the State Reserves (SR) for emergency purposes is determined
by the Council of Ministers, (ii) allows release of SR grain stocks, other than for rotation
purposes with the aim of maintaining grain quality, only in the event of an emergency
situation officially declared by the Government, or in the event that domestic grain prices
exceed CIF import prices by 15 percent for an uninterrupted period of one month. This
decree also stipulates that for the purpose of rotating SR stocks and with the aim of
making such rotations more predictable and transparent, the SR shall: publicly pre-
announce at the latest by December 15 its annual sales and purchase schedule for the
coming year, spread sales and purchases evenly on a quarterly basis, matching the
volume of sales and purchases within such a three-month period to keep net inventories
constant, and establish robust financial and inventory management systems, including,
among other things, regular physical and financial audits. We have also, through the
Ministry of Economy, prepared draft legislation aiming at changing the status of the State
Reserves to a public institution, subject to full public disclosure.
With the aim of strengthening the warehouse receipt system, we have adopted the
relevant decree for setting up the conditions and rules for establishing indemnity funds
and their functioning while the National Grain Service has formally required on the part
35



of warehouses under its authority full and public on-site disclosure of the terms,
conditions and limits of Licensed Public Warehouses and Licensed Grain Stores.
In the medium term, the Government will ensure full compliance of the SR with the
above mentioned decree, in particular with regard to grain stock release associated with
emergency situations but also with regard to sales and purchases of grains for the purpose
of rotating inventories. Grain inventories currently held with the SR (excluding the
Wartime Reserve) are around the level established by the Government under ASAL 1,
and we currently do not expect to increase this level of inventories; subject to review by
the Government of the food security situation and of possible food emergency situations,
we intend to gradually reduce this level in the medium term to reduce the fiscal costs as
well as further limit the market impact of the SR transactions associated with the rotation
of its inventories. The Government will ensure that SR implements and maintains a
robust financial and inventory management system. Also, the Government will require
SR to further privatize grain storage facilities and, to the extent possible, increase the
share of SR inventories stored in private, licensed warehouses. The Government also
intends to pass legislation aiming at changing the status of the State Reserves to a public
institution, subject to full public disclosure. The Government continues to be committed
to abstaining from establishing a market stabilization or intervention agency, with the
exception of an intervention facility required to implement the EU's Common
Agriculture Policy. With the aim of supporting further expansion of exports markets in
grains (but also meat and wine) as well as of domestic grain markets, the Government
will soon review the administrative procedures associated with the value-added tax
(VAT) for the marketing and trade of agriculture and food products to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of these procedures, in particular with regard to VAT
refunds.
As to the medium term development and use of warehouse receipts in Bulgaria, the
Government will (i) support the establishment of an association of licensed warehouse
operators; (ii) phase out storage subsidies to farmers as available storage capacity with
Licensed Public Warehouses expands in the future; and (iii) unify the two-tier licensing
system such that only one single category of warehouses are licensed and eligible to issue
warehouse receipts, while allowing other unlicensed warehouses only to store grain, not,
however, to issue warehouse receipts. To facilitate trade, the Government will also strive
at harmonizing domestic grain grades with EU standards.
Privatization
The Government aims to complete the privatization of agroindustrial enterprises (primary
production, food industry, fertilizer and other farm input related as well as machinery
companies) owned by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and by the Ministry of
Economy (MOE).
To that effect, we have, through the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, privatized or
initiated liquidation (with appointment of a liquidator) of at least 75 percent of all long-
term assets in the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry's privatization portfolio. With
regard to specific branches of enterprises, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has
privatized or initiated liquidation for at least 95 percent of all milling capacity, at least 90
36



percent of assets under Sortovi Semena (seed) enterprises, and all of former Zarneni
Hrani long term assets. MOE has substantially completed privatization of food industry
enterprises under its responsibility by selling 95 percent of long term assets under its
portfolio (including all farm machinery manufacturing enterprises).
In the medium tern and with the privatization of primary agriculture enterprises and
farms as well as input and food processing enterprises substantially completed, the
Government will endeavor to fully complete privatizing all remaining agriculture
(including forestry enterprises) and agribusiness related enterprises remaining under
public ownership.
Irrigation Sector Policy
To increase agriculture production, to facilitate the growing of high-value crops as well
as to mitigate the effects of frequent droughts, the Government is aiming to re-launch the
irrigation sub-sector through the rehabilitation and repair of economically viable parts of
the existing irrigation infrastructure. As a critical initial step in the process of
rehabilitating this physical infrastructure, the Government is aiming to restructure the
institutional framework for the irrigation subsector, and we have established a Water
Management Agency within the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. The Government
also plans to reorganize the existing Irrigation Systems Company into ten independent
Regional Water Management Companies and establish Water User Associations (WUAs)
in line with new legislation.
With the above objectives in mind, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry first prepared
an Irrigation Development Strategy and subsequently a Law on Water Users Associations
which was adopted by Parliament in March 2001. This Law constitutes the institutional
cornerstone for Bulgaria's future irrigation development. Associated with this Law on
Water Users Association, we have approved the statutes of the new Water Management
Agency which will be responsible for implementing the Government's irrigation policies,
supporting the development of future WUAs and supervising the ten Regional Water
Management Companies, following the break-up of the former Irrigation System
Company. As a result, the Irrigation Systems Company in its present form will cease to
exist.
In the medium term, the Government plans to carry out public investments in irrigation
on the basis of economic criteria and expects to write-off irrigation schemes which are no
longer economically viable. The Government will implement the institutional reforms
associated with the new Law on Water Users Associations and the Statutes of the new
Water Management Agency and the reorganization of the former Irrigation Systems
Company. The Government also plans to transfer the usufruct rights of infrastructure to
WUAs at the time of their establishment with optional rights to ownership of such
infrastructure within five years of the establishment of a WUA. The Government will
support WUAs in federating into larger associations. In the long run we anticipate that
larger WUAs will also manage and own the water delivery systems, thus focusing the
responsibilities of the Regional Water Management Companies on the management of
public infrastructure such as dams, flood protection schemes and river system.
37



Rural Finance
The Government aims to support the development of a legal and institutional framework
conducive to sustainable financial internediation in rural areas ensuring efficient
resource allocation and a broad scope of private financial services to agriculture and rural
entrepreneurs. While we anticipate significant amounts of grant funding to be made
available to finance private and public investments in the agriculture sector by the EU
under SAPARD (Special Accession Program for Agriculture and Rural Development)
through Government, we recognize that the large demand for funding of the sector can in
the medium term only be met through significant private financial intermediation. We
also recognize that the Government's ability to substitute in any meaningful way for
private rural financing as well as to take on risk through contingent liabilities
(guarantees) is very much limited by fiscal constraints.
To that effect, the Government has issued a decision to privatize all the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry/State Fund Agriculture (SFA) shares (roughly 33 percent of
total shares) in the Central Cooperative Bank (CCB) through the Bank Consolidation
Company (BCC). To date, SFA shares in CCB have been transferred to and are registered
with BCC. The BCC has established an excellent track record in privatizing state-owned
banks, and we fully expect the minority state share in CCB to be taken up by a suitable
private sector investor with the coming months.
Also, we have continued to reduce the budget allocations to SFA with an allocation for
short term credit during 2001 amounting to Leva 27 million, down from Leva 30 million
in 2000. In fact this short-term credit has fallen by 20 percent in real terms over the last
three years. We have also limited the budget allocation to SFA for long term credit (i.e.
maturities longer than one year) during 2000 to Leva 26 million (down from Leva 35
million in 1999) and have maintained that level also in 2001. During 2001, SFA is aiming
(as demonstrated by SFA's 2001 program submitted to the Government) to shift its long
term portfolio from direct and bank-intermediated lending of SFA funds to underwriting
of guarantees for commercial bank loans to finance agricultural machinery. SFA is
aiming to increase the guarantee portion to 75 percent of the total long-term SFA
portfolio in 2001.
With the aim of improving the structure of credit guarantees recently introduced, (i) SFA
has limited its guarantee coverage in 2001 to a maximum of 70 percent of specific
commercial bank loans to agriculture guaranteed by SFA; (ii) SFA has also modified its
practice of placing deposits constituting the full loan guarantee coverage in participating
banks, such that in 2001 SFA has reduced these deposits to no more than 50 percent of
the loan amount guaranteed on an individual loan basis (i.e. no more than 35 percent of
the loan amount); and (iii) SFA will link the interest charged on such deposits more
closely to market rates (i.e. minimum of 0.45 times the (variable) Bulgarian National
Bank base rate).
SFA has also introduced some changes to its long term  lending program  through
commercial banks by moving the cost of funds for banks participating in SFA bank-
intermediated lending schemes closer to market-determined rates. To that effect, SFA has
38



established the cost of its funds to banks to be no less than 0.65 times the (variable) BNB
base rate; commercial banks have been informed by SFA that, as of October 1, 2001, any
new loan commitments provided by SFA through participating banks will be carried out
on that basis; and existing framework agreements between SFA and commercial banks
will be amended to reflect these revised conditions. Similarly, lending provided directly
from SFA to final borrowers will be adjusted, starting October 1, 2001, to match the
conditions applied to SFA funds intermediated through commercial banks.
In the medium term, and should the Government submit a Law on Savings and Credit
Cooperatives to Parliament for approval, such Law will provide for adequate depositor
protection, sound financial governance and strong regulatory oversight by the banking
authorities. Following adoption by Parliament of new SCC legislation, the Government
plans to register existing credit cooperatives under the new legislation in a timely manner.
In addition, the Government will provide adequate resources to BNB (or the assigned
regulatory body) to ensure adequate supervision of credit cooperatives.
To support the development of mortgage-based lending the Government aims to improve
the protection of both creditor and debtor interests and therefore to support the
implementation of court procedures in the event of foreclosure associated with mortgage
based lending and to amend legislation pertaining to the Civil Code and the Contract and
Obligations Act, were relevant.
The Government, through BCC will aim at a rapid placement of all public shares in CCB.
The Government will continue to progressively reduce budget allocations for all SFA
shiort-term credit programs in years following 2001 aiming to reach a zero allocation by
2004 (year 2003 budget submission). The Government also will regularly review the
terms and conditions of credit guarantees provided by SFA with the aim of (i) reducing
the guarantee coverage provided by SFA (and thus having more risk borne by the private
sector); (ii) further reducing the deposits provided by SFA provided to banks in
association with its guarantees; (iii) allow commercial banks to determine the price of
credit provided to final borrowers; and (iv) to broaden the use of this instrument to
investments other than farm machinery. We expect to implement such changes at the
latest when SFA's long-term portfolio reaches 75 percent of guarantees. In the medium
term, the Government will also introduce limits on contingent liabilities that the
Govemment can prudently incur toward agriculture lending.
In the medium term (starting with the 2002 budget), Government will gradually yet
significantly reduce its budget allocation to SFA's long term lending program. SFA, in
turn, will strive to improve its resource base and cash flow by increasing its efforts at
further improving the loan repayment performance on its existing portfolio, thus allowing
SFA to maintain its lending program. In the medium term, SFA's main mandate will shift
towards administrating SAPARD funds.
Trade Policies and Market Regulations
In the last two years the Government continued to look for ways to improve the access of
Bulgarian agricultural products to international markets. In its new capacity as a
39



negotiating country to the EU, Bulgaria signed an agreement with the EU to apply a
"double zero" approach for certain agricultural products. Under this Agreement both
sides are canceling the use of export subsidies for some goods and imports is allowed
within a quota at duty free regime. In this way Bulgarian producers are facing the
competition of EU producers similar as if they were part of the EU internal market.
Further trade liberalization talks are under way within CEFTA, as well. Significant
concessions are negotiated within the bilateral free trade agreements with Turkey,
Macedonia, Lithuania.
The Government continues to maintain, and where possible, improve an incentive
framework that ensures that consumers and producers base their decisions on prices that
reflect the true value of goods and services to society while improving regulations aiming
to ensure food safety standards for consumers compatible with those of the EU.
With the aim of establishing a unified food control authority in line with the EU White
Paper on Food Safety and to increase the competitiveness of Bulgarian food products on
domestic and international markets as well as to provide safe food to consumers in
Bulgaria, we have convened a Council on Food Safety, pursuant to the provisions on Law
on Food Safety, which has prepared an initial draft National Food Safety Program and
Action Plan. Also, with the aim of improving the access of the farming community to
performing plant varieties and to reduce the costs of inputs, in particular of fertilizers, (i)
Parliament has passed a Law on Seeds and Planting Materials which foresees that plant
varieties listed under the EU Common Catalogue will be automatically also listed under
the Bulgarian National Seed Catalogue without any further seed testing requirements
(other than for phytosanitary reasons) and (ii) Government has further reduced the
fertilizer import tariff to 25 percent in January, 2000, down from 35 percent in 1999. In
addition, and with the aim of maintaining a liberal incentive regime established under
ASAL 1, the Government has refrained from introducing temporary import duty
exemptions on grains. Import duties are established on an annual basis and maintained for
at least one year once established.
In the medium term, the Government envisages to finalize and implement the National
Food Safety Program and Action Plan. The Government will further reduce trade
protection on agriculture inputs, in particular fertilizers, through the free trade agreements
with the EU and CEFTA which come into force in 2002. Lastly, the Government will
continue to maintain a liberal incentive regime and will continue to refrain from
introducing temporary import duty exemptions on grains.
Forestry Sector Policies
The Government aims to establish a competitive export and domestic trade regime for the
forestry sector while ensuring sustainable production through (i) the development of
forest certification and inspection procedures and (ii) issuance of regulations aiming to
support the management of forests in private ownership. The Government is also aiming
to complete the process of restituting forest land into private ownership.
To that effect we have, through the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, initiated and
significantly moved ahead with restitution of forest land. The Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry has also established an independent national working group, open to all
40



stakeholders, and initiated the preparation of an action plan to develop national standards
for forest and chain of custody certification, consistent with the relevant Pan-European
Ministerial resolutions & recommendations which can be accredited by the major forest
certification schemes (i.e. FSC, PEFC). In addition, the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry has issued new procurement procedures so that forest works in state forests are
now contracted to private companies on the basis of competitive and transparent tenders.
Lastly, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (i) has completed the legal framework
which provides legal status to groups or association of private forest owners; and (ii) has
prepared legal provisions for preferred assistance to groups of forest owners committing
themselves to joint management of restituted forests.
In the medium term, the Government aims to establish an effective forest information
management system able to link forest management planning and forest production, and
to monitor the chain of custody for timber and other forest products. The Government
also envisages to apply national standards on a broad basis and to further develop further
forest certification  compliant with  international requirements. In  addition, the
Government will consistently apply and further develop procurement procedures for
forest operations, mentioned above, in order to improve resource rent capturing, avoiding
overexploitation of aged forests and securing necessary silvicultural and protective
measures of young and non-mature stands. Beyond this, the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry will extend and further improve technical assistance to new forest owners,
through organizational adaptations in the forest service and allocation of specialized staff.
Also, the Government plans to introduce specific measures and incentives to strengthen
economic viability and to avoid further fragmentation of small-sized forest holdings.
Lastly, the Government plans to explore the possibility of introducing the trade of carbon
emission rights linked with afforestation measures, in line with the Kyoto Protocol.
us sincerely,
Ventzislav Varbanov
D DtSP{'rime Minist  and                         Minister of Agriculture and
er of Economy                              Forestry
Datehy?/4"  t
41



ANNEX 5
Policy Reforms Program Matrix
~~omponen*  Objective  *                                                                  M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~edium termi
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _2 00(2 0 2-2 0 33
I. Rural Land Market Develo ment
egistration & Cadastre         Strengthen the security   A land commission decision and parcel sketch map       The GOB will modernize its land registration
of private land           (which is legally equivalent to a notary deed, or title)    and cadastre system  and register notary deeds
ownership in rural areas   will be delivered to owners holding at least 95 percent  (titles)  issued  during  the  land  restitution
and improve the           of the agricultural land eligible for restitution.     process.
functioning of land
markets.
Titling and Restitution                                   The GOB will present and Parliament will pass a Law
on Cadastre and Property Registration, satisfactory to
the Bank and will establish a Cadastre Agency.
Information Dissemination on                              The MAF will prepare and implement a land              MAF will carry out a public information
Restitution and Land Markets                               information dissemination program, involving          campaign informing the public that a land
establishment of a countrywide land listing service,  commission decision is equivalent to a notary
freely accessible over the Internet. Computer         deed, or title, and that such a decision is no
terminals will be available to the public in MAF      longer subject to appeal.
offices in 28 regional capitals.
42



Connptmuf                   Z                *   coOn                                                          AMedium term
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .   .__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (2 0 0 1 -2003 )
11. Cereals Marketing and Food Security
State Grain Reserves       Support develop-ment of   Council of Ministers will adopt a regulation that:  The Government continues to be committed to
a private grain market                                                       abstaining  from   establishing   a  market
while maintaining food    (i) establishes that State Reserve SR grain inventories  stabilization or intervention agency, with the
security                 are maintained exclusively for emergency purposes;    exception of an intervention facility required
to implement the EU's Common Agriculture
(ii) allows release of SGR grain stocks, other than for  Policy.
rotation purpose with the aim of maintaining grain
quality, only in the event of an emergency situation  The Government will ensure full compliance
officially declared by The Government, or in the event  on the part of SR with adopted regulation. The
that domestic grain prices exceed CIF prices by at  Government also envisages to require SR to
least 15 percent for an uninterrupted period of one  further privatize grain storage facilities and to
month;                                             increase the share of SR inventories stored in
private, licensed warehouses. The Government
(iii) will require, for the purpose of rotating SGR  intents to pass legislation aiming at changing
stocks and with the aim of making such rotations   the status of the State Reserves to a public
more predictable and transparent, that the SGR: (a)  institution, subject to full public disclosure.
pre-announce the three-monthly SGR sales and
purchase schedule, (b) spreading sales and purchases   The Government to review VAT administration
evenly through such period, and matching the volume   arrangements
of sales and purchases within such period to keep net
inventories close to constant (c) establish robust  The Government to adopt legislation changing
financial management systems, including both      the status of the State Reserves to a public
physical and financial audits.                    institution subject to full public disclosure.
Warehouse Receipts          Improve conditions for     COM to adopt the relevant decree regulating the    Support the establishment of an association of
establishment of a        operation of the Indemnity Funds                   licensed warehouse operators
functioning warehouse
receipts and grain grading  NGS to make it a formal requirement that both    Phase out storage . subsidies to farmers as
system                    Licensed Public Warehouses (LPW) and Licensed      available storage capacity with Public Licensed
Grain Stores (LGS) fully and publicly disclose at the    Warehouses expands.
storage facility the conditions and limits of LPW and
LGS storage license.                               Unify the two-tier licensing system for
warehouses.
Harmonize domestic grain grades with EU
standards.
43



(~~oinponenI  I  Ok/edive    *                                                I                M~~~~A  Aedium t erin
______________________________________ 1(2001-2003)
Ill. Privatization of Agricultural and Food Enterprises
Agro-industrial enterprises  Completion of MAF                                                           Fully complete privatization of all remaining
privatization program    MAF will privatize or initiate liquidation (with   agriculture and agro-industries related
appointment of a liquidator) of at least 75% of long-    enterprises under public ownership
term assets existing in the MAF privatization
program.
MAF will privatize or initiate liquidation (with
appointment of a liquidator) of at least 95% of the
grain milling enterprises.
MAF will privatize or initiate liquidation (with
appointment of a liquidator) of 90% of Sortovi
Semena asset.
MAF will privatize or initiate liquidation (with
appointment of a liquidator) of all Zarneni Hrani
assets.
Completion of Ministry of  MOE will privatize or initiate liquidation (with
Economy (MOE)            appointment of a liquidator) of at least 95% of long-
privatization program    term assets existing in the food industry program.
associated with agro-
industries
44



. .                  -- . . -A-4L .ncoadkI
co --- enp                                      -- -                                                                 fedium term
(2001-2003)
IV. Irrigation Systems Developmeint
rrigation legislation         Estab lishment of a sound                                                      Carry out public investments in irrigation on
legislative basis for      Prepare an Irrigation Sector Development Strategy  the basis of economic criteria and will write off
formation of water users                                                       schemes that are no longer economically
assoc iations and transfer                                                     viable.
and rnanagement of
irrigation assets.         A la'w on Water Users Associations, satisfactory to the
Bank, will be passed by Parliament.
nstitutional reform in the    Restructuring of the       Approve statutes of new Water Management Agency   Implement institutional reforms associated with
rrigation sect or             public Irrigation Systems                                                      the Law on WUAs and the Statutes of the new
Company with a reduced                                                        IA and the reorganization of the ISC. Transfer
and rmore clearly defined                                                      usufruct rights on infrastructure to WUAs with
public sector role,                                                            optional rights to ownership of such
imprc)ve efficiency and                                                        infrastructure. Provide WUAs with the right to
increase the supply of                                                         federate into larger associations and to take
irrigation water at                                                            over larger irrigation infrastructure
reasonable cost.
45



Medium ler
V. Rural Fiunance
Savings and Credit           In efforts to establish a                                                 Should SCC legislation be submitted for approva
Cooperatives (SCCs)          legal framework for                                                       to the COM after Board, it should be satisfactory
SCCs, ensure adequate                                                    to the Bank, providing for adequate depositor
prow visions for depositor                                               protection, sound governance and strong
pro tection, soutd                                                       regulatory oversight by banking authorities.
governance and
sufficient regulatory                                                    Following adoption by Parliament of new SCC
ove rsight by banking                                                    legislation, existing credit cooperatives should
authorities.                                                             be registered under the new legislation in a
timely manner. In addition,
Adequate resources should be provided to BNB
to undertake credit cooperative supervision
Improve legal                                                            Finalize steps to improve the legal framework
frarmework for mnortgage                                                 for mortgage lending, including lending against
agricultural land with the aim to achieve a
reasonable balance between the interests of
debtors and creditors. Envisaged revisions will
pertain to the Contracts and Obligations Act.
SFA and Comimercial Banks    Establishment of an     (i) COM to issue decision on privatization of SFA  The Government, through BCC, will sell all
incentives environment   shares in CCB through BCC.                      public shares in CCB.
favorable to
development of a        (ii) SFA shares in CCB to be transferred to BCC; and
connpetitive, privately
owned banking system
serving the agricultural
sector and rural areas
SFA bank-intermediated                                (i) Short-term credit programs: MAF will submit an    Short term credit programs: the MAF will
ending and gu arantees                               FY0 I budget proposal for all SFA short-term lending   progressively reduce expenditures for all short-
programs of no rnore than BGN 27 million in total.    term credit programs in years following 2001,
reaching zero by no later than 2004 (year 2003
budget submission).
46



*                                -                                   : '; -       e Meder term
-_            _         ,  ,  ..  9  .  .....  ; - .  ~s  .X ,.z.  v., ... . ,,. . -: .....,..  (2001-2003)
Long term programs: SFA
will continue to shift from indirect lending to
guarantees, and will over time shift to more
(ii) SFA long-term program portfolio composition: the  commercial terms on guarantees.
overall composition of SFA long term programs to
shift from bank-intermediated lending of SFA funds
to SFA guarantees of bank loans. The guarantee
portion should increase to 75% of the total long-term
SFA portfolio in 2001, as demonstrated by SFA's
2001 Program. SFA has established an upper limit
on annual budget allocations for long term finance in
the amount of BGN 26 million.
(iii) SFA loan guarantees:
(a) SFA guarantee coverage in 2001 to be limited to a
maximum of 70 per cent of the loan provided by the
commercial bank; and
(b) SFA to modify its practice of placing deposits
constituting  full  loan  guarantee  coverage  in
participating banks such that in 2001, SFA will reduce
such deposits to no more than 50 percent of the loan
amount guaranteed on an individual loan basis; and
(c) the interest charged by SFA on such deposits
should be no less than 0.45 times the BNB base rate;
and
(iv) SFA lending intermediated through commercial
banks: the contractual cost of funds for banks
participating in SFA bank-intermediated lending
schemes shall be no less than 0.65 times the BNB
base rate.
47



VI. Trade and Market Regulations
Food Safety Regulations    Establish Unified Food   COM to convene Council on Food Safety pursuant to   Prepare and implement National Food Safety
Control Authority in line   the provisions on Law on Food Safety which will  Program and Action Plan
with EU White Paper on    establish a Task Force for the preparation of a
Food Safety to increase    National Food Safety Program and Action Plan.
competitiveness of
Bulgarian food products   Prepare draft Action Program.
on domestic and
international markets, and
provide safe food to
consumers in Bulgaria
and for exports.
Seed and Planting Materials   Improve access of     Parliament to pass Law on Seeds and Planting
farming community to     Materials which foresees that plant genetic material
plant genetic material  listed under the EU Common Catalogue is
automatically also listed under the Bulgarian National
Seed Catalogue without any further seed testing
requirements (other than for phytosanitary reasons).
Fertilizer and input imports    Reduce cost of inputs, in   The Government of Bulgaria will reduce the fertilizer   Maintain low, uniform level of protection for
particular fertilizer, to  import tariff to 25 percent by January 1, 2000.  agriculture inputs, in particular fertilizer and
Bulgarian farmers                                                        further seek to reduce protection.
Trade: Import Tariff       Maintain incentive regime  Refrain from introducing temporary import duty  Maintain liberal incentive regime and continue
Exemptions                 established under ASAL I  exemptions on grains.                           to refrain from introducing temporary import
duty exemptions on grains.
48



-A44 IFC#II(Irrn
Conpwonst                    ObJ     c           *   CwMn ,edium term
.______________________  .                     .     . _______________   (2001-2003)
VII. Forestry Sector
Forest Products and           Development of a            MAF will initiate the establishment of an independent  Establish  an  effective  forest  information
Regulations                   competitive export and      national working group, open to all stakeholders, and  management  system   able  to  link  forest
domestic trading regime    the preparation of an action plan to develop national  management planning, forest production and to
for the forestry sector,   standards for forest and chain of custody certification,  monitor chain of custody for timber and other
within an appropriate      consistent with the relevant Pan-European Ministerial  forest products.
forest management          resolutions &  recommendations and which can be
framework.                 accredited by the major forest certification schemes  Apply and enforce national forest standards on
(i.e. FSC, PEFC).                                     a  broad  basis and  further develop  forest
certification   compliant  with  international
MAF will issue new procurement procedures to the  requirements.
effect that forest works in the state forests are now
contracted to private companies on the basis of  Consistently apply and procurement procedures
competitive and transparent tenders.                 for forest operations.
MAF will further (i) adjust the legal framework such  Extend   and   further  improve   technical
that legal status is provided to groups or association of  assistance to new forest owners.
private forest owners; and (ii) will prepare regulations
such that assistance is given on a priority basis to  Explore the possibility of introducing trading of
groups of forest owners committing themselves to  carbon emission rights in line with the Kyoto
_____________________________ __________________________  joint management of restituted forests.        Protocol.
49



ANNEX 6
Agricultural Projects by Other Donors in Bulgaria
PROJECT NUMBER            Durati   Country/Donor        Total        Type/Terms       Project Objectives (Beneficiary Institution)
AND TITLE                 on                            Amount in
"Iss
BUL/AGR/0004 USAID        91-02    USA/USAID            24,000       FTC/GRANT    lTo foster the development of Bulgarian agriculture through providing technical and financial
RESTRUCTURING                       (USAID)                                           Bulgarian farmers, to support the restructuring of the dairy production sector through assisting in the
AGRICULTURE AND                                                                       establishment of a Milk Producer's Association; to help the establishment of both the Private Meat
AGRIBUSINESS (180-                                                                    Processors and Private Flour Millers Associations; to provide technical assistance to the milling and
0024)                                                                                 bakery sub-sector to alleviate problems created by wheat shortage; to start a grain warehouse
program to mobilize substantial credit to the farm sector in the country. (PRIVATE
ENTERPRISES)
BUUAGR/00IO PHARE         92-99    EUPIHIARE (AGR)    13,333         FTC/GRANT        The specific objectives of the Program are:(i) Restoring property rights by accelerating both Land
AGRICULTURE                                                                           Restitution and Land Registration;(ii) Privatization in poultry and pig breeding farms and feed and
PROGCRAMME 1992                                                                       flour mills;(iii) Market development by developing private wholesale and auction networks;(iv)
(BG9206)                                                                              Promoting media coverage in clarification of agricultural strategies;(v) General technical assistance
to support other urgent activities arising during the implementation of the Program. (MINISTRY OF
AGRICULTURE AND FORESTS)
BULJAGR/00I I PHARE       96-99    EUPHARE (AGR)   6,515             FTC/GRANT        The objectives of the Program are: (i) To establish a coherent policy framework for agriculture and
AGRICULTURE                                                                           agro-industries in the context of the European integration; (ii) To initiate measures in the field of
PROGRAMME 1995                                                                        Agriculture for adopting a legal and regulatory framework compatible with the EU; (iii) To support
(BG9S07)                                                                              the institutions in land registration, agricultural extension and establishment of both domestic and
export markets of agricultural products. The main projects involved are: Assistance to Agricultural
Policy Framework, Harmonization of Legal Framework and Institutional Strengthening.
(MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FORESTS)
BUL/AGR10079 FAO          98-99    FAO (AGR)            100          FTC/GRANT        To support the Govemment of Bulgaria in the elaboration of a national Strategy for Agricultural
SUPPORT TO THE                                                                        Development and Food Security in Bulgaria. (MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FORESTS)
NATIONAL STRATEGY
FOR AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT AND
FOOD SECURITY
(TCP/BUL/7821)
BUL/AGR/0080 BMZ          98-01     GFR/BMZ (DEXI)   884             FTC/GRANT        To support the Bulgarian Agriculture and Forestry in the following fields: (i) Technical Assistance
SUPPORT TO THE                                                                        for the Restitution of Forests; (ii) Support to Medium- sized agricultural companies; (iii)
BULGARIAN                                                                             Improvement of the quality of milk; (iv) Creation of Agrarian Fund in Bulgaria. (MINISTRY OF
AGRICULTURE AND                                                                       AGRICULTURE AND FORESTS)
FORESTRY (---)                                                                      I
PROJECT NUMBER            Durati   Country/Donor        Total        Type/Terms       Project Objectives (Beneficiary Institution)
AND TITLE                 on                            Amount in
Us$
50



BUI/AGR/0086 GER          99-01    GFR/GTZ (AGR)        1,094        FTC/GRANT        To support the development of the agriculture, stock-breeding, fruit- and wine-growing in the
GRANT FOR                                                                             mountain region of Lovech. (MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FORESTS)
PROMOTING THE
MOUNTAIN REGION OF
LOVECH AND THE
BULGARIAN WINE-
AND FRUIT-GROWING
(99.0767.6-001.00)
BUL/AGR/0087 BMZ          99-99    GFR/BMZ (GTZ)    79               FTC/GRANT        The project provides farm practice for 20 agrarians and farmers for 6 months in Germany.
SUPPORT FOR FARM                                                                      (MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FORESTS)
PRACTICE (---)                                                                      l
BUL/AGR/0089 NETH         99-00    NET/DUTCH GOV   3                 FTC/GRANT        The main objective of the project is to train private farmers and food processors and for co-
SUPPORT FOR THE                     (NGO)                                             operative and village administrators. (NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS)
APPLICATION OF
NATIONAL ANTI-
ENVIRONMENTAL
PROGRAMME (KAP
99/010)
BUL/AGR/0093 UNDP         99-00    UNDP                 8            FTC/GRANT        The project aims at providing Bulgarian policy-makers in the field of agriculture with timely,
STRENGTHENING OF                    FRA/FRAGOV          110          FTC/GRANT        comprehensive and reliable information to enable them to formulate and monitor the
THE AGRICULTURAL                    (AGR)                                             implementation of an effective national agricultural policy, thus contributing to food security.
PRODUCTION                                                                            (MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FORESTS)
MONI'I'ORING SYST EM
(BUI.99/011) (...)
BUL/AGR/0012              97-06    EBRD                 9,121        IPT/LOAN         The project will result in the construction and upgrading of a set of modern wholesale and assembly
EBRD/GER                            GFRIBMZ (AGR)    2,862           FTC/GRANT        market facilities. These will provide competitive outlets for private sector suppliers and traders of
AGRICULTURAL                                                                          fresh agricultural products. (PRIVATE ENTERPRISES)
WHOLESALE
MARKETS (---) (BUL-
014-0(00-074)
BUL/AGR/0081 NETH         98-00    NET/DUTCH GOV   741               FTC/GRANT        'i'o establish a Commercial Agricultural Mechanization Association in close cooperation with the
AGRICUJLTURAL                       (DEXI)                                            Agro-service in Trustenik, Lovetch District and to set up a regional Credit Association. (PRIVATE
MECHANISATION                                                                         ENTERPRISES)
SECTOR
DEVELOPMENT
(PS097/BG/I/I)
BUIJAGR/0091 SWISS        97-00    SWI/SI)C             245          FTC/GRANT        To promote the agriculture development in the region of Belene through creation of co-operative
ASSISTANCE FOR Tl IE               (CARBULG)                                          farms (PRIVAT'F ENl'ERPRISES)
AGRICUL'I'URE
DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT BELENE
(578/96)
SUBSBCTOR;                         ____ _7_
FOOD1) CROPS              ______________  ______________________5]
51



PROJECT NUMBER             Durati   Country/Donor        Total        Type/a'erms      Project Objectives (Beneficiary Institution)
AND TI'T'LE                on                            Amount in
tRSP
BU I./AGK 0044 Cl i       96-03    SWI/S WGOV            2,110        I'A/GRANT        Private Bulgarian farmers are assisted in optimization of their production, in order to be prepared for
SUSTAINABLE                         (PRIV)                                             the market economy requirements in Agriculture. Srnall credits will be rcimbursed in Lev and will
AGRICUI,L'URE (75/95)                                                                  form a revolvinig fund for further projects. (PRIVATE ENTERPRISES)
BUL/AGR/0073 NETH         97-00    NET/DUTChI I GOV    1,240          FTC/GRANT        To supporl private seed potato co- operatives in the regions of Samokov and Smoljan. (PRIVATE
DEVELOPMENT OF                      (AGRIMENT)                                         i-EN'T'ERPRISES)
SEED POTATO SECTOR
BIJIJAGR/0090             99-99    ARCi/GOB ARG          3            F'lC/GRANI       'The main objective of the project is the exchange of experience of Argentina in the field of potato
AGRENTINA SUPPORT                   (DEXI)                                             growing industry and the selection improvement of different potato plants in particular, by
TO THE IMPROVEMEN'T                                                                    organizing a training course for a Bulgarian expert from the "Maritza" Institute of horticulturc in
OF POTATO GROWING                                                                      Plovdiv. (MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FORESTS)
TECHNOIOGIES (3516 /
BU)
BUL/AGR/0092 EBRD         99-05     EBRD (DEXI)          15,000       IPT/LOAN         To facilitate the development of a transparent and efficient grain market. (MINISTRY OF
GRAIN RECEIPT                                                                          AGRICULTURE AND FORESTS)
PROGRAM I- )
BUL/AGR/0088 BMZ          99-99    GFR/BMZ (G'Il'Z)      123          FTC/GRANT        'I'he main objective of the project is to develop a legal tramework oni tobacco production.
SUPPORT ON TFIE                                                                        (MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FORESTS)
DEVELOPMENT OF
REGULATORY
FRAMEWORK ON
TABACCO
PRODUCTION
(98 0250 5-009.00)
BUL/AGR/0082 BELG         98-99    BEL/BELGOV            500          FTC/GRANT        To elaborate environmentally and animal friendly nutrition values of fodder for the production of
SUPPORT FOR                         (AGR)                                              pork meat in Bulgaria. The final aim of the project is to adapt the whole chain of production of pork
IMPROVEMENT OF                                                                         meat - from producers to consumers, for meeting the European UJnion norms. (PRIVATE
PORK MEAT                                                                              ENTERPRISES)
PRODUCTION (0620/98-
BUL/AGR/0045 CH           96-99    SWi/SWGOV             4,335        FTC/GRANT        The main objective of the project is to assist the Bulgarian Directorate of Forests to the Ministry of
SUSTAINABLE                         (FOR)                                              Agriculture, Forests and Agrarian Reform in the elaboration and implementation of a National
DEVELOPMENT OF                                                                         strategy on sustainable development of forests. (COMMITTEE OF FORESTS)
FORESTS (84/96 + 1/97)
52



PROJECT NUMBER            Durati   Country/'Donior    f Total      Type/rerms       Project Objectives (Beneficiary institution)
AND lTIT LE               on                           Amount in
BUL/AGRI0085 B,MZ         99-03    GFR/BMZ (GTZ)    1.258           FTC/GRANT       The main objective of the Project is to contribute to the developnsent oft ie regulatory framework
SUPPORT FOR                                                                         and support the. forest owners union to further develop forest evaluation methods and introduce a
RESTITUTION OF                                                                      system of training and consulting for private foresters. (MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND
FORESTS AND                                                                         FORESTS)
FORESTRY (99.0296.1-
001.00)                                                                                      ___, .   .    ,    .
BUL/IND/0057 EBRD        98-05    EBRD(PRIV)           23,422      IPA LOAN         To support the mu)dernizationof the Bulgarian wine industry through an EBRD syndicated loan and
WINE INDUSTRY                                                                       equity participation in Domainie Bouyar- a leading Bulgarian wine producer and exporter company.
MODERNIZATION                                                                       To fund the expansion of project facilities of two existing wineries - in Jambol and Shoumen and
THIORUGII SUPPORT TO                                                                the construction of a third greenfield winery in the town of Sliven
TIIE INVESTMFNT
PR(OG;RAMME OF
DOMAINF BOYAR
0DTR/012fI JAPANE SE      97-02    JPtN-3J (SOk)       1,081        FTCffiRANT      'lo improve the production, marketing and quality of dairy produce (VARIOUS INSTITUTIONS)
PROJECI' FOR
FEltMENTED DAIRY
PRODUCTS 
C A ' - " . P H                    _  _   _  _, _".'_                                      '  ' -  ' : '   _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _. _  .  _  .  _  ,   _
BULUADM/0080 NETH         98-99    NET/DLCTH GOV   700              FTClGRAN'i    lo establish an operational system for cadastre and public land registration and the needed
ESTABLISHMENT OF                   (DEXI)                                           organization in the towns of Dobritch, Baltchik and Kavarsa, (MINISTRY OF REGIONAL
OPERATIONAL                                                                         DEVELOPMENT AND PUBLIC WORKS)
SYSTEM FOR
CADASTI-RE AND
PUBLIC LAND
RECIS'I'RA'I'ION IN
DOBRITCH DISTRICT
,fDR1I2Th  AFFARS AD       '                                      I    :,: ,---        ; .'   '     ..  -,,.:-
1-I TER N-A lT1 :i LLA W          ,.. >,,.......  .. :    ' :  :    :  _ . , _: _ _   _ - ; _ , ' _ - _^ _ - _ - _ - ' _ ' _ _ _- _ ' - _ - - _ : _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _.
BULUADMI01'08 EU          99.00    E.U-COM (DFXI)    791            FTC/GRANTI    io develop the agrneultural administration. veterinary and phvsosaninarv control: approsximation ot
fWINNING                                                                            legislatioin. harinonicatioo of customs legislation. structural cohesion ('I HR GOVERNMENT)
C'OVENANTS 1999          ______      I_-
Notes:
1) Based on Development Cooperraion Reporl )999 BULGARiA, UNDP. October 2000
2) FTC stands for Free-Standmng Technical Cooperation IP I stands for Investment Project Assistance with Technical Cooperation Component.
53



ANNEX 7
Documents in proiect files:
Approach to Reforms of SPS Regime in Bulgaria
Report on Proposals for ReJbrms of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Regulations
Preliminary Report Strategic Grain Reserves Management
Bulgarian Banking of the Agricultural Sector. The Peoples Group Ltd. (April 1999)
Equipment Leasing in Bulgaria. The Peoples Group Ltd. (April 1999)
Mortgage in the Agricultural Sector. Renee Giovarelli. (April 1999)
Strategic Grain Reserves Management. John Gray. (September 1999)
Survey offarmers, Agribusinesses and Machinery Owners. Anna Georgieva. (June 1999)
Study of Current Siatus of Seed Market in Bulgaria. Anna Georgieva. (April 2000)
Bulgaria Forestry Sector: Analysis of the Transition Process and Options for Further
Development. Gerhard Dieterle and Karl Kehr. (November 2000)
Bulgaria ASAL II - Rural Finance. Kenneth L. Peoples, Frank W. Naylor, Jr. ( September
2000)
Bulgaria - ASAL II.- Mortgage Lending. Rick Gaynor, Renee Giovarelli. (October 2000)
Assessment of Impediments for the Development of the Warehouse Receipt System in
Bulgaria. Daniel Acs. (November 2000)
Bulgaria ASAL 11 Land Restitution. Rick Gaynor, Renee Giovarelli. (October 2000).
Special Law on Saving and Credit Cooperatives - Republic of Bulgaria. Final Comments
and Suggestions. Kenneth L. Peoples, Frank W. Naylor, Jr. ( September 2000)
Agriculture Sector Notes (fertilizers, the State Reserve, seasonal developments). Anna
Georgieva (2000).
State and Tendency in the Development of the Land Market in Bulgaria. SAPI, Land
Commissions with MAF. (November 2000).
Food and Agriculture in Btulgaria. The Challenge of Preparingfor EU Accession. Csaba
Csaki, John Nash, Achim Fock, Holger Kray. (2000).
54



Agricultural Support Policies in Transition Economies: Bulgaria. Henry F. Gordon,
Nedka Ivanova, and Nikolya Nikolov. (2000).
Food Control and Quality. Michael A. Canon, FAO Sub-regional Office for Central and
Eastern Europe. (May 1999)
Local Finance. Stefan Ivanov. (March 1999)
Possible Changes to the Legal Framework for Mortgages in Bulgaria. Renee Giovarelli,
Rural Development Institute. (April 2000)
Agribusiness Forum 2000 Conference Summary. Kenneth L. Peoples (May 2000)
National Plan for the Development ofAgricultural and Rural Regions 2000-2006.
(September 1999)
Note on Tobacco sub-sector. (October 1999)
Grain Warehouse Receipts System and Grain Quality Standards. Simon Gill (April
2000)
Determinants of Rural Household Consumption. Ram6n Lopez and Oscal Melo,
University of Maryland. (December 1999)
55



ANNEX 8
Bulgaria at a glance                                                                    1/12101
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Central   middle_   -
Bulgaria      Asia  income         Development diamond
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                           8 2        475     2,094                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                      1390       2,150      1.200
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                        l1 4       1,022     2,513
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%                                            -0.5        01         1 1 I
Labot force (14)                                         -06         0.6        1.2     GNP                                Gross
per                              primary
Most recent etimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                    capita          \              enrollment
Poverty (% of population below nationafpoverty line)
Urban population (% oftota/population)                     68         67        43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                           71         69        69
Intantmortality (per1,0001ivebirths)                       15         22        33
Child malnutrition (% of chidren under 5)                              8        15                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source  (% of population)                              86
Illiteracy (%ofpopulation age 15+)                          2          3        16
Gross primary enrollment  (% of school-age population)     99        100       114                Bulgaria
Male                                                    100        101       114                Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                   98         99       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998       1999---- ---- --
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billions)                                .      217        12.3       124
Gross domestic investment/GOP                            331        147        19.0
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                        46 4       45.2      441                        Trade
Grossdomesticsavings/GDP                                 31.4       137        11.3
GrossnationalsavingslGDP                                 28.9       133        12.0 
Current account balancelGDP                              -3.7       -0 5        S       Domestic
Interest paymentslGDP                                     2.9        3 7        3 3                                   Investment
Total debttGDP                                           46.6       818        79       Savings
Total debt service/exports                               29 1       20 6       15 5
Present value of debVGDPP
Present value of debt/exports
Indebtedness
1979-89   1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                    41      -3.3       3.5        2.4        4.9         -     u/gana
GNP per capita                         3 8      -2.1      5.3        3.5        5 5                Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services          3.2     -64      -15.6       -5.2        8 7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth of investment and GDP -PS)
(% of GDP)                                                                              60o
Agriculture                                              10,9       18 7       15 1     60 -
Industry                                                 59 4       25 5      23 4                                r
Manufacturing                                                     1 7 10     145       20 
Services                                                 29.7       55.7      61.5       00-   -o_    5--k ,
Private consumption                                      621        712       72 8       t40 -
General government consumption                           16.5       15.1       15.9               _GDI                GDP
Imports of goods and services                            48,2       46.3      51 9
1979-89   1989-99      1998       1999      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growsth)
Agriculture                                    -2 0      -0 5        1.4        0 6     30
Industry                                        6.3      -5.6        4.3      -44       20
Manufacturing                                                      6 5       -5.9     10
Services                                        5.1      -1.6        4 0       11.8
Private consumption                             2.8      -4.2        4 7       -2 9             9     9
General government consumption                  6.9    -10.5         4.0        2 0
Gross domestic investment                       4.6      -3.0       44.3       187     -20
Imports of goods and services                   31       -9.6       -2 8        5 1                  Exports         Imports
Gross national product                          3 9      -2.8        4.6        3 0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
56



ANNEX 8
Bulggaria
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1998      1999     Inflation )%)
Domestic prices                                                                       10
(% change)                                                                            1 200
1 000
Consumer prices                                                    22.3       0.5      800
Implicit GDP deflator                                    6.7       22.2       3.1      600
400-
Government finance                                                                     200 - - -
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                      0
Current revenue                                         64.4       38 3      39 1               94   95   96   97   98   o9
Current budget balance                                   7.6        5.0       4.2      >      '' GDP deflator  --CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                 -0 9        2 7       1.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1979     1989       1998      1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                    7,584      4 193     3,967     6,000
Consumer goods                                  -    1,960      1,303     1.338                      _
Capital goods                                  -.   1,150         673       605     40
Manufactures                                             -.       721      651 ~      0
Total imports (cif)                                    8343       4,574     5,031
Food                                                   536        192       190      00
Fuel and energy                                      2,585      1,151     1,180     1 0.
Capital goods                                  ..    3164       1,070     1,061 
Export price index (1995=100)                            74        101       101            93   94   95  96   97  98  99
Import price index (1995=100)                            48         82        87                  i Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                155       122       117
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1979     1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP%)
Exports of goods and services                    .    8,749       5,981     5,752      6
Imports of goods and services                          9,077      5,989     6,498      4-
Resource balance                                        -328         -B     -746       2
Net income                                       .      -546      -283      -218       2        94   9996   J7   96   i
Net current transfers                                    76        230       300       ,
Current account balance                                 -798       -61      -664      -6
Financing items (net)                                   368        393      1,030         i
Changes in net reserves                                 430       -332      -366      -12
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           ..       ..      3 057     3,222
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)           0.00130  0.00182        1.76      1 84
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            71   10,137      10,024     9,891
IBRD                                           0        0        697       821
IDA                                            0        0          0         0                      G460 A821
Total debt service                               7    2,580       1.296      931                                       1 282
IBRD                                           0        0         57        64
IDA                                            0        0          0         0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                      D 399
Official grants                                0        0         71        80
Official creditors                             0       61         73       236                                      E 989
Private creditors                             14      808         31       177
Foreign direct investment                                        537       783           F 0040
Portfolio equity                                                  19         2
World Bank program
Commitments                                    0        0        101       176      A - IBRD                     E - Bllatera
Disbursements                                  0        0        197       213      B - IDA    D - Other rruiilateral  F - Frlvate
Princpal repayments                            0        0         20        22      C - IMF                      G - Shori-terr,
Netflows                                       0        0        176       191
Interest payments                              0        0         37        42
Net transfers                                  0        0        140       149
Development Economics                                                                                                    1112/01
57






MAP SECTION






S   c     I         z                       m                                         |                                            >      O     o    t/~~~~~~~~~~~ c
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
v                                                                                       s  >   ,   f  '$  ^,    n    =-    !   '    t   -  S~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
<                     <                 J           X -                      W   .  Q  t   t                        o  .o                  s y           C:
c ) Q)                                                 t b7                                 <j                               do2 
G x. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                                     z                                                            Icr
oK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v L                           F                                               Q3



