Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15336
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(CREDIT 1814-NEP)
FEBRUARY 7, 1996
Agricultural and Water Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.0:     NRs 22.30       1987 (at appraisal)
NRs 26.09       1988
NRs 28.55       1989
NRs 32.18       1990
NRs 43.26       1991
NRs 47.59       1992
NRs 49.02       1993
NRs 50.00       1994/5 (at ICR preparation)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)  = 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles
I hectare (ha) = 2.47 acres =1.50 bighas
I million cubic meter (Mm3) = 810) acre-feet or 35.3 Mft3
1 cubic meter per second (m3/s) = 35.31 cubic foot per second (cfs)
1 cubic foot per second (cfs) = 0.028 cubic meters per second (m3/sec)
I metric ton = 2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 16 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       Asian Development Bank
CAD      Command Area Development
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CMC      Chatra Main Canal
DOI      Department of Irrigation
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
IIIMGN   His Majesty's Government of Nepal
ICB       Internaional Competitive Bidding
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
iP       Irrigation Policy
JT       Junior Technician
LCF      Labor Conversion Factor
M & E    Monitoring & Evaluation
MUV       Manufacturers Unit Value
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
POE       Panel of Expert
POP       Project Operation Plan
RWS       Rotational Water Supply
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
SCF       Standard Conversion Factor
SMHP    Sunsari Morang Headworks Project
SMIDB   Sunsari Morang Imgation Development Board
SMIP     Sunsari Morang Irrigation Project
SMIS     Sunsari Morang Irrigation System
TIU       Tertiary irrigation unit
WUA       Water Users' Association
WUC       Water Users' Conmittee
WUCC   Water Users' Coordinating Committee
WUCCC  Water Users' Central Coordinating Conmittee
WUGs   Water Users' Groups
kharif    Wet Season (June to October)
rabi     Dry Season (November to Februarv)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(Credit Number 1814-NEP)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Description
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                             ii
Part I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                      1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives                                      1
Statement of Project Objectives                              1
Evaluation of Project Objectives                             3
B. Achievement of Project Objective                                        5
C. Major Factors Affecting The Project                                     11
D. Project Sustainability                                                  13
E. Bank Performance                                                        14
F. Performance of Borrower                                                 15
G. Assessment of Outcome                                                   15
H. Future Operation                                                        16
I. Key lessons Learned                                                     17
Part II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments                                            18
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits                                        20
Table 3: Project Timetable                                                 21
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements - Cumulative Estimated and Actual       21
Table 5: Key Performance Indicators                                        22
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation                              23
Table 7: Studies included in Project                                       23
Table 8A: Project Costs                                                    24
Table 8B: Project Financing                                                24
Table 9. Economic Costs and Benefits                                       25
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants                                        25
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                    26
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                                     26
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions                                         27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents mnay not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (contd.)
Description
APPENDICES
Appendix 1: Aide-Memoire of Supervision/Implementation Completion
Reporting Mission                                         28
Appendix 2: Economic Re-evaluation                                    39
Table 1: Crop Budget for Stage - II (without project)              43
Table 2: Crop Budget for Stage - I & II (with project)             44
Table 3: Crop Yields and Production Inputs                         45
Table 4: Financial and Economic Prices                             46
Table 5: Economic Price Estimate for Tradable Commodities          47
Table 6: Cropping Intensity and Crop Area                          48
Table 7A: Flow of Benefits in Stage - II and Stage-I               49
Table 7B: Build-up of Development Area & Yields, Input, Intensity  50
Table 7C: Incremental Net Value of Crop Production (Stage I)       51
Table 7D: Incremental Net Value of Crop Production (Stage II)      52
Table 8a, 8b, 8c: Yearwise Investment of Costs of Stage II, Stage I, SMHP  53-55
Table 9: Conversion Index for Local and Foreign Costs              56
Table lOA & 10 B: Annual Budget Requirement for O&M                57-58
Table 11: Benefit and Cost Streams                                 59
Table 12A: Farm Income of Typical Farm (1.4 ha) without Project    60
Table 12B: Farm Income of Typical Farm (1.4 ha) with Project       61
Table 13A: Farrn Income of Typical Farm (3.9 ha) without Project   62
Table 13B: Farmn Income of Typical Farm (3.9 ha) with Project      63
Table 14A & 14B: Crop Coverage without and with Project            64-65
Table 14C & 14D: Crop Budget without and with Project              66-67
Table 15: Incremental Employment Impact                            68
Appendix 3: Borrower's Evaluation of the Project                      69
Appendix 4: Project Performance Audit Report of Sunsari Morang Irrigation and
Drainage Project (Credit 8 12-NEP) Evaluation Summary     80
Map: IBRD 19902 Sunsari Morang II Project Area                        83



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(Credit Number 1814-NEP)
Preface
This is the implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Sunsari Morang Irrigation II
Project (SMIP-II) in Nepal, for which Credit 1814-NEP in the amount of SDR 31.2 million
(US$ 40.0 million equivalent) was approved on June 2, 1987 and made effective on February 3,
1988. The Credit was closed on March 31, 1995, as originally scheduled. Final disbursement
took place on November 3, 1995, at which time an undisbursed balance of SDR 2.8 million was
canceled.
The ICR was prepared by the Task Manager, Ohn Myint, Agriculture and Water
Operations Division, Country Department II, South Asia Regional Office, and reviewed by
Mr. Shawki Barghouti, Chief, Agriculture and Water Operations Division, and Ms. Kazuko
Uchimura, Project Advisor.
Preparation of ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission in
March /April 1995. The mission comprised the previous Task Manager at appraisal, Mr. Y.K.
Choi, Senior Agriculturist, and Ms. Ai-Chin Wee, Senior Economist, Mr. R.C. Mishra, Associate
Program Officer, C.P. Rauniyar, Consultant, of the Nepal Resident Mission. It is based on
material in the project file, discussions with the consulting team preparing a third phase Sunsari
Morang Irrigation Project, project staff, and beneficiary farmers. The Borrower contributed to
the preparation of ICR by furnishing a project completion report prepared by its consultants, a
project operation plan, and an evaluation report, and by arranging all field visits. The Borrower's
comments and evaluation on the project are included in Appendix III to the ICR.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
(Credit Number 1814-NEP)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The Sunsari Morang Irrigation II Project (SM1:P-II) financed the second phase of IDA
support for modification and rehabilitation of Sunsari Morang Irrigation System (SMIS). The
system was built in early 1 970s with an irrigable area of 68,000 ha. Since inception, the system
was faced with problems of sediment intrusion and water distribution. Later, the system's dry
season water intake became progressively worse by a formation of sand shoal in front of it as the
main river course migrated to the other side. The Bank financed to overcome these shortcomings
by modification and rehabilitation of the system in phased manner. In 1978, SMIP-I financed the
modification and rehabilitation works on first 9,750 ha, and in 1988, the current SMIP-II financed
a seven-year time slice of modifications and rehabilitation on another 16,700 ha.
Project Objectives and Works
2.    The project aimed to ensure reliable and equitable year-round water supply system to
increase agricultural production. The aim was to be achieved by: (i) protecting the system
against siltation by an adequate facility; (ii) improving O&M procedures by promoting farmers'
participation; (iii) providing technical support and training to strengthen local capacity to operate
the project; and (iv) strengthening linkage between the Department of Agriculture (DOA) and the
Department of Irrigation (DOI).
3.  The project works include: improvements to main canal and structures; desilting operations;
rehabilitation and improvement of distribution and drainage networks on 16,700 ha; modifications
of distribution system in Stage I (SMIP-I) area to an easier operation; institutional support and training
by providing consulting services for design and construction supervision; training, monitoring and
evaluation, and support for incremental establishment and maintenance costs.
Changes after Appraisal
4.    The primary problem in the project is siltation. For the siltation problem, the Bank
Appraisal team had consistently recommended to use an option of a desilting basin and dredgers
in solving sediment problems since Stage I. But due to the Borrower's concerns over high
investment and technical skills required by the recommended dredger option, Stage I was
instituted with an alternate solution using sediment ejectors (vortex tubes). But it was found not
effective. Again, at the Stage II (SMIP-II), no definite solution for protection against siltation
was decided at Appraisal. Instead, it was agreed to delay the implementation of the desilting
facility until further studies showed a definite viability of recommended dredger option



iii
(mechanical solution) over a cheaper hydraulic flushing option, in spite of the unsuccessful
experience with sediment ejectors installed under Stage 1, the working principle of which is
similar to hydraulic flushing. However, the costs for the basin and the dredgers were provided in
the Stage II project.
5.    As for the dry season intake problem, due to the same concern of costs, a maintenance
solution involving excavation of a supply channel through the sand shoal was considered in the
project. The problem associated with the distribution was planned to be resolved by introducing
tertiary minor distribution networks, which would be operated in rotational manner.
6.   The studies conducted by a consulting team, which was reviewed by an independent Panel of
Experts (POE) in 1991, strongly endorsed the mechanical option with some modifications on the
Stage-II intake design. The studies indicated that without the new headworks project, the previous
investments including SMIP-I would become questionable to achieve the objectives. Then only,
almost after ten years of delay on the issue, the Borrower and the Bank finally agreed to modify
the SMIP-1I project to reflect the outcome of the studies on siltation and acute intake problems.
7.   The proposed modifications were: (a) moving the intake site to 1,300 m upstream; (b)
constructing a larger capacity desilting basin utilizing dredgers to remove silt; and (c) constructing a
micro-hydro unit in the head reach of main canal to provide hydro-power for dredger operations. The
technical solution proposed by the studies requires additional funding for the above new items (a) and
(c) to prepare the facilities not envisaged in the SMIP-I Credit. Therefore, the Borrower obtained a
complementary IDA Credit of SDR 19.0 million (US$ 28.0 million equivalent) in 1993 to implement
the Sunsari Morang Headworks Project (SMHP), which is currently under implementation.
Implementation Experience and Results
8.   Although the SMIP-II had proceeded since 1988, considerable difficulties and uncertainty
were encountered in implementation in initial years due to unresolved sediment issues and
inadequate budget funding. These were exacerbated by a trade and transit impasse with India in
1990, and a civil unrest during democratization turmoil in 1991. The progress was also impeded
by frequent turnover of managerial staff, delays in establishing the Monitoring and Evaluation
Division (M&E), in appointing Farmers' Association Organizers, and in establishing linkage
between the project and the district agriculture office.
9.   The implementation had improved only after the decision on SMIHP and apparent
satisfactory performance of a larger desilting basin built in early 1992. At ICR, about 93% of the
targeted works were completed, partly due to advanced procurement of ICB civil works, and
partly due to concerted efforts of the project staff, the consultants, and the civil works contractor.
Major incomplete items are tertiary drains (about 50%) in Sitagunj Distributory (8,400 ha) of Stage
II area due to farmers resistance in land acquisition for drain excavations, and modification of water
courses in the Stage I area (about 90%) due to uncertainty in earlier years.
10. The project achieved partial objective by completing minor irrigation distribution networks,
a larger desilting basin, and by possible application of rotational irrigation supply with increased
specific discharge in the last two years. The rotational water supply with higher specific discharge



iv
is expected to significantly resolve the distribution problem of competing water demands at peak
periods (land preparation and transplanting) compared to the system's conventional continuous
supply with low specific designed discharge. Efficiency of water delivery can be improved if the
farmers develop and continue to use field channels in irrigation.
11. The new desilting basin can trap about 60% of incorning coarse sediments (greater than 6
micron) to its full capacity. To maintain enough room for sediment on continuous basis in the
basin, dredging is required in rainy season. The achievement of sediment protection is partial
without full operation of dredgers. Two dredgers are now in operation since July 1995.
12. Farmers have responded well to the modifications and expressed satisfaction with the designed
water supply system. They indicated their willingness to take over O&M responsibility if the system is
maintained properly. The O&M aspect of the project was modified in the course of implementation to
transfer completed tertiary irrigation units (less than 1000 ha distribution canal networks) following the
new Government's Irrigation Policy of 1992. At ICR, about 94% of water user groups (WUGs) in the
systems have been legalized, and about 45% developed tertiary systems were turnover to them.
Collection of water charges have been revived in 50 percent of the turnover areas.
13. Actual Project Cost. The actual cost of the project was estimated to be about US$ 45.13 million
or 91% of the Appraisal costs of US$ 49.9 million (NRs 1,221.8 million) including contingencies.
Out of the IDA Credit of US$ 40.0 million equivalent (SDR 31.2 million), US$ 39.61 million
(SDR 28.4 million) have been disbursed.
14. The project's partial impact is apparent by the increase in cropping intensity to 169% at ICR
in the developed area, which would otherwise be no more than 130% to 138% without the project
if the siltation did not stop water supply. Farmers also reported that more water reached the tail-
ends of the system after improvement. Increase in yields and production of main crops (paddy and
wheat) was also observed. However, over 10% of the developed areas still have problems in receiving
sufficient, timely water due to deficient alignment of water courses. This indicated the need for
extensive consultation with farmers in preparing the water course alignments during constructions.
15. Economic Rate of Return. (ERR). The ERR for Stage 1I as a stand alone project with prorata
costs of SMIHP was re-estimated at 16%, as weD as a combined SMIP I, SMIP-II with total SM4HP
with and without the project considering the sunk costs of SMIP-I has shown an ERR between 11%
to 19%. The benefit and cost streams used in the analysis are detailed in Appendix 2. These results,
compared to 13% to 21% estimated at Appraisal, are lower because Appraisal did not consider the fuiDl
extent of SMHP investment as it was not the adopted solution. The calculations are, however,
speculative and partial because the new intake is still under construction and its actual costs as well as
its impact is still unknown at this early stage.
Project Sustainability and Key Factors to achieve Objectives
16.    The sustainability of SMIP-II itself is uncertain without SMHP. Even with SMHP, the
sustainability of the project hinges on many factors, such as: (a) success in solving sediment and
intake problems by SMHP works; (b) proper and capable operation and management of mechanical
and electrical equipment installed under SMHP by the project agency in long run, (c) sufficient O&M



v
funding by the Government; and (d) support and strengthening of farmers' and O&M staff's to make
understanding of the new water management principle and practice.
17    The system of diverting water from large rivers in geologically fragile zone, has always inherent
risks of river course changes due to land slides or glacier outbursts in upper catchment. The risk was
minimized by the POE's selection of the new intake. Gradual transfer of knowledge through on-the-job
training in operation of mechanical and electrical equipment was arranged in SMHP for two successive
years after installation.
18.   However, there is a high risks in O&M funding which was always inadequate countrywide.
HMGN's capacity to support O&M is limited. Within the available scarce resources, the Government
should prioritize O&M expenditure to areas where heavy investments are committed. Besides, water
charges collection system must be strengthened. HMGN agreed in the DCA of SMHP to charge and
collect water charges with a rate sufficient to cover the O&M costs of the main and distribution canals
in Stage I and Stage II areas after receiving adequate supplies of silt free water. It must be aware that
revision of water charges is a country-wide issue, and should extend beyond the project.
19.   The sustainability of the water user groups depends upon satisfactory performance of the
system when complete. This can be achieved only by proper O&M to ensure timely delivery of
silt-free water year round, and the government's support in the management transfer activities.
Summary of Findings and Future Operations
20.   Findings. The overall conclusion of the project experience is that physical and institutional
development aspects of the project were inadequately assessed, prepared, and only partly appraised
initially. In terms of the mounting technical and institutional problems that the project is currently
facing, it is now apparent that the process of decision making to proceed with the project investment in
both Stage I and II seems too quick. However, physical implementation of the project in command
area development is quite satisfactory and the new intervention of formation of water user associations,
legalization and turning over of the completed tertiary irrigation distribution units to beneficiaries, who
are expected to take full O&M in future, can be regarded as a good start for the project sustainability at
the tailend and a notable achievement.
21.   Farmers understanding of the new rotation irrigation system is still limited as they are used to a
more conventional type of continuous irrigation. The improvement activities introduced in the system
in relation to operation, training of staff and farmers to understand the new mode of operation, proper
maintenance of the system, turnover of part of the system to farmers, and collection of water charges
to maintain the system properly, are all inter-linked with each other. Continued support by the
Government of this activity is important.
22.   Plan for Future Operation. HMGN has agreed with the Bank to pursue the operation as
detailed in Project Operation Plan (POP) of January 1995 which was prepared based on the
implementation experience (footnote 10). The POP provides a time bound plan for tum over of all
tertiary canal systems to water user associations by 1997. At full operation of SMHP in mid 1996, the
POP would estimate crop water requirements, timing and quantities of water to be delivered



vi
effectively. The POP also provides a series of monitoring parameters by which perfomiance of the
project can be judged.
23.   As the system is designed with a new rotational supply method, the M&E division should be
strengthened and continued till the full tum over and water management training programs are
completed. No constraints on monitoring should arise because of budget shortffll. The annual
estimated maintenance budget requirement during management transfer diminishes steadily when all
canals serving areas less than 1,000 ha have been handed over to water users. For a successful
transition, HMGN must pay attention to ensure that: (a) the process of tum over continues; (b) DOI is
reorganized to facilitate joint O&M of the system; (c) adequate funding for full O&M is secured by
DOI; and (d) the collection of water charges continues in improved service areas.
Key Lessons Learned
24.   Lessons for Future Projects. The main lessons learnt from the project are:
(i)   In situations where difficult technical problems prevail, specialists in the technical field should
be used extensively. Technical suggestions provided by concemed specialists should be implernented
before committing heavy investment. No works should be started, unless technical issues are properly
identified and solutions are articulated.
(ii)    Unreliable water supply for any reason destroys farmer confidence in the ability of irrigation
authorities and leads to weak cooperation in construction and O&M works.
(iii)   Participation of beneficiaries in the design, construction and implementation, and O&M is very
important as early as possible, especially in large public irrigation system, where available water
resources have to be shared among many beneficiaries in an organized and timely manner.
(iv)   Training farmers to understand the design of the water system and its performance is necessary
for large public irrigation systems where they have to share according to agreed time and quantity. The
success of operation and sustainability of infrastructure depend not only on physical quality of the
structures but also on beneficiaries' understanding, contribution and commitment.
(v)    The design adopted for a large public irrigation systems must be flexible, simple and socially
acceptable by small farmers and their communities. Social acceptability should be tested before
committing heavy investment.
(vi)   Service charges to cover full O&M costs of public utilities after improvement must be imposed
and this should be considered as a country-wide issue in any investment project.
(vii)  Public and government awareness of proper utilization of natural resources must be instigated
through various means of investment lending.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION I PROJECT
(Credit Number 1814-NEP)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
Statement of Project Objectives
1.    Project Background. With marginal increases of crop production offset by population
growth, His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMGN) emphasized increasing agricultural
production through improvements of irrigation facilities in the Terai plain. The Terai occupies
16% of the country's total area, 50% of the country's cultivated land, and over 80% of potential
irrigable area. In support of this objective, the Bank approved a series of modification and
rehabilitation of public irrigation projects in the Terai, including rehabilitation of the Sunsari
Morang Irrigation System (SMIS).
2.    The SMIS is the largest irrigation system occupying about 68,000 ha of cultivable area in
the Terai of which about 58,000 are effectively irrigable. The original project was designed,
financed, and constructed in mid- I 960s to rnid- I 970s by the Government of India (GOI) under
Indo-Nepal bilateral aid agreement. The system diverts water from the left (east) bank of the Kosi
River. The intake and main canal were designed for a discharge capacity of 45.3 m3/sec, which
is equivalent to 0.66 liter/sec/ha rate of continuous supply over the whole original command area.
3.    The original SMIS had regulation structures installed only on secondary canals, and the
distribution canal system network was terminated at turnouts serving an area of more than 100-
200 ha. Because no minor canals were built below this level, the system had much wastage in
distribution and was difficult to management, which limited the effective irrigation to only about
60% of the designated area. Apart from the defective design in distribution network, the system
was troubled by heavy sediment intrusion at the intake site in monsoon, and the problem became
progressively worse over the years as the main river course migrated westward (towards to the
right bank). As a result, the system has faced with sediment intrusion during wet season when
water is easy to extract, and with difficulty in intake of water during dry season (when water is
sediment free) due to a formation of large sand shoal near to the existing intake structure. Thus,
the original project did not fulfill its objectives. HMGN requested IDA assistance to overcome
the shortcomings of the original project.
4.    IDA involvement in the project has been divided into stages. The first stage, SMIP-I,
which covers 9,750 ha., was completed in 1987 after three years of extension. The follow-up
second stage project is the subject of this report, the Sunsari Morang Irrigation II Project (SMIP-
II), which was designed to finance a seven-year time slice of modification and rehabilitation of
another 16,700 ha of SMIS. The SMIP-Il was completed timely without any extension.



2
5.    The main objectives of the project were to increase agricultural production by: (a)
improving design and operation of the irrigation system to ensure reliable and equitable water
supply; (b) protecting the system from siltation by a suitable desilting facility; (c) improving O&M
procedures by enhancing beneficiary farmers' participation in O&M; (d) providing technical
support and training to strengthen local capacity to implement and operate the project; and (e)
strengthening linkages between the Department of Agriculture and the Department of Irrigation.
6.    Project Components included: (i) improvements to Chatra Main Canal (CMC) including
modifications to the head regulator; repair to main super passages; rehabilitation of drainage chutes on
the headreach; replacement of gates and repairs to head regulators of distributory canals; completion
of bridges; repairs and improvements to cross drainage works, siphons and access structures;
replacement of cross aqueduct structures and other miscellaneous minor works including desilting of
the CMC; (ii) improvement of desilting operations to provide a feasible desilting facility determined by
studies during the first two project years by evaluating further the viability of mechanical solutions
(a larger desilting basin provided with portable suction-cutter dredgers) against hydraulic flushing;
(iii) rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation distribution and drainage networks in Stage II
area (16,700 ha); (iv) modifications to the irrigation distribution works in Stage I area of 9,750 ha to an
easier operable design; (v) construction of offices, staff quarters, a guesthouse at Biratnagar, houses
for gate operators, and buildings for four irrigation block headquarters; (vi) procurement of
equipment. vehicles and spares for O&M, and installation of radio communication for the system
operation, and equipment necessary for desilting; (vii) technical support and training through the
provision of consultancy services for design and supervision of construction, training, monitoring
and evaluation, and studies; and (viii) support for incremental project establishment and
maintenance costs.
7.   Project Changes After Appraisal. As stated earlier, the system was faced with two inherent
difficulties: (i) removal of incoming sediment into the system in wet season, and (ii) extraction of
enough water in dry season. Based on the unsuccessful experience with the Stage I project in
solving sediment problems using vortex tubes in the main canal, the Stage-II Appraisal team
suggested three possible solutions to the sediment problem. These are: (i) a settling basin with
two portable suction-cutter dredgers (known as mechanical solution), (ii) a desilting facility based
on hydraulic flushing (known as hydraulic solution), and (iii) periodic extended closure of the
main intake at times of heavy sediment concentration in the river. The maintenance option
involving excavation of a supply channel to the intake at the end of every wet season was
considered as the solution to the difficult intake problem in dry season.
8.   The Appraisal team expressed that the feasibility of mechanical solution (option "i") is
technically quite certain than the option (ii). The option (iii), extended canal closure, is also not
feasible due to requirement for long duration of canal closures at times of high sediment
concentrations (sometimes exceeding over 50-60 days in monsoon) which may turn the system
into single cropping, or it may lead to enlarging the canal system involving major investment
costs. As for the second problem relating to difficult intake in dry season, HMGN's consultants
had proposed to relocate the intake site at about 2.3 km upstream of the existing intake and
connect to the canal system with a long tunnel. This was dropped on ground of heavy costs.
9.   However, HMGN had initially expressed concerns about heavy investment costs and
technical complexity of the mechanical option (i), which in their opinion, may not be
commensurate with technical skill available in Nepal. Instead, HMGN preferred the non-



3
mechanical (hydraulic flushing) solution (ii), and wished to pursue the mechanical solution only
when further technical studies show the non-feasibility of option (ii). For the dry season intake
problem, a 'hnaintenance scheme" requiring some river training with annual excavation of a supply
channel to the intake at the end of wet season, to ensure adequate supply, was accepted. The
Credit was approved with an understanding that additional studies on the sediment issues would
be conducted within the first two years of project.
10.   The results of sediment studies conducted by a project consulting firm in 1989/90 and
1990/91 to compare the viability of sediment removal by mechanical desilting versus hydraulic
flushing showed the non-viability of the latter solution. The findings were also endorsed by an
independent technical Panel of Experts (POE) invited to review the study in 1990. Moreover, the
consultants and POE also advised to move the intake site upstream to solve sediment problem in
monsoon and acute water intake problem in dry season'. Then only, the Borrower agreed to carry
out the consultants' and POE's recommendations and decided to modify the SMIP-II by: (a) moving
the intake site 1,300 m upstream of the existing intake; (b) constructing a larger capacity desilting
basin; (c) utilizing dredgers to remove deposited silt from the desilting basin; and (d) constructing a
micro-hydro unit in the headreach of the main canal to provide hydro-power for dredger operations.
The extent of technical solution and the cost provision under SMIP-LI did not cover full funding
requirement for these additional facilities under (a) and (d) to mitigate sediment and intake problems
effectively2. Therefore, the Borrower obtained a complementary IDA Credit of SDR 19.0 million
(US$ 28.0 million equivalent) in late 1992, for implementing a new Sunsari Morang Headworks
Project (SMHIP) which is now under construction. There was a time gap of about four years in
between the commencement dates of SMIP-II and SMHP.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
11.    Realism and Innovation. The design solution to protect the system against siltation was
conceptually clear to both appraisal teams of Stage-I as well as Stage-Il projects since inception,
and it was also not an unusually demanding objective for the Borrower3. However, decision
making for effective sediment control works took considerably longer than ziiecessary in both
projects due to the Borrower's concern over costs and complexity, and both Credits were
approved without ascertaining a complete solution. Therefore, the achievement of the objective
of ensuring sustainable and equitable distribution was doubtful until the commence of SMHP in
1993. The solution similar to hydraulic flushing by using vortex tubes installed in the Stage I
could not remove the heavy sediment volume. In that respect, the Project Performance Audit
Report (PPAR) for SMIP-I correctly highlighted the fact that the objective of the Stage-I project
was not achieved satisfactorily until 1990, without a properly designed follow-up project to
I   Details are in the Technical Annex I of SMHP - MOP Report No. P 5696-NEP, October 1992; Revised Feasibility Study
Report on "River and Canal Headworks Improvement and Schemes for Desilting Project Water Supply " - Sunsari
Morang Irrigation -II Project, NEDECO & NIPPON KOEI, October 1989; Report of the Panel of Experts (K. Mahmood,
E. L. Pemberton, P. Thimakorn, J. Huis in't Veld) on CMC Sediment Control and Water Supply, Februaiy 1990.
2   The SMIP-II Credit No. 1814-NEP covered US$ 2.2 million for the main desilting basin, USS 3.3 million for the
dredging equipment, and US$ 0.5 million for the additional consulting services. No fund was provided for the upstream
new intake structure and the power station, which are additional features proposed under the later studies.
3   Desilting with dredgers have been widely practised in the neighbouring India (West Bengal State) and limitedly used in
Nepal in some hydro-electric stations. But for the DOI, the technology may be novel and there was a thinking that uptake
of technical may be slower.



4
resolve the sediment issues. The Evaluation Summary of the PPAR is attached in AppendixA for
reference.
12.    But, it can be said that the project's objective of improvements in design and operation
principles of water distribution was realistic. As stated in para 2 above, the original unit area
design discharge of 0.66 I/sec/ha (specific discharge) is considered to be low for paddy based
irrigation, and it can normally satisfy 50%-60% of peak water requirement in earthen canal system
during land preparation period (July-August)4. Even if there was no constraint in water
availability, with the value of agricultural produce, it was costly to enlarge (or to line) the original
main and secondary canals and related structures, which were designed and built with the low
specific discharge. To supply irrigation water to only 50%-60% of the area in one year and stop
supply to the remaining area under a secondary system is also not practical and socially acceptable
in a small holder system like in SMIP. Under the circumstances, doubling the specific discharge
as designed in the newly introduced tertiary distribution canal networks, and transforming from
the original "continuous supply" to "rotational on-off' system is the most rational solution,
because the supply will closely satisfy the demand in peak water competing and requirement
period.
13.   The project was innovative in that it was built around eventual beneficiary farmers'
ownership and management of the distribution system. Formation of water users groups (WUG),
legalizing water user associations (WUA), and allowing them to participate in all stages of project
development works and O&M, are innovative tools, and they are in line with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) and HMGN's new Irrigation Policy -2049 (IP-2049). But to achieve
these objectives it needs continuous training of farmers and monitoring them for a long period to
get them in tuned to the new operation and joint management system.
14.  Complexity. The technical solutions given to sediment and distribution problems using
ungated on-off tertiary distribution system are conceptually simple and involve less demand on
management organization. However, proper maintenance of the canal system is very essential to
keep tertiary system in a maximum operable capacity with the open gated system. Adaptation of
a newly introduced rotational irrigation method by farmers, who are used to continuous field-to-
field irrigation, requires much training of both field staff and farmers. Moreover, solutions to the
sediment problems must be effective and conducive to gain farmers' willingness to adopt new
irrigation methods. To start, a larger desilting basin, provided in 1992 under the project, has
proven a partial success by trapping 50-60% of sediments5 even without continuous cleaning of
the basin by dredgers, and the solution has increased confidence of farmers to some extent.
15.  Responsiveness to Borrower's Circumstances. The project, if sustainable, will support the
development strategy of HMIGN to accelerate food production and rural income, to increase
employment opportunities in rural areas, and to reduce the O&M responsibility of the
Government in the public irrigation sector, by allowing beneficiary farmers to take over ownership
and management of part of the developed system.
4   The maximum irrigation demand with 80% probability for 5.0 mm/day effective rainfall period is as high as 1.9 I/sec/ha
as mentioned in SMIP-II water management reports and Project Operational Plan - January 1995.'
5   The siltation measurements taken at different section of the system showed that by having a larger desilting basin alone
can effectively reduce the sediment ingress volume by about 60% of its total (about 400,000 m3), though the trapping
efficiency declines as soon as the basin is filled in with sediment.



5
16.   Risks. There are two types of risk in the project, namely, technical (natural) and
institutional, which are similar and common to other large-scale public irrigation investments in
Nepal. By extracting water from one of the world's greatest rivers which has enormous
destructive power in monsoon, there is always a risk of failure associated with natural calamities,
if regulation of the project facility is not properly followed. To maintain and manage the
improved facilities, particularly those installed under the new headworks project, DOI staff and
farmers should be motivated and trained, as well as enough O&M funding must be provided to
the developed area.
17.   The technical risks are reduced or mitigated by following the advice of leading experts in
the technical design of desilting facilities in solving the sediment and intake problems. The
institutional risks are mitigated by introducing an on-the-job training component in the project for
O&M staff and farmers for regulation of the system facilities and water distribution for about
three years after completion of the project, by forming legalized WUAs, and by turning over part
of the system to beneficiaries for participatory joint management to ease the financial burden of
and ensure sustained O&M. The mitigation activities are still ongoing and it is early to determine
their effectiveness. Unless the technical solution provided under SMIP succeeds, and the
government is willing to support further training of staff and farmers, and to prioritize O&M
funding within its limited financial resources, the risks remain high for the sustainability of project
in long run.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
18.   Overall Achievement. The project's completion is timely, and with SMHP follow-up, has
so far partially achieved its physical, sectoral, and institutional development objectives. Macro-
economic policies and financial objectives were not applicable to the project. Gender or equity
issues were not specifically addressed, but can have indirect positive impacts through increased
farm incomes.
19.   Physical Objectives. To improve design and operation principles of the irrigation system
that would ensure a reliable and equitable water supply, the following items under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) contract works envisaged in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) of the
project were satisfactorily completed by May 1994, which was before the original Credit closing date
of March 31, 1995:
a)    Improvements to Chatra Main Canal (CMC) and Its Related Structures. Desilting of
about 1.3 million cubic meters of sediment in the main canal system, rehabilitation of
64 existing structures and construction of 31 new structures.
b)    Desilting Facility on the CMC Headreach. Construction of a new larger desilting basin
(length 990 m and bed width 60 m) was completed in May, 1992. Two cutter-suction
dredgers of 14.0 m3/hr capacity were procured, installed and tested. The dredger
operation has started partially since July 1995.
c)    Completion of Stage II Area Command Area Development (CAD). Development
works under the Stage II area of the project (16,700 ha) constructed down to field
outlets of water courses (28 ha) are generally satisfactorily with overall completion of



6
93% of original works targeted in SAR. However, the project completed only 46% of
tertiary drains mentioned in SAR for Sitagunj Distributory (8,400 ha), due to local
farmers' resistance to land acquisition at the construction (1992 to 1994). Later, it is
learnt that some farmers in the area realized the need for drainage, and even they
requested drains when the Credit was due to close. Detailed key indicators for project
implementation are shown in Table 5.
d)    Modification to Stage I Area CAD.   The gated water courses of larger blocks
(50 ha chaks) in the originally completed Stage I area (9,750 ha) was found
unmanageable by DOI and farmers, and the water courses were planned to be
transformed to non-gated water courses (28 ha chaks). But the program had been
deferred at the beginning due to time and budget constraints, as well as uncertainty in
resolving sediment problems. The modification was carried out on 1,000 ha of the area
after completion of the desilting basin, only when farmers were partly convinced by the
partial effectiveness of desilting basin. No further improvement was done after that.
e)    Buildings under the project were constructed according to need. The existing
guesthouse in Biratnagar was renovated. Only 3 new gate operator houses were newly
built and the rest were renovated. Modification of 3 out of 4 irrigation-block
headquarters were also completed. Two equipment storage buildings were additionaLly
constructed.
f)    Vehicles and Equipment. SMIS will have a new intake structure under the SMHP
Credit (Cr.2430-NEP). Procurement of heavy equipment which was planned under
SMIP-il for excavating temporary river chalnel diversion works in dry season was
therefore deleted. Some equipment for future emergency O&M was also deleted on
grounds that all major O&M works will be contracted in the future. Only some spares
for existing equipment and workshops, two passenger cars for training and 2 pick-up
jeeps, one station wagon, 12 motorcycles, and 128 bicycles were procured by the
project.
g)    Technical Assistance. The project had used 108.5 mm of expatriate consultants and
290.5 mm of local consultants for the design, implementation, and training of
irrigation system as against the appraisal provision of 110 mm and 452 mm which
includes for the study of siltation problems.
20.   The achievement of equitable water distribution at farm levels due to completion of
distribution networks and a larger desilting basin is hard to quantify in the absence of detailed
hydraulic data. The good side of new intervention is that the original continuous irrigation supply
designed with a very low specific discharge of 0.67 liter per second per ha on a continuous basis
has now been increased to double that amount at tertiary canal levels by applying rotational
irrigation. The "on-off' rotational supply at the tertiary levels satisfies the peak requirement,
which can significantly resolve competing water problems in distribution, and increases the
efficiency of water management. However, in order to ensure a full supply discharge in tertiary
distribution systems, the canals are to be properly maintained as designed at all times.
21.   As the system is still new, irrigation water reached the tail-ends of the system in the last
two seasons as expected after completion of the development works and eventually increased the



7
cropping intensity. This was also the first attempt to introduce water management practices in a
large public irrigation system in Nepal where farmers are used to continuous irrigation, hence
adaptation to rotational method at the outset was slow. This has picked up gradually in the last
three years in Stage II, after farmers gain confidence in the method, and after they witnessed some
positive effects of the larger desilting basin after 1992.6
22.    The new desilting basin has been designed with a capacity to trap the incoming coarse
sediments (greater than 6 micron) up to full capacity of about 3 50,000 m3. But in the absence of
continuous dredging, the active storage of the basin is reduced by continuous deposition of
sediment by time. At certain stage, the deposited sediments are entrained back into the stream
due to lowering of trapping capacity. This phenomenon indicated the necessity of continuously
cleaning deposited sediments with dredgers to maintain the capacity of basin and to get the best
results in sediment trapping. The sediment protection objective will be achieved partially by
having only desilting basin without full dredger operation as necessary.
23.    Establishing a separate Water Management, Monitoring & Evaluation Division in the
project, forning and legalizing WUGs, and providing training led to achieving the other project
development objectives of improving institutional capacity and O&M. Though there were some
irrigation rotation and time-share conflicts among farmers, in general, rotational supply of water
(RWS) worked well so far. Recent surveys' indicated that cropping intensity in Stage I and II areas
increased to 169% (against 125% in the nearby rain-fed area and 130%/o at appraisal of SMIP-II) and
the yields of main crops (paddy and wheat) also increased by about 80%. Over 70% of farmers in the
survey of the Stage II area expressed their satisfaction to the designed water supply system and
indicated their willingness to take over O&M responsibility, if the system is properly maintained.
However, the same survey indicated that not very high rate of farmers are aware of their WUA
responsibility.
24.    The practice of using field channels (4 ha command) in irrigation is novel to farmers practicing
field to field irrigation. The practice is gradually increasing to about 50% of the developed areas in the
system. WUGs in Jhumka pilot area (900 ha) are performing well ahead of other areas in all respects
as the area was developed ahead of the other secondary canals (only after 3 years under RWS). The
farmers from other areas are still on the learning curve to the new method. Over 10% of the developed
area still has problems in getting sufficient water in a timely manner, and the farmers are complaining to
the project management and WUC about deficient alignment of completed water courses. Because of
the time pressure in construction stage, consultation with farmers were less extensive in laying out
some water courses alignments, which created problems in post construction period.
25.   Sector Policy Objectives. One of the objectives of the newly promulgated Irrigation Policy
(1992) introduced to the project is to improve O&M procedures through farmer participation
after development. A yardstick to measure the achievement of this objective is farmer willingness
6   SAR mentioned that the system was faced with the serious siltation problem as soon as it opened after Stage I completion
in July 1986. The mninor canals and water courses suffered and many of them lost half of their conveyance capacity in one
season and farmers could not keep pace with the rapid rate of siltation. At least this kind of drastic siltation has not
happened after provision of the desilting basin although some 40% of sediment (about 150,000 m3) still intruded in the
downstream system in one year.
7   Detailed Studies and Design of Sunsari Morang Irrigation HII Project. (Evaluation of System Performance) Vol I Main Report - Nippon Koei
Co. Ltd. June 1995.



8
to take over ownership and management of the developed system. Turnover arrangements for
management transfer were not originally anticipated at Appraisal. This was introduced only after
promulgation of the revised IP- 1992, some five years after the Appraisal. At the Credit closing in
March 1995, there was an indication of success by completing turnover to respective Water User
Committees (WUCs) in 19 tertiary units (less than 1000 ha each) commanding about 7500 ha in
total (i.e., 45% of the developed area under Stage II). A detailed time bound plan has been
agreed with the Bank and included in the Project Operation Plan (POP) to continue tumover
arrangement in the remaining tertiary systems
26.   Institutional Development Objectives. The project impact on institutional development is
in line with the Govemment's Irrigation Policy of facilitating formation of water user groups
(WUG) in all stages of project development and legalizing them as autonomous entities. Out of
the targeted 778 WUGs, 731 groups have been reported to be formed at the water course level
(28 ha blocks) by Credit closure. Higher order Water User Committees (WUC) at tertiary canal
levels and Water User Coordination Committees (WUCC) at secondary levels have been formed,
and a Water User Central Coordination Committee (WJUCCC) representing beneficiary farmers at
the project's central management level is being established. Water charges that have not been
collected successfully since inception, are now being collected in 50 percent of the tumover areas.
The tumover and legalization of WUAs and WUCC of the developed areas are planned to be
completed by 1997. However, experience with the Stage I and other similar projects in Nepal
showed that the sustainability of water user groups will depend on satisfactory performance of the
system that can be achieved only by proper O&M to assure timely delivery of silt-free water year
round.
27.  HMGN has established the Sunsari Morang I.rigation Development Board (SMIDB)
chaired by the Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources, as an autonomous decision making
committee to oversee and steer project implementation. This arrangement enhanced timely
decisions in many of the project's administrative and budgetary matters at the time of
implementation. SMIDB is still in existence and is implementing SMHP. Assurance had been
obtained from the Govemment to keep a proper O&M set-up after completion of SMHP, as the
current set up including SMIDB will be dissolved after the project. Some technical decisions by
the Department of Irrigation on such matter as siltation issues, logistical support, and appointment
of key personnel were sometime also delayed.
28.  Training of Operation Staff and Farmers. The introduction of a new 'bn-off'rotational
irrigation method needs extensive in-door and in-the-field training for operation staff, agriculture
extension staff( i.e. Junior Technician [JT] and their assistants [JTA]), and farmers. Training has
been provided so far by project consultants since 1991 when the first developed area in Jhumka
tertiary was put into operation. Three farmers from each field outlet (567 outlets x 3 = 1,701
farmers) were provided with two-day intensive training on the rotation irrigation method.
Currently, practical training in the field is being continued for WUG leaders. The coverage of
training at the time of Credit closure was about 30-35%. After the closure of SMIP-II's the water
management consulting services including training was turned over to the consultancy services
under Sunsari Morang Headworks Project (Cr.2430-NEP) in order to complete the coverage.
29.  Project Impact. The project impact assessment is still preliminary as the outcome of SMHP
and O&M capacity of the project agency cannot be judged fully at ICR. The initial impact can
however be evaluated in terms of resolvina two interrelated problems which are seriously



9
affecting the timely and equitable distribution of irrigation water supply: (i) sediment ingress into
the system, which is the primary cause of defunct conveyance of canals; and (ii) lack of
distribution networks in the system. The first problem seems partly resolved by providing a larger
desilting basin although sediment ingress to the system still prevails at a reduced level. The
sediment monitoring results, as mentioned in the Borrower's PCR (see foot notes 9), showed that
as much as 270,000 m3 (in 1992 to 1994) of annual sediment volume still entered into the system
after completion of the desilting basin. The second problem has been partially resolved by
rehabiliting the conveyance canals and introducing a rotational irrigation to the newly developed
distribution system with higher specific discharge. The second problem regarding distribution will
be resolved only after the project management gradually trains the farmers to understand the
deficiency of system design in conveyance (can irrigate only 60% area at one time), and farmers
willingly cooperate in water management activities to get full project impact.
30.   Realization of Benefits by Construction. Because of proper planning during
implementation by adopting a method of blockwise construction scheduling in the project,
benefits were realized earlier. The Bank suggested and the project management and the consultant
agreed to develop the area sequentially block-by-block of secondary canals. In this way of
stagewise completion, the system could supply water to earlier completed sections while
constructing the lower blocks. About 37% of net project areas have been achieved full
development in yields at the time of the ICR, compared to what was expected in Appraisal.
31.   Project benefits derived from provision of supplemental irrigation during kharif and main
irrigation during rabi seasons, from additional agriculture extension activities for improved practices,
and from increased use of inputs. The information made available from recent crop cutting surveys
carried out by the project's M&E division and the consultants preparing the Stage III area feasibility
study showed that at least the full Jhumka pilot area (900 ha) and part of the Sitagunj area have
reached full development yields expected at appraisal. If this trends continues, the current cropping
intensity of 169% can be increased to full development in future as the current dry season intake
capacity limitation is expected to be resolved by SMHP. Estimated agricultural production at ICR
as compared with agricultural production at Appraisal is shown below:
Crops           Stage 1 (9,700 haWin M-Ton          Stage I (16,700 haWin M-Ton     Total Incem
at Appraisal I  at ICR   h Incremental I at Appraisal i  at ICR    lncrmental I  ICR / Appr.
Paddg(all var)   21,372       28712       7,340       35,804      48,146       12,342       19,682
Wheat             3,140        9,372      6,232        3,975       17,234      13,258       19,490
Oil seeds           488         585          97         167         1,202       1,035        1,132
Pulses              546         819         273         546         1,520         974        1,247
Vegetables          784        9,060      8,276        1,336       2,505        1,169        9,445
Potato             784         1,455        671        1,336        5,010       3,674        4,345
Sugarane          2,450        6,825      4,375        4,175       17,535      13,360       17,735
Jute                888         253        -635        1,520         430       -1,090       -1,725
Maize               936         194        -742        1,603          -         -1,603      -2,345
Total                                    25887                                43119        69.006
32.   There were significant increases in paddy, wheat, vegetable and sugarcane production while jute
and maize production declined from SAR levels. The area under improved paddy has gone up
considerably to 75% (compared to 40% estimates in the SAR). The diversification of winter
vegetables such as cauliflower, cabbage, potato is increasingly apparent in areas near main roads and
markets. The speed with which the developed areas can be inigated equitably requires further
cooperation of farmers in the development of field channels by them (currently 50% are developed)



10
and completion of new headworks. The effect of irrigation with and without field channels on equity
of water distribution is hard to quantify. But the survey conducted by the Stage III consultants
revealed that the losses are reduced and thereby area of satisfactory irrigation can be increased in the
order of 20-25% through proper water courses and field channels. If new headworks functions
satisfactorily, it will also ensure supplies of full discharge of comparatively silt free water year round.
33.   Economic Rate of Return. The economic rate of return (ERR) of the project has been calculated
for the SMIP-Stage II area as a stand alone project with prorata share of SMHP investment, and as a
combined SMIP Stage I and Stage II with total SMHP investment8 with and without sunk costs for
SMIP-Stage I. On the benefit side, except for the incremental agricultural benefits that are estirnated
based on the present achievements (cropping intensity 169%) and projected as in SAR (cropping
intensity 184% in 1998/99), other secondary benefits that will result from SMIHP, such as, an increased
discharge from 45.3 m3/sec to 60 m3/sec, and generation of hydropower are not included as it was too
early to assess. The benefit and cost streams used in the analysis are detailed in Appendix 2 The ERR
for Stage It as re-estimated is shown between 11% to 19% for different cases at ICR compared to
13% to 21% estimated at Appraisal for Stage I & II (with and without investment of Stage 1). The
ERR results are summarized below:
(a) SMIP Stage II project with prorata SMIHP investment (base case): 16%
(b) Same case with benefit decreased by 20%                          14%
(c) Same case with benefit decreased by 30%                          11%
(d) SMIP Stage I, Stage II, and full SMHP combined investment        13%
(e) SMIP Stage I, Stage II, SMHP, with Stage I as sunk costs         19%
34.   The results are lower but are comparable to the Appraisal estimate except that the Appraisal
estimate did not cover the full extent of SMHP investment as it was not the adopted solution at
Appraisal. The calculations are, however, speculative and partial because the new intake is still under
construction and it is premature to determine its actual costs as well as its impact. However, the ERR
of combined Stage I, Stage II and SMHP (total costs) at Appraisal of SMHP in 1992 was estimated at
15%. The ERR values vary in between 13% to 19% depending upon how Stage I costs and benefits
prior to 1992 are accounted. Also the calculations are based on information of benefit buildup and
incremental net value of production, and therefore it can have a considerable effect on the recalculated
ERR.
35.   The results under (b) and (c) correspond to cases where the present benefit build up stagnated
at the current level. The extent of full development is still unknown as the current dry season irrigation
supply is limited to 30- 40% of the full supply discharge due to acute intake problems, which is
expected to be rnitigated by the new intake structure now under construction.
36.   Farm Income and Employment. Farm income has been analyzed for a typical small farm of 1.4
ha (65% of holdings and 35% of area) and a medium-sized farm of 3.9 ha.(25% of holdings 200/o of
area) at project start-up (1987/88) and at the projected full development (1998/99). Typical farm
8 ERR analyses include the additional costs for on-going SMHP since the benefits in SMIP- I and SMIP- II projects are questionable without
realization of SMHP. However, the actual costs of the new headworks project are difficult to estimate at the ICR period, and the benefit would
extend beyond Stages I and II. Moreover, the ERR for the combined project has taken into account the flIl amount of sunk costa for SMIP-I
project and the expenditure incurred for Stage I improvement in Stage 11 which was about 2 % of the tol project costs. For detiled
assumptions used in ERR analyses, please refer to Annendix 2 of of the report..



I1
budgets are given in Appendix 2 and the resulting incremental farm incomes with the project are shown
below:
Fanm              Pre-project (NRs)          Ful development(NRs)     Percent improved
SAR Estimate    ICR findings    SAR Estimate    ICR findines   SAR  ICR
Small(1.4ha)       8,675         16,309        23,156         40,282      167     247
Medium (3.9 ha)    20,643         42,897        49,444         109,243     140     255
(Note: SAR pre-project values are in 1987/88 prices, SAR fuU development values m 1990/95 prices but ICR values are m cwstant
1994/95 financial prices)
It is also estimated that incremental employment due to civil work activities of the project was 2.5
million mandays during construction, and 0.6 million mandays during the O&M period. Incremental
farm employment from agriculture was estimated at 0.8 million mandays per year at the full
development stage against the appraisal estimate of 1.0 million mandays during construction, and 0.5
million mandays for the farm employment from agriculture, respectively. No estimate was given for
the O&M period.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
37. Factors Not Generally Subject To Government Control. The implementation of the project
was delayed at the beginning by a series of civil disturbances which were beyond the control of
the Borrower. There were nation-wide fuel shortages between March 1989 and May 1990 (the
second year of project) when the Indo-Nepal border was closed due to a trade and transit impasse
with India, followed by civil unrest and democratization demonstrations in 1991. In spite of all
these disturbances, the construction was substantially completed as scheduled by May 31, 1994,
due to concerted efforts of project staff, the consultants, and the civil works contractor.
38. Factors Generally Subject to Government/ Implementing Agency Controls. There was a
very prolonged delay for more than a decade in the resolution of the sediment issues by the
Borrower which led to unsuccessful outcomes in Stage I project. Although further investment
for the Stage II project was processed expeditiously, doubts on the technical solution made the
project less important, and therefore provided with inadequate budget funding in early years,
which had slowed down the implementation of desilting facilities and remodeling of the Stage I
area distribution system. One of the reasons that delayed the resolution of the sediment issues
was due to different options rendered by the technical study groups in 1980-81, the opinion of
which was changed again after a June flood in 1980 (Tamu landslide) which brought a change in
the river flow pattern. No further opinion was sought from capable body like POE in the case of
Stage I project. These factors affected the project from achieving the completed schemes and
realizing benefits at a quicker pace.
39.   Since opening of the SMIS in 1974-75, it was a known fact that heavy suspended
sediments ingress into the newly built system was severe that any investment to rehabilitate and
modernize deficient irrigation networks would not be viable unless the sediment problems were
resolved. The variants of providing an upstream settling basin and clearing deposited sediments
by dredgers were suggested as early as in late 1970s when Stage I was appraised. The Borrower
hesitated on account of the additional investment requirement and level of technical skill necessary
to maintain dredgers. The Bank also agreed with the Borrower on that line and both agreed that
the project adopted a less expensive variant involving a non-mechanical hydraulic flushing



12
solution in Stage I without exploring the details to get satisfactory solution. The project
implementation was very slow in early years, and was rated "unsatisfactory" due to unresolved
sediment issues which plagued the project since inception.
40.   Project implementation was also affected by frequent turnover of key management staff
(project manager and senior divisional engineers) under the Borrower's transfer regulation. There
were some delays in establishing a Monitoring and Evaluation Division, in appointing Farmers'
Association Organizers, and in establishing linkages between the project and the district
agriculture office in the initial years of the project.
41. Although SAR provided for full implementation of drainage canals in the system, the project
could not meet the design requirements of the SAR in Sitagunj Distributory (8,400 ha) in the Stage II
area, due to farmers' resistance to land acquisition during implementation. This stemmed from the
absence of capable farmer organization units during early project years to discuss with the farmers and
to make them understand the benefits of having proper drainage. After two rainy seasons, farmers
experienced and realized the negative impact of not having proper tertiary drains (only 47% were
completed in Sitagunj) and asked that drains be installed when the Credit was due to close. On the
other hand, the benefits of drainage were understood by the adjacent Ramgunj Distributory farmers,
who cooperated in completing 97% of the designed drainage in their areas.
42. Actual Project Cost. Total project costs, including physical and price contingencies, were
estimated at US$ 49.9 million (NRs 1,221.8 million) in the SAR. An IDA Credit of US$ 40.0
million equivalent (SDR 31.2 million) was to finance all the foreign exchange costs (US$ 36.6
million equivalent), and about 35% of local costs of (US$ 3.4 million equivalent). The actual cost
ofthe project is estimated to be about US$ 45.30 million or 91% ofthe SAR estimate. The exchange
rates between Nepalese Rupees and US dollars in the course of implementation differed significantly
from appraisal estimate. The actual costs of the project in NRs were 1,384.53 million or about 113.3
% of the appraisal estimate of NRs 1,221.87 million.
43. As shown in Table 8A of Part II, substantial cost overruns were incurred for Land Acquisition by
7500/o, Technical Assistance and Training by 238% and for Incremental Staff Establishment by 407%,
net of contingencies. The main reasons for these cost overruns were: (a) appreciation of the land
value due to irrigation resulting in increased compensation for land acquisition; (b) depreciation of
Nepalese rupee against dollar; and (c) the appointment of design consultants for major alteration of
headwork and intake, which were not fully anticipated in the SAR. The cost overrun in incremental
staff was also due to a change in conceptual design of farmer organization-tumover arrangements for
the developed systems requiring additional training and organizational inputs. There were significant
savings in Equipment and Vehicles. At closing, approximately SDR 28.4 million out of the Credit of
SDR 31.2 million had been disbursed, a disbursement ratio of about 92%, and the unused SDR 2.8
million was canceled.
44. As stated earlier, the investment cost stream used in the economic analysis included a total
estimated investment of US$ 25.0 million (NRs. 1207.32 million equivalent) for SMHP (shown in table
8c, Appendix II) in the years 1992/93 to 1996/97 (projected). The prorated costs of SMHP for the
Stage-II project was taken as 63% in proportion to area ratio of Stage II to Stage I and Stage II
combined areas. This assumption reflected the reality that the sedimentation effect is pronounced only
within Stage I and II areas.



13
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
45.   Project Operation. The project sustainability depends on many factors, such as: (a) success
of the solution to the sediment problem during the monsoon and the water intake problem in the dry
season, both of which inhibit reliable year-round water supply to the system; (b) successful outcome of
the SMHP; (c) proper management of the mechanical and electrical equipment installed under SMIHP;
(d) sufficient O&M funding by the Govermment; and (e) support to, and strengthening of, farmers
organizations to make the O&M staff and farmers gain a better appreciation of water management.
46.   The project diverts water from one of the largest rivers of the world that is located in a
geologically fragile zone. There is always an inherent risk as mentioned in para 16 that the river flow
pattem can change at any moment in future due to sudden unpredictable natural land slides or glacier
outbursts in the upper catchment. However, the selected siting of the new intake under SMHP project
was made by the POE after detailed search for a most stable point in the vicinity based on the last 30
years' aerial photos, and therefore can be assumed stable with a high degree of certainty.
47.   The need for proper transfer of novel technology introduced in SMIHP and management of the
project were acknowledged when SMHP was formulated. Gradual transfer of knowledge through on-
the-job training on the operation of the system's mechanical and electrical equipment was arranged by
allowing expatriate training consultants and local operation crews to work together for two successive
years after installation of equipment. However, there is a possibility that, due to remoteness of the
headwork site, the trained local operation crews would leave the job at any time. Therefore more
teams should be hired and trained at the time. The project currently deployed three dredger operation
crew teams, and the project management is considering to introduce a bonus system to the dredger
crews based on output volume of desilted sediments. Enough spares for the electrical and mechanical
equipment for five years use were procured under SM4HP.
48.   Budget for O&M. The current level of O&M funding is inadequate. The previous seven year
average was NRs 355/ha of which more than 30 % is on salary and overhead. The Project Operation
Plan (POP) prepared by SMIP assumes an annual maintenance budget requirement of NRs 45.23
million in 1995/96 (NRs 769/ha for 58,800 ha of Stage I, II, and II1) decreasing steadily to NRs 30.02
million in 1999/2000 (NRs 51 0/ha) when all canals serving areas less than 1,000 ha are handed over to
water users committees, who would undertake the O&M of these smaller canals.
49.   It is a well known fact that because of low recovery of revenues, the HMGN's capacity to
support O&M is limited. The 1995/96 O&M buget is only 60% of its requirement. But, within the
available scarce resources, the Government should prioritize O&M expenditure. Keys to securing
adequate O&M funding would be the successful collection of water charges, and the government's
motivation to prioritize O&M funding allocations to areas where heavy investments have already taken
place. The current rate of water charges of NRs 200/ha is inadequate and has not been revised in the
last decade. In this regard, SMIHP's DCA (Schedule 4- Implementation Program) has a covenant
stating that the Borrower shall charge and collect, in Stage I and Stage II areas after receiving adequate
supplies of silt free water, a rate sufficient to cover the costs of O&M of the main and distribution
canals. While this covenant will be carefully monitored in supervision of SMHP Credit, the issue of
cost recovery should be addressed at higher level of management as it is related country-wide.
50.   Some improvements in water charge collection have taken place after the establishrnent of
WUGs. There is nevertheless a risk in sustainability of water charges collection once Government's



14
support to WUA's collection activities is withdrawn after project closure. Although, DOI is
empowered to collect water charges, DOI has no motivation or incentive to carry out that duty.
Besides, irrigation rules and regulations in all Nepal's public irrigation systems are not implemented due
to various social and political reasons. Fafmers are never educated to abide by rules and regulations
and never been penalized for offenses committed in using public irrigation utility owned by the public.
It is important that once a satisfactory performance level of SMHP is attained, sanctions for non-
payment of water charges should be instigated and irrigation rules should be enforced by the operating
agency with the help of WUAs.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
51.   Preparation and Appraisal. It was a known fact to the Bank as well as to the Borrower that
heavy sediments ingress into the newly built original system and in rehabilitated Stage I were so
severe that any investment in an attempt to rehabilitate and modernize its deficient irrigation
networks would not be viable unless the sediment problems were resolved. In Stage I, difficulties
and delays encountered in implementation led further reduction and postponement of some major
river and sediment control components. The project also failed mainly due to inability of sediment
control devices built in the system. In Stage II Appraisal, technical recommendation to the
Borrower was mechanical solution using dredgers to reduce the sediment. The Borrower first
declined to accept the solution, and the Bank allowed to make the investment with an agreement
to carryout additional studies on the sediment problems in first two years of the project.
52.   Due to various reasons, the technical solution suggested was not taken seriously in searching
the solutions to both problems. The solution accepted by Appraisal to resolve the acute intake
problem during dry season was incomplete. Although there were some studies and technical
discussions to support the move of the existing intake upstream due to westward migration of the river
course, the Bank failed to follow up the issue seriously, and accepted a 'inaintenance option"at
appraisal which was to use the same intake with an excavated summer channel in front. With a limited
capacity of O&M staff, only one-third of full discharge capacity was possible under this method. Thus
the bulk of summer crops could not be grown, affecting the main economics of project investment.
Only after 1990/9 1, by the advice of POE, the Bank and Borrower agreed to change the intake point
from the existing site to a new site upstream at a more stable point. There were shortcomings in
budget and other difficulties as the project proceeded without resolving all the technical issues initially.
53.   The gated water distribution system under Stage I, which has proven difficult to manage and
unsuitable for Nepalese small farmer communities, was changed in the Stage II design. The old design
was replaced with new design of less sophisticated ungated tertiary system. But the new design
demanded to keep all canals in as good conditions as designed, which may be difficult in Nepal due to
their poor O&M reputation. It also requires different chak sizes and therefore different WUGs in the
case of Stage I. The project was not fully prepared to transform to the original chak of 50 ha to the
new design of 28 ha and concerned farmers were never consulted initially. This made the
implementation slower than necessary.
54.   The Bank Appraisal estimate and costs did not cover full extent of technical solution apparently
required by the system. The supplementary cost was later introduced to the SMIP-II by providing a
new SMHP investments. Due to these shortcomings, the Bank Preparation and Appraisal of the
project was found deficient.



15
55.   Supervision. The Bank missions provided regular, good and helpful supervisions and adopted
a flexible approach to the implementation of project. The Bank advised the Borrower to change the
Stage I area tertiary system in a streamlined manner so that the change would not drastically affect the
distribution system where many WUGs had already been formed. The Bank also provided useful
comments on the construction program of Stage II on a block-by-block basis, which allowed full
irrigation to the completed blocks even during construction. The Bank was supportive and helpful in
the Borrower's adoption of a participatory approach to implementing a big public irrigation system.
Consultation with farmers on the development of water courses in the early years of the project was
not a general practice, but it was later modified and improved. The Bank supervision is more or less
satisfactory.
F. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
56.   Preparation. The Borrower concept and understanding of the problems inherent in the system
at the preparation of the project was unclear and indecisive. It was compounded by many indecisive
options submitted by many agencies. The decision process and mobilization of POE took more than a
decade, which led to delays in resolution of sediment and intake site issues during implementation. The
borrower performance during preparation was uncertain and incomplete and found u
The issue was later resolved by additional studies and POE advice.
57.   Implementation. The project suffered delays due to severe shortages of fuids as the Borrower
put less support to implement the project diligently and efficiently in early years. The main reason of
inadequate support at that time was due to uncertainty in technical solution adopted in the project.
Audit reports were often late, but not enough to warrant suspension of the Credit. The Borrower was
initially slow in appointing Monitoring and Evaluation staff to the project but later the issue was
resolved. However, after the POE's recommendation, the Borrower made significant improvement to
resolve the sediment problem and project implementation. The Borrowees consultant had closely
estimated the cost of the main ICB civil work contract as well as correctly pursued the block by block
construction schedule, which made it possible to irrigate completed portions even during construction.
58.    A detailed Project Completion Report and a Project Operation Plan were prepared by the
implementing agency and made available to the Bank in advance for review and remarks. The POP
was revised, taking into account comments made by the Bank. Although there was a delay at the start,
the Borrower, the consultant and the ICB contractor exerted full effort in implementing the Stage II
project within the stipulated time and financial resources. It is rated satisfactorv.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
59.   The net present value of the irrigation component of different scenarios of the project when
cash flows were discounted at 12% and 10% were all positive. Most of the project objectives were
partially achieved and the remaining are expected to be met. The project works were substantially
completed in time and the disbursement was satisfactory. The real achievement of the project is that
the Government was able to transfer part of O&M of the public irrigation system to beneficianes
which reduces O&M burden on publicfunding, and improves the level of O&M throughfarmers'
sense of ownership. Once the management transfer can be successfully implemented, and benefits
become sustainable, this can be a pilot case for management transfer in public irrigation systems in the
country. The project outcome is therefore rated satisfactory. However, the assumptions are based on
benefits built up following completion of SMH{P works and the on-going management transfer of



16
tertiary canal systems. Events which could change the present achievements are any potential failure of
year round silt-free water supply from the new intake, and lack of Government interest in O&M and
continued support for the management transfer process.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
60.   The Borrower's Project Completion Report9 and Project Operation Plan'" (POP) describe the
present and proposed O&M organization with job descriptions of all assigned staff. The POP assumes
that all tertiary canal systems commanding less than 1,000 ha would be turned over to water users'
associations by 1997. At full operation of SMHP starting in mid 1996, the system will assure a year-
round water supply of designed capacity, which will allow increase in dry season crops as well as
assuring the monsoon supplemental irrigation.
61.   The POP has planned to estimate crop water requirements, timing and quantities of water
needed effectively. A computerized water management model has been established, system delivery
efficiencies at different orders of canals are being measured, and the O&M staff are trained to run the
model effectively by SMHP consultants. A detailed time-bound schedule of management transfer to
beneficiaries is also described in the POP. The POP also provides a series of monitoring parameters
through which the performance of the project can be judged.
62.   Future performance of the project can be evaluated by monitoring the system closely and
regularly. The project should systematically monitor the conveyance and distribution efficiencies with
actual measurements in order to avoid undesirable water disputes at field levels. It is also important for
water users to see that the full supply is being delivered by painting marks to indicate full supply level
(FSL) on all distribution canals and dividing structures. The monitoring system must be efficient and
transparent to the users and the staff so that the actual area irrigated in each season by the project can
be recorded using the established irrigable boundary maps (already handed over to the users'
committees) and the amount of water service charges can be assessed properly.
63.   Systems and computerized data bases have been established at SMIP offices for agricultural
production monitoring, covering both socio-economic and routine crop production surveys. Socio-
economic surveys are required at intervals of three or more years just before and after SHMP operation
and are best assigned to experienced local consultants. As the system is designed with a new rotational
supply, the M&E division should be continued until the full tum over and water management training
program are complete. Regular crop cutting surveys must be done seasonally and the results presented
in a coherent report. Assistance from experienced project consultants may be necessary from time to
time. No constraints on the sustainability of the monitoring should arise because of budget shortfalls.
64.   For successful transition from construction to O&M, HMGN should pay attention to ensure:
(a) turn-over of developed tertiary systems to water users' associations to undertake the furll O&M of
tertiary canal systems; (b) the establishment of DOI organization suitable for O&M for the part of
system that has not been handed over to water users' associations; (c) the provision of adequate annual
budget for full O&M of the developed system for which DOI is responsible; and (d) collection of water
9   Project Completion Report, SMIP-Nippon Koei, December 1994
10  Project Operation Plan, SMIP, January 1995



17
charges regularly now, and revision of the charges to cover full O&M on improved services that are
made available to users in Stage I and II after successful outcome of SMIHP.
65.   The project as of now is designed with a very low specific discharge. Some improvement can
be expected after receiving additional discharge of about 5 m3/sec after the new headworks. Any
further investment in the system should consider the constraint and find out a feasible solution for the
tailenders. The possible options are: (a) if found rational, enlarging (or lined) the conveyance system
appropriately to increase the conveyance capacity, (b) gradually organize farmers to change the
cropping pattem and intensify training in water management, or (c) consider conjunctive use of surface
and groundwater at tailends by promoting private shallow tube well development.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
66.   The main lessons learned from the project are:
(i)   In situations where difficult technical problems prevail, specialists in the technical field should
be used extensively. Technical suggestions provided by concerned specialists should be implemented
before committing heavy investment. No works should be started, unless technical issues are properly
identified and solutions are articulated.
(ii)    Unreliable water supply for any reason destroys farmer confidence in the ability of irrigation
authorities and leads to weak co( peration in construction and O&M works.
(iii)   Participation of beneficiaries in the design, construction and implementation, and O&M is very
important as early as possible, especially in large public irrigation system, where available water
resources have to be shared among many beneficiaries in an organized and timely manner.
(iv)   Training farmers to understand the design of the water system and its performance is necessary
for large public irrigation systems where they have to share according to agreed time and quantity. The
success of operation and sustainability of infrastructure depend not only on physical quality of the
structures but also on beneficiaries' understanding, contribution and commitment.
(v)    The design adopted for a large public irrigation systems must be flexible, simple and socially
acceptable by small farmers and their communities. Social acceptability should be tested before
committing heavy investment.
(vi)   Service charges to cover full O&M costs of public utilities after improvement must be imposed
and this should be considered as a country-wide issue in any investment project.
(vii)  Public and government awareness of proper utilization of natural resources must be instigated
through various means of investment lending.



18
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives        Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                       L            9           l            [<
Sector policies                                                             K] ET  n
Financial objectives                             E 7                        K]
Institutional development           K                            ]          K E
Physical objectives                 K]                        [Z            K 
Poverty reduction                               E                ]          K ]
Gender issues                                                                7 [   K   [
Other social objectives             K]                        K             K]-
Environmental objectives            K]           K            K]7
Public sector management              ]          K                          K]I
Private sector development            ]          EI                         K ]
Other (natural resources management)                        7 [          K            [
B. Proiect sustainability                       Unlikelv    Uncertain
Hi,gh~l
C. Bank performance              satisfactorv   Satisfactorv   Deficient
Identification                    5           23           [3
Preparation assistance            K]          K]
Appraisal                                                  E7 K]
Supervision                        ]          E]            K



19
Table 1 (continued): Summary of Assessments
Hi&eh~l
D. Borrower performance           satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation Ff
Implementation
Covenant compliance                                       F   
Operation (if applicable)
Hiehly                                     Highlv
E. Assessment of outcome        satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactor   unsatisfactorv
Note:  The proiect sustainabilitv is rated "uncertain" as it hinges upon many factors. These are: (i) sufficient support
for O&M funding and institutional strengthening, (ii) successful operation and maintenance of the new headworks,
dredgers, and hydroelectro mechanical equipment installed, and (iii) farmers' understanding and co-operation to the
system design introduced under the project. These factors in turn depend on outcome of the on-going New Headworks
Project and its ability to control sediment and mitigate actuate intake problems, which are still to be assessed awaiting
completion of SMHP.
The project identification, awpraisal and reparation are rated "deficient" due to incomplete technical solutions
and costs adopted at the inception of the project, which was later rectified by a follow-up new headworks project.
The Credit covenant pertaining to most of the important points, like, the study on sediment and intake
problems, water charges collection was complied after some years delay or deferred. No satisfactory water charges
collection has yet been realised awaiting SMHP completion, and therefore covenant compliance is also rated "deficient".
However, the physical imnlementation of the project on the whole was completed timely with satisfactory
disbursement and within the allocated financial resources. All scenarios of ERR calculations resulted NPV of the project
positive at the OCC of the country. There was an indication that most of the development objectives in the Stage II
project after completion of SMHP is expected to achieve satisfactory results. Therefore, the assessment of the outcome is
rated "satisfactory" .



20
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                 Purpose              Year of approval     Status
Preceding operations
1. Birganj Irrigation Project          Complete & upgrade irrigation     1973        Completed in
(Narayani Zone)  Cr. 373-NEP         & drainage for 16,300 ha of the               1981. PPAR
Narayani irrigat. System and to              no.4267 1982
provide GW irrigat. to 2,700 ha
north of the system
2. First Rural Development Project     To improve small-scale            1976        Completed in
Cr. 617-NEP                           irrigation schemes in the hills              December
and develop a high lift scheme               1983
on about 1900 ha in Nuwakot
3.Bhairawa-Lumbini GW I Project        To provide 64 deep tubewell        1976       Completed
Cr. 654-NEP                           systems serving 7,600 ha                     March 1983
PPAR 1984
4. Narayani Zone Irrigation Development    Complete & upgrade irrigation  1978       Completed in
Stage II Project                       & drainage for 12,800 ha of the              March 1987
Cr. 856-NEP                           Narayani Irrigation System and
to provide GW irrigation to 800
ha north of the system
5.Sunsari Morang Irrigation I Project  To complete and upgrade the       1978        Completed in
Cr.812-NEP                            first 12,000 ha of the Sunsari               June 1987
Morang Irrigation System
6.. Second Rural Development Project   To improve small scale irrigat-    1979       Completed in
Cr. 939-NEP                           ion schemes in Mahakali Zone                 1987
7.Mahakali Irrigation Project Stage I  To rehabilitate and upgrade        1981       Completed
Cr. 1055-NEP                          existing irrigation system for               December
3,400 ha and extend 3,200 ha                 1988
8.Bhairawa-Lumbini GW Irrigation Stage II  To complete unfinished Stage I  1983      Completed in
Cr. 1316-NEP                          well and construction of new                 October 1990
wells for another 7,000 ha
9.Narayani Irrigation III Project      To complete and upgrade            1986       Completed in
Cr. 1715-NEP                          another 8700 ha of Naravani                  June 1995
Irrigation System
10.Third Rural Development Project     Construction of 28 small           1986       Completed in
Cr. 1727-NEP                          irrigation schemes, Rehab. 18                August 1994
schemes in Rasuwa & Nuwakot
Following operations
1. Irrigation Subsector Project        To finance farmers managed
irrigation schemes in hill and
terai and management transfer
of public irrigation schemes



21
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project process                Date planned              Date actual
latest estimate
Preparation                                                                       June 1985
Appraisal                                             November 1986        November-December 1986
Negotiations                                            April 1987            April 14-17, 1987
oard presentation                                     May 26, 1987             June 2, 1987
Signing                                                                       November 20, 1987
Effectiveness                                                                  3 February 1988
Mid-term review (if applicable)11
Complementary New Headworks Project Appraisal                                  September 1991
Project completion                                  September 30, 1994          May 31, 1994
,oan closing                                         March 31, 1995            March 31, 1995
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY88    FY89  I FY90    FY91    FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95
Appraisal estimate  4,600    7,800    12,800   20,400   30,300  35,800  39,100  40,000
Actual             2,803    4,487    7,209    11,610    19,707  27,352  37,566  39,609
Actual as % of      60.9     57.5      56.3     56.9      65.0    76.4    96.1    99.0
estimate
Date of final     4/26/88  5/30/89  2/15/90  5/10/91   6/10/92  6/04/93  6/30/94  7/31/95
disbursement"2
A complementary Credit of SDR 19.0 million for the new Headworks Project (SMHP) was approved after the detailed
review of the project by an IDA mid-term review mission and Panel of Expert in mid 1990.
12 Final date of disbursement in each Fiscal Year



Table 5-Key Performance Indicators                 22                        As of March 1t95
Work Items                            Units    B.O.Q. Quantity  Revised Quantity     Work Progrem   % of completion
I    CMC Improvement
1. Desilting Work                     m^3            828,500        1,298,700           1.298,700        100
2. Rehabilitation of Existing Structure
(a) Major Structures                Nos                 68              64                   64        100
(b) Drainage Chutes                 Nos                  5              86                   86        100
3. Construction of New Structures
(a) Major Structures                Nos                  8              31                   31        100
(b) Drainage Chutes                 Nos                  0               6                    6        100
Average of CMC Improvement                                                                               100
11   Jhumka Pilot Area (891 ha)
1. Irrigation Canal Earthwork
(I) Sub-secondary Canal (SSJ)        uI              5,018           3,789                3,789        100
(2) Tertiary Canal                   m               6.213            6,237               6,237        100
(3) Watercourse                      usI            39.981          40.632               39,048       96.10
2. Drainage Canal Earthwork
(I) Sub-secondary drain              in              4.931           3.538                2,475       69.95
(2) Tertiary Drain                   in              7,931           6.588                5,148       78.14
(3) Collector Drain                  us             20,187          25,284               11,570       45.76
3. Structure Works
(I) Irrigation Canal Structure
(a) Strucwres                      Nos               235              162                 160       98.77
(b) Field Outlets (FOs)            Nos               246             247                  247       100.00
(2) Drainage Structure
(a) Structures                     Nos                79              55                   52       94.55
(b) Junction structures            Nos                27               4                    4       100.00
Average Jhumka l&D                                                                                      88.33
Ill  Sitaeunj Area (8,388 hal
1. Irrigation Canal Earthwork
(I) Secondary Canal                  m              14,340           14,340              14.340       100.00
(I) Sub-secondary Canal              m              27,152          26,030               26,030       100.00
(2) Tertiary Canal                   m              85,145          85,533               85,533       100.00
(3) Watercourse                      In            340,275         336,126              334,452       99.50
2. Drainage Canal Earthwork
(I) Main drain                       m                   0          24,900               23,540       94.54
(2) Secondary drain                 nu              29,778          32,865               30,358       92.37
(3) Sub-secondary drain              m               4.620           6,197                6,148       99.21
(4) Tertiary Drain                   m              37,745          24,549               11,350       46.23
(5) Collector Drain                  in            177,500           38,720              32,355       83.56
3. Structure Works
(I) Irrigation Canal Structure
(a) Structures                     Nos              1,190           1,142               1,132       99.12
(b) Field Outlets (FOs)            Nos             2,126            2,144               2,144       100.00
(2) Drainage Structure
(a) Structures                     Nos               423             375                  367       97.87
(b) Junction structures            Nos               211              27                   25       92.59
Average Sit2guni                                                                                        92.69
IV   Rarguni Area (7,271 ha)
1. Irrigation Canal Earthwork
(I)SecondaryCanal                    RI             11,555           11,631              11,632       100.01
(I) Sub-secondary Canal              in             24.685          21,851               21,851       100.00
(2) Tertiary Canal                   m              74,701          78.676               78,676       100.00
(3) Watercourse                      m             324,728         318.661              312,712       98.13
2. Drainage Canal Earthwork
(I) Secondary drain                  m              31.906          32,481               32,481       100.00
(2) Sub-seconidary drain             m                 107               0                    0
(3) Tertiary Drain                   m              50,446          48,933               47,233       96.53
(4) Collector Drain                  in            172,383           89,290              81,184       90.92
3. Structure Works
(I) Irrigation Canal Structure
(a) Structures                     Nos              1,191           1,307               1,274       97.48
(b) Field Outlets (FOs)            Nos              1,833           1,960               1,919       97.91
(2) Drainage Structure
(a) Structures                     Nos               551             513                  425       82.85
(b) Junction structures            Nos               158             211                  150       71.09
Average Rumganj Dy.                                                                                     94.08
Averave % completion                      92.90



23
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I. Key operating indicators in SAR     Estimated in SAR*         ICR Estimate at Full Development'3
1. Area irrigated                 26,450 ha                    26,450 ha
2. Increased food grain production'4   39,980 ton/yr           62,346 t/yr
3. Increased oilseed              2,470 ton/yr                  1,884 t/yr
4. Increased sugarcane            2,400 t/yr                    15,920/yr
5. Directly benefiting farm families    13,560                  15,560 (at 1.7ha/farm)"5
. Generated farm employment      3,100 man-years/year         3,330 person-years/yr (at 240 days/yr)16
7. Value added to local economy   NRs225 million/year          NRs752 million/yr
HI. Additional indicators for future      Revised targets
operation (if applicable)
1. Area assessed for water charges    26,450 ha                  (At ICR 4,500 ha has been assessed)
2. Amount of water charges assessed  Full cost of O&M           Recovery represents about 25% of
3. Amount of water chargescollected   100%                     targeted.
* For SAR Estimate see page 47 of SAR
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study            at appraisal/redefined            Status               Impact of study
1. Canal Headworks Improvem- To determine the     Completed in October 1989 which   Provide solution
-ent & schemes for desilting    efficient method for   becomes the basis for POE review    to the sediment
project                      protecting the system   and finalization on sediment and  and intake
against siltation    intake issues leading to SMHP    problems
2. Socio-economic benchmark   To provide benchmark Data collected and reviewed in  Provide data on
survey study              against which        February 1993                     income level
development can be                                    changes
measured
3. O&MPrinciple and Practices To establish physical  Report on water management and    O&M plan will
and budgetary        O&M plan 2/94                    provide basis of
requirements                                          future O&M
4. Water Management Report  To train the farmers   Almost quarterly/seasonal basis.    Irrigation Practice
and staff in rotational  Issued 19 reports from 1990-1994    based on the
supply practice.                                      report findings
and suggestions.
5. Project Operation Plan   Consolidated full    Issued in January 1995 as         Reviewed and
O&M Plan Report for  preparatory requirement for project  sought agreement
the project          completion                       from Borrower
13  Estimated benefits are based on Stage I- 9750 ha and Stage I-16,700 ha in order to be compatible to SAR
14  Food grain includes cereal crops of paddy, wheat and maize
15  No. of farm family in the area has been deternined based on the average operated area of 1.7 halfamily
16  Total working days for farm employment corresponds to full development stage requirement of 799,260 man-day in the
project per year



24
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate         Actual/latest estimate
(US$M)                      (US$M)
Item                 Local    Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign  Total
costs     costs                costs      costs
1. RepairandImprovementstoCMC        0.9       2.8       3.7        0.94      3.15    4.09
2. DesiltingFacilitiesonCMC          0.5       2.1        2.6       0.57       1.93   2.50
Headreach17
3. CompletionofStagellareal&D        6.0       15.1      21.1       4.26      14.26   18.52
4. Improvement of Stage I area I & D  0.7       2.4       3.1       0.24       0.82    1.06
Sub-total Civil Works    8.1       22.4      30.5       6.01      20.16  26.17
5. Buildings                         0.1       0.2        0.3       0.20        -     0.20
6. Vehicles and Equipment"8          0.0       4.8        4.8        0.0       2.98    2.98
7. Incremental O&M
- Staffing                        0.3        -         0.3       1.20        -      1.20
- Maintenance                     1.3       0.5        1.8       4.49        -      4.49
8. Training, M&E, and Studies        0.1       0.3        0.4       0.03       0.12    0.15
9. Technical Assistance Consultancy  0.4       1.9        2.3       0.95       4.54    5.49
Total Baseline Costs                10.3       30.1      40.4       12.88     27.80   40.68
Physical Contingencies              1.3       3.6        4.9       0.28       0.62    0.90
Price Contingencies                 1.7       2.9        4.6       1.51       2.21    3.72
Total Project Costs                 13.3       36.6      49.9       14.67     30.63   45.30
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimate
_______________________               (US$M)                           (US$M)
Local    Foreign     Total       Local       Foreign    Total
costs     costs                  costs        costs
Source
IDA                            3.40     36.60      40.00          12.45     27.16    39.61' 
Domestic contribution         9.90       0.00       9.90          2.22       3.47      5.69
Total                         13.30     36.60      49.90          14-67     30.63    45.30
17 Excludes dredgers and ancillary equipment
I9 Includes dredgers, O&M equipment, Radio communication system & other minor equipment



25
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Appraisal Estimate                        ICR Estimate
Net Present Value at 12% for Stage II only (MNRs)                                                   N.A                                 358.9
Net Present Value at 12% Stages I & 11 (MNRs)                                                       512                                  50.4
Net Present Value at 12% Whole Project (MNRs)                                                       677                                  N.A
Economic Rate of Return of Stage 11 only (%/)                                                       N.A                                   16%
Economic Rate of Return StagesI&lI (%)                                      |                        21                                  13%
Econornic Rate of Return Whole Project (%)                                                           21                                 N.A.
Underlying Assumptions:                                                                                                                                        l
- Project Life                                                                                   30 years                             25 years
- Standard Conversion Factor                                                                        0.90                                 0.90
- Unskilled Labour Value -Shadow wage rate                                                          0.90                                 0.75
- Financial Wage Rate (NRs/day)                                                                     8.67                                 35.0
Note: ICR Estimates include the costs of Sunsari Morang Headworks which were not fully accounted in Appraisal.
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Irigation II Project
Original        Revised
Covenant type         Present       fulfillment     fulfillment             Description of
Agreement        Section                               status           date            date                    covenant                     Comments
DCA                3.01 (a)    Counterpartfunding           C        06/02/87                            Borrowet shall carryoutethe    Shoitfall in alloted budget
Management                                                                efficiency                     can be overcome by direct
payment
3 02        Procurement                  C                                            Procurement to                 Complied.
be as Schedule 3
3.03        Environmental                C                                            Take measures                  Complied.
to rnsumise malana, etc
4.01 (b)    Accounts/audits              C        9 months          12 months         Furnish annual audit reports.   Submitted without delay
after FY          after FY
C       6 months after                      Furmished annual unaudlited    Submitted without delay
FY                                  reports
4.02        Counterpart funding          C        Every Year                          Furnish estimated              Furnushed every year for
March 31                            establishment & O&M needs   IDA revlew
Adopt procedure for assessing
4.03 (a)    FinancialPerforrnancc       CD        Augustl1988       Junel1994         billing and collecting water   Delayed for compliance
charges                       until the issue being
turnover to WUJC
Charge and collect a flat water
4.03 (b)    Financial Performance/      CD        August 1988       July 1994         charges not less than 200/hatyr  Partially complied as
Revenue from benefic-                                                                                    satisfactory supply of water
iary                                                                     after improvement               is not yet realized.
Revenue From                                                              Review performance of
4.03 (c)    Benficiary                  CP        August 1988 and  Auust              collection,adjust every two    Partially complied as It is
(d)                                               every two year    1994              year the rate and procedure to   not fully capable to supply
cover full O&M                 enough silt-free water
Managemnent of
Sch 3    Executing Agency              C                                            Shall employ end retain        Nippon KoeL had been
Sect II                                                                               qualified Consultants          retamed throught



26
Orginal        Revised
Covenant tye         Present       fulfillnent     fulfillnent             Description of
Agreement        Section                              status          date            date                    covenant                    Comnents
Sch4(a)  MEngementof                    C        July 1988         July 1992        Commence operation of radio   ParTially maintain with
(b)                                                                                 system. Maintain Project      telephone. PM post is
Manager Post                  maintained
Sch.4(c)   Managementof                 C        January1988                        FurnishbDAeachyeartrain-    TrainingtoO&MStaffand
Executing Agency                                                        ing progran, overall training    WUG has been caried out
program, syllabus, material   regularly with IDA review
Sch. (d)    Implementation              CD       September 1989   November          Conduct agro-economic         Just taken once after sytem
1994             survey every two year         was supplied with water
Sch (e) (f)  Other                      C       December 1987   December            Constitute WUG as Statutory   WUGs are constituted as
1990             body and cause to construct   statutory bodies by April
Field Channels                1989, FC action underway
Decem. 1990                        Establish WUG in all areas    Complied
receiving irrigation water by
December 1987
Sch 4 (g)   Management                  C                                           Furnish Semi annual progress   Complied I
report
Sch 4 (h)   Management                  C        Sept 1987                          Position all staff, provide   Complied.
(i)                                                                                 adequate resources for agri-
extension
Sch 4(j)    Management                  C       Sept 1990'                          Fumish the result of mid-term   Mid-term review done in
(k)                                                                                 review and evaluate the       FY90/91 and formulated
design concept of RWS         SMHP. RWS reviewed
system                        every 4-6 months,
Sch 4(1)    Monitoring, reporting        C      Novem 1990        Novem             Carry out studies to protect  Complied under SMHP
(m)         and iniplementation                                    1992'            the system against siltation,  which is beig under
report the results, plan and  implementation.
design for desilting facilities
and implement
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                                        Describe and comment on lack of compliance
OP 4.07 Water Resources Management                                    No comprehensive framework for water resources development.
Pricing policy does not achieve full cost recovery yet awaiting
completion of SMIHP.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                                  Revised                                Actual
Stage of
project cycle
Weeks                 US$                 Weeks                US$              Weeks19              US$
reparation to                               n.k.                 n.k.                                                  75.33                 129,967
appraisal
Appraisal                                    n.k.                  n.k.                                                  45.26                  83,277
Negotiations through                         n.k.                  n.k.                                                    7.94                 16,072
oard approval
Supervision                                  n.k.                 n.k.                                                   130.20                234,665
Completion                                   n.k.                 n.k.                                                      7.05                15,759
| TOTAL                                        .265.78                                                                                        479,74020
19    As given in Operation Information System



27
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Peformance rating
Number                      Specialized 1/    Implemen-        Develop-
Stage of            Month/          of         Days in         staff skills       tation          melt         Types of
project cycle          year         persons        field        represented         status        objectives    problems2/
Through appraisal
Appraisal through
Board approval
Supervision
1.                      Sep 86         1            23 3/         I                        nr              nr            nr
2.                      Nov 86          1                          P                       nr              nr             P
3.                      Feb874/
4.                      May 87         2            3              A, W                     2              2              M
5.                      Oct87          2            3              A,1                      2              2              M
6.                      May 88          1           4              E                        2              2             F. M
7.                      Nov 88          1           4              E                        2              2              F
8.                      April 89       2            4              A,1                      2              2              F
9.                      Nov-Dec 89    3             7              1, C, A                  2              3              F
July 90        1                          E                        3               3              F
10.                     Nov 90         1            8             1                         3              3            F, P, T
11.                     Mar91          2            13            I                         3              3            F,P,T
12.                     Sep 91         2            7              I                        3              3            F, P, T
13.                     April 92       1            5             I                        3               3           F, P, T
14.                     June 92        I                          I                        nr              nr             nr
15.                     Nov92          1                          I                        3               3          F,C,P,T
16.                     April 93       4            5             1, A, P                  3               3          F,C,P,T
17.                     Oct93          4                          I,A,P,F                  3               3             F,P
18.                     Mar 94         5                          1, A, P, F               3               3             F, P
19.                     April 95 4/    2            2             1
Completion              Feb 95         2             12           I,E
1/ I = Irrigation Engineer; P = Procurement; A = Agriculturalist; E  Economist; C = Construction; F = Farmers Organization;
P = Associate Programme Officer; W = Water Management Expert.
/ P = Procurement; F = Available Funds; M = Project Management; C = Compliance with Legal Covenants; T = Training.
3/ Includes other projects.
4/ No report on file for this mission.
nr = not reported.
20    SW  for ICR at FY96 estimated at 7.05 SW






28
Nepal
Sunsari Morang Irrigation IH Project (Cr.1814-NEP)
Supervision / Implementation Completion Reporting Mission
March - April 1995
Appendix 1
Aide - Memoire
Introduction
1.    An IDA mission comprising Messrs/Mme. 0. Myint, Y. Choi (SA2AW) together with A.C.
Wee, R.C. Mishra, and C.P. Rauniyar (SA2NE) visited the project from March 31 to April 5, 1995 to
supervise and prepare an implementation completion report (ICR) on the above project. This aide
memoire is based on findings of the mission during the visit and its discussions with the Department of
Irrigation (DOI), staff of the Sunsari Morang Irrigation Development Project (SMIDP), the
Consultants, ICB contractor for the project, farmers and other agencies and individuals concemed with
the project as well as a review of project documentation, other relevant studies and reports. The
Project Completion Report dated December 1994 prepared by the Consultants (Nippon Koei) and
SMIDP, the Project Operation Plan dated January 1995 and the Semi-annual Progress Report (July-
December, 1994) prepared by SMIIDP have been major sources of information. The mission's
preliminary findings were discussed with the Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources (MOWR).
2.    The draft aide memoire was distributed to the Ministry of Finance (MOF), MOWR, DOI, and
the concerned project manager, and discussed at a wrap-up meeting at Department of Irrigation (DOI)
on April 28, 1995. Amendments agreed at the meeting have been duly incorporated. The findings of
the mission is subject to the approval of the Bank management. The mission wishes to thank the
Director-General of the Department of Irrigation (DOI), the Project Manager (PM) and staff of
SMIDP, the Consultants, the other agencies and staff for their cooperation, assistance and hospitality.
The Project
3.    The project, which was the second phase of rehabilitation and command area development
(CAD) of a scheme designed to irrigate another 16,700 ha of Sunsari Morang Irrigation System
(SMIP) having a total potential irrigable area of 68,000 ha, was to be implemented over a seven year
period, incorporating the following main components:
a)    Improvements to Chatra Main Canal (CMC) and its related structures. Works on CMC
would include modifications to the head regulator structure and gates; repair to main
super passage at RD 21 on the canal headreach; rehabilitation of the drainage chutes on
the headreach; provision of replacement gates and repairs to head regulators of
distributory systems from the CMC; completion of three bridges; repairs and
improvements to cross drainage works, syphons, and access structures; replacement of
cross aqueduct structures and other miscellaneous minor works including desilting of
the CMC.



29
b)    Desilting Facility on CMC. Provision of a feasible desilting facility after undertaking
studies during the first two years to evaluate further the feasibility of mechanical
solution (a larger desilting basin with two portable section-cutter dredgers with support
facilities against hydraulic flushing facilities).
c)    Stage I and II areas (28.700 ha). Modification to the irrigation distribution works in the
Stage I area of 9,750 ha to easier operable design, and command area development and
improvement to the irrigation distribution and drainage systems in an additional area of
16,700 ha under CMC.
d)    Buildings. Provision of a guesthouse at Biratnagar, 20 houses for gate operators on the
canal syystem, and buildings for four irigation block headquarters.
e)    Vehicles and Equipment. Provision of additional equipment and plant necessary for
desilting, and other maintenance equipment for the routine maintenance of the canal
and drainage systems including communication equipment.
f)    Technical Support and Training including consultancies for (i) design and supervision
of construction, (ii) project monitoring and evaluation and (iii) studies.
g)    Support of Project Establishment and O&M costs.
4.    The total project cost of US$ 49.9 million was to be financed with the help of an IDA credit of
million (US$ 40.0 million). The project was to increase the command area development of irrigated
area from about 9,750 ha (Stage I) to 26,450 ha (Stage I and II). Incremental agricultural production
was estimated to be 25,500t of paddy, 10,900t of wheat, 2,500t of oilseeds, 4,500t of pulses, 16,300t
of vegetables, 18,400t of potatoes and 2,400t of sugarcane. The economic rate of return was estimated
at 21%.
Mission's Findings
5.    Project Implementation. The implementation of the project was started on September 4,
1988 after selection of ICB contractor for constructing almost all the civil works mentioned under para
3 above. The project construction was assigned to complete by May 31, 1994. Alter immediate
mobilization, the construction works were actually started in January 1989. Although a severe
shortage of diesel fuel and lubricants during the trade and transit disagreement (March 1989 to June
1990) between India and Nepal, the construction works were satisfactorily completed within the
original stipulated period. As initially agreed, the Borrower hired a consulting firm to carry out a
detailed study on viability of introducing mechanical desilting using a larger desilting basin and dredgers
or hydraulic flushing using the available head. The results of the study were reviewed by an
independent panel of experts (POE). The POE endorsed the mechanical desilting method. However,
due to the westward shifting of Koshi River course near the existing intake structure the system is
facing with a new problem of difficulty in intake in dry seasons. Solving siltation problem alone in
monsoon was not sufficient and effective for year round irrigation. The POE recommended that the
project be modified by: (a) moving the intake structure 1,300 m upstream of the existing intake site, (b)
constructing a larger capacity desilting basin, (c) utilizing dredgers to remove silt from the desilting
basin, and (d) constructing a micro-hydro unit in the headreach of the main canal to provide power for



30
the dredger operations. The Borrower acquired a new complementary IDA credit as Sunsari Morang
Headworks Project (SMHP) in the amount of SDR 19 million (US$ 28 million equivalent) in late 1992,
to provide these additional works. The SMfHP Credit was approved in early 1993. The SMIHP is on
track for completion in early 1996.
6.    Completion. The following items of ICB contract works envisaged in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) of SMIP-IH were found completed satisfactorily on the Credit closing date of March 31,
1995. The quality of works and the ICB contractor's performance are also satisfactory.
a)    Improvements to Chatra Main Canal (CMC) and its related structures. Desilting of
about 1.3 million cubic meter of sediments in the main canal system. Rehabilitation of
64 existing structures and construction of 31 new structures. Construction of a new
larger desilting basin.
b)    Desilting Facilitv on CMC. A larger desilting basin of 60 meter wide and 990 meter
long was completed in May 1992. Two cutter-suction dredgers of 14.0 m3/hr capacity
have been procured by SMIP II Credit. The dredgers are being installed recently and
are ready for operation in the 1995 monsoon irrigation season.
c)    Stage I and II areas CAD (25.450 ha). Command area development works under Stage
H area of the project (16,700 ha) have generally been satisfactorily constructed down
to the field outlets of water courses as follows:
*     Jhumkha Pilot Area (891 ha): a total of 6237 m of tertiary canals, 38,622 m of
water courses, 616 nos. of canal related structures, and a total drainage length 18,993
m  with 32 drainage structures were completed;
-     Sitagunj Distributory (8,400 ha): resectioning of 40,370 m of secondary and
sub-secondary canals, construction of 85,533 m of tertiary canals and 334,451 m of
water courses, 56,600 meter of main and secondary drainage canals, 43,600 m of
tertiary and collector drains, 3,660 nos. of canal structures and 384 nos. of drainage
structures;
-     Ramgunj Distributory (7,300 ha): resectioning of 33,482 m of secondary and
sub-secondary canals, construction of 79,433 m of tertiary canals and 322,646 m of
water courses, 36,000 m of main and secondary drains,  127,079 m of tertiary
and collector drains, 3,194 nos. of irrigation and 451 nos. of drainage structures;
Although modifications of the distribution irrigation network in the originally
completed Stage I area (9,750 ha) was envisaged in SAR by changing from the original
gated design of 50 ha water courses (chaks) to non-gated 28 ha water courses, the
work had been deferred at the beginning period of the project due to time and budget
limitation. The modification was finally able to carry out only on 1,000 ha of the area.
So also, the project could not carried out filly as per drainage work requirement
envisaged under the Sitagunj Distributory of Stage I area due to farmers' resistance in
land acquisition at the time of implementation. The mission was informed that now



31
only, after two years of irrigation, the farmers in the area felt the need of drainage and
came up with proposals for drainage.
d)    Buildings under the project were constructed as per the need of the project. The
existing guesthouse in Biratnagar was renovated instead of building a new one. Only 3
gate operators' houses were
built newly under the project and the rest were renovated. Modification of the 3
irrigation block headquarter buildings out of 4 was also completed. Two equipment
storage buildings were additionally constructed.
e)    Vehicles and Equipment. With a view that services of ICB/LCB contractors are used in
most maintenance works, procurement of the heavy equipment under the project was
suspended by the Government. Only a few lots of spares for the existing equipment,
workshop equipment, two passenger jeeps, 2 pick-up jeeps, one station wagon, 12
motorcycles, and 128 bicycles were procured by the project.
f)    Technical Support and Training. The project had used 108.5 mm of expatriate
consultants and 290.5 mm of local consultants hired under an international consulting
firm throughout the design and implementation period. An additional service of 44.1
mm of expatriate consultants and 35.4 mm of local consultants were used for the
design of new headworks.
g)    Support of Project Establishment and O&M were also provided satisfactorily.
7.    The Costs. The SAR estimated total cost of the project is about US$49.9 million (NRs
1,221.8 million using a parity of 1 US$=22.3 NRs). The actual expenditure for SMIP II at the time of
credit closing on March 31, 1995 is estimated to be about US$ 46.03 million or about 92.2% of the
SAR estimate in US dollar, but in Nepalese Rupees it is NRs 1864.1 million (real terms) or about
153% of the SAR estimate due to alterations in the rate of exchange between Nepalese rupee and US
dollar in the course of project implementation (1 US$ = 22.3 NRs in 1987/88 to 49.21 NRs in
1994/95). Approximately SDR 28.4 million from the IDA credit have been disbursed so far. About
SDR 0.6 million can be expected as payments for works and equipment procured under the credit
before March 31, 1995. About SDR 2.0 million (about 6% of the Credit) will be remained unused
which is to be canceled on July 31, 1995. However, it is to be noted that about SDR 1709.01 has been
overdrawn at the end of March 1995 from Category I - Civil Works of the Credit that need to be
adjusted.
The Benefits
8.    The larger desilting basin constructed in mid 1992 under the SMIP-II has proven successful.
About 65-70 percent of the incoming sediment to the system has been trapped in the desilting basin in
early part of monsoon kharif irrigation. However, as there was no continuous unsilting of deposited
sediments from the basin as the case would be with continuous dredger operations, the capacity of the
desilting basin reduces with its trapping efficiency by time. Over 250,000 m3 of deposited sediment
was cleared mechanically in 1993 and in 1994. That was the positive indication of the effectiveness of



32
desilting basin provided. The mission found the two dredgers recently being installed in the basin and
they are ready for operation in the coming kharif irrigation season in June.
9.    Incremental Production and ERR. Project benefits derive from  the provision of
supplementary irrigation during the kharif season and irrigation during the rabi season and from the
encouragement that security of water supply gives farmers to adopt improved practices and increase
use of inputs. The information made available from the recent crop cutting surveys carried out by the
project M&E division and the consultants of the Stage Im area feasibility study showed that at least full
Jhumka pilot area and part of the Sitagunj area have achieved fuli development yields. In terms of total
development, the present achievement represents about 37%  of the project area. Incremental
agricultural production at the ICR was estirnated to be 14,299t of paddy, 17,910t of wheat, 1,035t of
oilseeds, 1,549t of pulses, 7,102t of vegetables, 3,757t of potatoes, 17,441t of sugarcane and 627t of
maize. There is significant increase in paddy, wheat, vegetable and sugarcane production while Jute
production decline from the SAR level. The speed with which the developed project area can be year
round irrigated equitably requires further development of field channels by farmers (currently 500/o are
developed) and completion of the new headworks ensuring the full discharge of comparatively silt free
water year round for effective irrigation. The assumptions made in phasing of benefits will have a
considerable effect on the recalculated ERR Due to the somewhat higher without-project situation and
the slower build-up of benefits relative to costs it can be expected that the ERR will be about 20% at
ICR against 21% at SAR for Stage I and Stage II.
Performance of the Borrower
10.   The Borrower made considerable efforts to implement the project with due diligence and
efficiency but in early part of the implementation stage the project suffered some delays due to severe
shortage of funds and unclear technical solution to the sediment ingress problem. The main reason of
implementation delays in Stage I area was inadequate budget for efficient implementation and the
Borrower's tardiness in selecting technical options. However, after the POE's recommendation the
Borrower had asserted significant effort in decision maldng for improving the system's sediment
problem. Audit reports were often late but not to the stage of credit suspension. The Borrower was
initially slow in appointing Monitoring and Evaluation staff to the project. The Borrower's consultant
had closely estimated the cost of the main ICB civil works contract as well as correctly pursued the
block by block construction planning, which make the project possible to irrigate in the completed
portion even during construction. Although there was a delay at the start, the Borrower, the consultant
and the ICB contractor made full effort to complete the Stage II project within the stipulated time and
in a satisfactory manner. A detailed Project Completion Report and a Project Operation Plan (POP)
were prepared and made available to the mission in advance for the review and remarks. The POP was
revised taking account of comments made by IDA.
Performance of IDA
11.   At the time of implementation of Stage I and appraisal of Stage II project IDA failed to take in
account of the acute intake problem from the Koshi River during summer period due to its westward
migration of river course away from the existing intake site. The change of river course limits the intake
discharge in summer to one-third of its full capacity because of which the bulk of summer crops cannot
be raised affecting the main economics of the project investment. However, it was a wise decision for
IDA to encourage the Borrower to timely study the problem and change the design of an existing



33
intake system with the replacement of a new intake at a more stable upstream point which is being
implemented under the SMHP project. The intake of water from the new intake will be realized in
June 1995. The gated water distribution system designed under Stage I, although technically sound,
has proved to be difficult to manage and it does not suitable for Nepalese small farmer community.
IDA, at the later stage correctly changed the design in a gradual manner that will not drastically change
the distribution network where many water user groups had already been formed. The participatory
approach in designing a big public irrigation system by allowing fanners to take part in the project
development works right from inception allows a public irrigation system to a successful completion.
IDA provided frequent good and helpful supervision and adopted a flexible approach to the
implementation of the project.
Proiect Sustainabilitv
12.   Water availability. Sunsari Morang Irrigation System is facing with a heavy sediment ingress
problem in monsoon period since inception. The monsoon silt problem was exacerbated by the
westward migration of Koshi River thereby creating an acute intake of water in dry season. SMHP
project is aimed to solve both the sediment and intake problems. However, in view of the heavy
sediment concentration in Koshi River in monsoon, the solution provided to the problem needs
continuous dredging in the desilting basin at headworks and generation of hydropower for the dredger
operation. Providing the mechanical and electrical equipment though ensure the year round water
supplies in a sustained manner, it would require a proper level of operation and maintenance by the
Borrower. The headworks project has considered the necessary on-the-job training to the Borrower's
staff for two years. The importance of proper operation and maintenance was recognized when the
project was formulated. There is nevertheless a risk that the sufficient attention to the operation and
enough funds for proper maintenance be given to the infrastructure installed in the system.
13.   At the full operation of SMHP starting in June 1995, the system will supply with an assured
year-round water of designed capacity. The maximum design discharge of the Chatra Main Canal
(CMC) is 45.3 cumecs. But the new intake will have a capacity of supply up to 60.0 cumec at all time
of the year which will allow to increase the significant dry season crops as well as assure the monsoon
supplemental irrigation. It is, however, not necessary that the peak flow be supplied at all times and it is
reasonable for the CMC to be closed from time to time (November and April ) for maintenance and
repair. The mission suggested and DOI agreed that, taking account of the SAR proposed cropping
pattern, the Project Management should study a maximum amount of water that can be delivered in
CMC, estimates of crop water requirements, and the timing and quantities of water required to make
use of the additional discharge effwctively. The mission is pleased to note that a computerized water
management model is established recently under the guidance of SMHP consultants and the project
staff are trained to run the model effectively. The model would predict the actual field irnigation water
requirement close to two weeks ahead of the application. The mission suggested and the DOI agreed
that after satisfactory operation of the new headwoks in the coming kharif season irrigation the project
management will include the need to find a way of establishing a pilot agriculture farm using saving
funds from  SMHP in the suitable area to demonstrate farmers crop diversification including
premonsoon croppings.
14.   Budget for O&M. The Project Operation Plan (POP) prepared by SMIDP assumes an anmual
maintenance budget of NRs 45.23 million in 1995/96 (NRs 769/ha for 58800 ha of Stage I, II, and EII)
reducing steadily to NRs 30.02 million in 1999/2000 (NRs 510/ha) by when it is assumed that all canals



34
serving areas less than 1000 ha would have been handed over to water users committees, who would
pay for O&M of these smaller canals. Therefore, the proposed budget for O&M and repairs in 1995/96
of NRs 48.2 million, which includes preparation of turn over program seems reasonable. There is a risk
if that amount allocated is not available. The mission recommends that O&M resources available be
given priority to the areas in Stage I and II where investment on infrastructure development has been
already made.
15.   Formation of Water Users Groups and Committees. The water management problems
have been significantly reduced by introducing a simple structured irrigaion design for CAD in the
SMIP-II and partly in the SM[P-I. The resulting layout has proven to be acceptable to farmers. The
implementation of CAD in SMIP-I & SMIP-II is consistent with the HMGNs Irrigation Policy of
facilitating water users' participation in all stages of the project implementation. Legal WUGs have
been formed in every developed water course units (mostly about 28-50 ha in size) in the SMIP-I
(9750 ha) and II areas (16,700 ha). 731 out of 778 Water Users Groups (WUG) have been formed
and about 160 have been maintaining tertiary canal system by themselves. To date, turnover of about 9
completed tertiary units (commanding for about 4110 ha) to the respective WUGs has been
successfully complete. 31 Out of 38 Water Users Committees (WUC) have been formed at tertiary
level. Similarly six out of seven higher order Water User Coordination Committee (WUCC) at the
secondary canal level have been formed and a Water User Central Coordination Committee (WUCCC)
to represent beneficiary farmers at the project management level is being established. In the system
where the water charges were never collected successfully in the last three decades since completion
are now being collected on 30 percent of the turned over areas and remitted to the goverrmnent
treasury by WUCs themselves. Turnover and legalization of the WUAs and WUCC are phased out to
be completed by 1997..
16.   Water Management. The structured irrigation adopted in the project is based on the principle
that CMC would be running continuously during the irrigation seasons, supplying fulil water to
secondary canals. Sub-secondary or tertiary canals commanding 1000 ha and less would run either at
full capacity (on) or be closed (off) by turn. When they are running at full capacity, water would
automatically be distributed into water courses (WC) proportionately to the area served. Water
delivered to a WC (which serves about 28 ha in Stage II) would be distributed in rotation to field
outlets serving about 4 ha each. The design requires that, when secondary and tertiary canals are
running, they run at full supply discharge. The water management below the sub secondary is the
responsibility of WUGs. In the last Kharif and Rabi crop seasons, Rotational Water Supply (RWS)
was applied. Though there were some conflicts on turns and time-share, RWS worked in general and
farmers generally satisfied with the equitable supply. They have started recognizing the importance of
RWS and are cooperating in water management gradually. The supply of irrigation water by
constructing field channels, especially in dry season rabi irrigation, has been increasing. At present
about 50 percent of field channels exist in the systern. WUGs of Jhumka area are functioning
satisfactorily in all respects (after 3 years under RWS) while others still have to get momentum. Still a
few cases of farmers, who are not getting sufficient water, complaining to the committee and the
project for improving deficiencies in alignment of water courses. Though farmers have been
extensively consulted in the layout of water courses, there still remain to reinforce walk through
procedure and improvement in the WC alignment, if found defective. In Sitagunj area where farmers
resisted to drainage construction have now felt the need and have asked SMIP to provide remaining
drainage. The mission suggests that the project consider construction of the drainage using O&M or
other surplus funds after seeking the farmners' concurrence on necessary land acquisition.



35
17.   As per design the canal efficiency for CMC is 90%, secondary canals 92%, tertiary canal 92%,
water course 85% and field efficiency 65%. This gives the overall efficiency as of 42%. The project
should systematically monitor the conveyance and distribution efficiencies by actual measurements in
order to avoid undesirable water dispute at the field level. The mission found that there had been 10/o
of the area still not satisfactorily received water. It is also important for water users to see that the full
supply is being delivered. On the majority of dividing structures, it is suggested to paint marks to
indicate full supply level (FSL). The mission considers it important that, if the system is to operate
satisfactorily as designed, FSL should be marked on each dividing structure and, when the canal is
operating, the water level should be maintained at this level.
18.   Monitoring and Evaluation. Systems and computerized data bases have been established at
the SMIP offices for agricultural monitoring, covering both socio-economic and routine crop
production surveys. Socio-economic surveys are required at intervals of three or more years and are
best assigned to experienced local consultants. As the system is designed with a new RWS a
responsible officer specifically appointed for the task, the M&E division, should be continued till the
full TO and water management training program are complete. Regular crop cutting surveys must be
done seasonally and presented the results in a coherent report. Assistance from the experienced project
consultant from time to time may be necessary. No constraints on the Sustainability of the monitoring
should be arose because of budget commitment.
19.   Water management monitoring at present started by measuring the flow entering the CMC and
secondary canals in the Stage II area. This monitoring is now well established and there is no reason to
think that it will not continue. More extensive water management monitoring of flows in CMC,
secondary canals and Tertiary/WC system is recommended both as a record of water delivered to
water users and to assess whether improved operations could be evolved. Records should be kept of
the supply to main secondary and other important canals, with a record of whether FSL has been
maintained and, where practicable, the flow entering the canal. Measurement of the flow leaving from
the Stage II project area downward would provide valuable information for the future development of
the project.
20.   The results of all monitoring should be properly recorded at the Project Manager's office for
reference and actions if required. The PM should draw the attention of SMIDB, DOI, Department of
Agriculture and other agencies to areas where action is needed and act as a catalyst to ensure necessary
action is taken.
Issues at O&M Stage
21.   Next Steps. The project is at an important transition from construction to full operation. For
this transition to be successful, it is important that proper attention is paid to (a) the continued
development of turn over to water users' associations which can undertake the O&M of tertiary canals
and field channels of the system; (b) the establishment of the DOI organization for the O&M of the part
of the system that has not been handed over to water users' associations; (c) the provision of adequate
annual budget for full O&M of the part of the system for which DOI is responsible, and (d) collection
of water charges regularly on improved services that are made available to the users in Stage I and H.
HMGN must ensure that the above are achieved.



36
22.   Staff for O&M  of the Project. Now that the construction of major works by DOI is
substantiLllv complete in SMIP Stage II. The SMIDB has consider the future staffing and how best to
keep the staff necessary for O&M and withdraw the surplus staff It is likely that the SMIDB, which
employs many of the present staff, will after two or three years, be replaced with a board containing
representatives of the WUCCs. Many of the staff who are required for the continued O&M of the
project are worried that they would then loose their jobs. The uncertainty about their future is,
understandably, causing them concern. A decision is needed soon as to the future staffing of the O&M
organization as agreed in POP.
23.   Water Charges. The level of charges for surface water in public irrigation system in Nepal has
been set at Nrs200/ha/year. Water charges collection duty is entrusted to the irrigation project
authority. There is a change in collection system of water charges in SMIP because of its successfiul
WUGs formation. The duty is now resumed in the system by the established WUCs themselves. To
date NRs 190,000 have been collected from the completed turnover areas which had never been the
case in the past eight years. The remaining water charges are being collecting from the other areas. In
the transitional stage before all WUCs can take over their concemed areas from the project, it is still the
duty of SMIDB staff to collect water charges from the remaining developed areas under Stage I and II
project or the project can make use of the established WUCs for that purpose. The mission was
informed by the local staff that there are some cases of unclear ownership which makes the collection
difficult. The mission considers that it is essential, if charges are to be collected efficiently, that (i) for
each season a record is kept of the areas irrigated using the available irrigable boundary map of all users
or groups to whom water is supplied, (ii) an assessment is issued before the end of the main irrigation
season to each user or group, (iii) the charge is collected promptly and (iv) sanctions for non-payment
are instigated and enforced. The project is requested to see the matter carefully.
Lessons Learned
24.   Unreliable water supply for any reason destroys farmer confidence in the ability of the irrigation
authorities and can lead to a lack of cooperation in any development works.
25.   Participation of beneficiary farmers in any development works from the beginning is very
important, especially in large public irrigation system, where the available water resources has to be
shared among many beneficiaries.
26.   Training farmers to understand the system performance is necessary for a large irrigation
system where the farmers have to share the water by time and by quantity. The success of operation
and Sustainability of the infrastructure depend not only on physical soundness of the structures but also
on social organization of the beneficiaries.
27.   The design adopted for a large public irrigation system must be simple and socially acceptable
for small farmer community. Social acceptability should be tested before committing heavy investment.
Summary of Recommendations
28.   The following recommendations of the ICR/Supervision mission have been agreed by HMGN,
DOI, and the project management that:



37
(a)   the sufficient attention to the operation and enough funds be given for proper mnaintenance of
the infrastructure installed in the system and that O&M resources available be given priority to the
areas in Stage I and II where investment on infrastructure development has been already made (para 12
and 14);
(b)   after satisfactory operation of the new headwoks in the coming kharif season irrigation, the
project management will consider the need to find a way of establishing a pilot water management
demonstration farm in consultation with DOAD using saving from SMHP in a suitable area to
demonstrate farmers crop diversification and water management including premonsoon croppings
(para 13);
(c)   the project management consider construction of drainage in Sitaganj area using O&M or other
surplus funds after seeking the farmers' concurrence on necessary land acquisition (para 16);
(d)   proper attention is paid to (i) the continued development of turn over of water course systems
of the system; (ii) establishment of the DOI organization for the O&M of the part of the system that
has not been handed over and monitoring on the handed over part; (iii) the provision of adequate
annual budget for fill O&M of the part of the system for which DOI is responsible, and (iv) collection
of water charges regularly (paras 21 & 23);
(e)   the Borrower's part of ICR will be prepared and sent to IDA not later than end June 1995.



38
Attachment I
Guidance on Government's Contribution to the ICR.
Government's own final evaluation of the project implementation is an important part of an ICR
It is attached, unedited, to the ICR sent to the WB Board. It can be selective in its coverage and should
address issues and lessons learned in project implementation, from the borrower's perspective. Topics
covered can be the same as in the ICR, namely, project design, appraisal, implementation and project
results. At each stage of the project the contribution should comment on both IDA and the
implementing agencies' performances, with the observations, where possible, supported by evidence or
reasoned argument. The ICR of the Government should be made available to IDA within three months
from the Credit closing date of March 1995.
For project design the contribution could address such questions as the appropriateness of the
project's objectives, the size of the project and scope of the investments proposed, aspects of design
leading to easy (or difficult) implementation and the effect on government institutions.
For project appraisal comments should concentrate on any significant changes in the
objectives, size and scope of the project and whether these were appropriate.
Project implementation experience should be divided into an assessment of IDA performance
in supporting and supervising the project and the performance of the implementing agencies.
Project results include an assessment of the direct physical benefits leading to financial and
economic benefits. Since financial and economic re-analysis of the project will be undertaken as part of
the ICR, it is suggested, if HMGN so wishes, that the contribution could most usefully comment on the
effect of the project from the Government's perspective. Such an analysis would be a most useful
contribution to the ICR.
Based on the foregoing sections the contribution should list the main lessons learned from the
implementation experience and arising from the above analysis. WB suggests that if the contribution is
more than ten pages it should include a summary. The latter is recommended for all but the shortest
contributions. The mission will be happy to provide any further elaboration or clarification required
to assist in preparation of the contribution.






39
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT (Cr. 1814-NEP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Appendix 2
Economic Re-evaluation
Incremental Farm Benefits and Costs
1.     The economic analysis of the Stage II project at the ICR period has been tested as a stand-
alone project with prorata costs of an additional investment under Sunsari Morang Headworks
Project (SMHP), and a combined Stage I and Stage II project with all new investments under
SMHP2. Though the costs incurred under the on-going SMHP are still provisional as it is under
construction, it cannot be ignored in the economic analysis. Without the inclusion of SMHP
investment, the viability of previous investments in Stage I and II are brought into question as
seeking effective solution to sediment problems is the main issue for the project's sustainability.
This is because, prior to a major unsilting in 1992/93, the main canal carrying capacity was
reduced from 45.3 m3/sec to 40.6 m3/sec due to siltation. This reduction in the designed
discharge if translated in irrigability is equivalent to losing 5,000-6,000 ha from the system.
2.      On the benefit side however, except for incremental agricultural benefits that would be
obtained through the new SMHP by enabling Stage I and Stage II supplied with an adequate year-
round of water, other benefits such as, additional water from the new intake (original designed
discharge of 45.3 m3/sec will increase to 59.0 m3/sec ), and hydropower generation benefits are
not accounted in the analysis. As these benefits have yet to be realized, a more complete
economic analysis accounting all benefits must await an evaluation of the SMIHP after its
completion in 1997.
3.     Economic analysis of SMIP-II is treated as a self contained project or whether it is
considered to be a time-slice of larger Sunsari Morang Irrigation System, which up to now
includes SMIIP I, SMIP II, and SMHP. The sunk cost of Stage I project (previous investment)
was taken into account in the analysis of the development project as a whole (Stage I, Stage II,
and SMHP). There were some benefits in Stage I area after the SMIP-I investment. But as
mentioned in the Project Performance Audit Report,22 it was assumed very marginal and uncertain
21  The actual costs incurred under SMIHP up to December 1995 and the projected costs for FY 1995/96, and FY1996/97
provided by the project consultants (based on remaining payments to the three ICB contracts) are included in the analysis.
For the prorata costs of SMHP chargeable to Stage II, the area ratio of the Stage II to the total area of Stage I and H, which
equals 63%, is adopted. The analysis implied that total cost under SMiHP is allocated to Stage I and E1 only, although the
benefit is well beyond to the two stages.
22   The Project Performance Audit Report of SMIP I (para 33 of Report No. 8670, May 29, 1990) prepared by OED stated
that "...a 1987 socio-economic survey conducted after improvements had been affected, indicates that incremental yields
and cropping intensities of principal crops--local and improved (HYV) paddy, and wheat--have been considerably less
than estimated in the SAR, and the yield and cropping intensity increases in a control area adjacent to the Stage I area
(which represents a "without project" situation), are little different from those obtained within the project improved area,
partly reflecting widespread use in the recent years of private tubewells, which have the important advantage of providing
sediment-free water".



40
whether it was different from "without project condition" although cropping intensity had risen
from 118% (at Appraisal in 1978) to 152% by 1987.
4.    The main reason is the technical solution adopted for the sediment problem in Stage I was
not effective to resolve the problems. Therefore, in this analysis only marginal benefit (with
stagnated 1% built-up rate from 1987 to 1992) was adopted as outcome of the sunk investment
under Stage-I Project. However, after partial completion of desilting facilities under SMIP-II in
1991/92, the observed cropping intensity increased from 152% and reached to 162% in 1994.
This indicates that with some further improvement of the distribution system in Stage I, it can
achieve similar growth like in Stage II.
5.    Farm benefits and costs were calculated on the basis of crop budgets for Stage II, Without
Project (1987/88), Table 1, and compared to the With Project situation at full development
(1998/99), Table 2. These crop budgets were based on inputs and outputs estimated for 1987/88
(from the Staff Appraisal Report) and for 1998/99, Table 3.
6.    Financial and economic prices are set forth in Table 4. Prices of locally-traded inputs and
outputs are based on field survey taken at the time of ICR and recorded information available
from SMIP-Ill feasibility study team, while prices for traded commodities are derived as shown in
Table 5.
7.    Cropping intensity is expected to increase from 152% in Stage I (after completion in
1986/87) and 129% in Stage II (at Appraisal) to 184% at full development. Total area under each
crop is calculated according to the cropping patterns observed in the crop cut surveys and
findings of SMIP-HI consultants during their feasibility studies in the project area, and are given
in Table 6. The intermediate stage (build-up stage) cropping patterns and intensities at the time
of ICR net returns per ha is derived from Tables 1 and 2 respectively.
8.    Flow of benefits in Stage II and Stage I area is given in Table 7A. This is based on: (a)
information on benefit buildup, Table 7B, calculating benefits according to the sum of percentage
area coming under the "Improved" situation vis-a-vis the remaining area under the "Traditional"
production scenario, and (b) Incremental Net Value of Crop Production in Stage I and Stage II
area shown under Table 7C and Table 7D. Incremental net value of crop production in Stage I
area, Table 7C was developed as a comparison. Tables 7C and 7D compare, in economic terms,
the value of production in the Without Project situation (1987/88) and With Project situation at
full development (1998/99).
Project Investment and Operating and Replacement Costs
9.    Yearwise investment costs are given in Table 8a for the Stage II, Table Sb for the
Stage I and Table 8C for the SMHP. Costs are separated by foreign exchange and local cost
components for all cost categories. Current costs (1978/88 to 1994/95) and future costs
(1995/96 to 1996/97) were converted into 1994/95 constant prices using deflators derived from
National Accounts statistics (for local costs), and MUV index for foreign costs, Table 9.
10.   Annual requirement for full O&M and Replacement Costs were estimated for 1995/96 to
2006/07 at constant 1994/95 prices in Table 10a which was also mentioned in the agreed Project



41
Operational Plan (POP). Table 10b is the similar O&M costs for the past period 1988/89 to
1994/95 in economic NRs. Foreign exchange and local cost components were estimated and
converted at economic prices into economic values. The O&M&R excluded the O&M costs for
Stage Im area proportionately but included the O&M costs for the new SMHP as well as
Replacement Costs of dredgers after 10 years of operation.
11.   Details on Benefit and Cost Streams were compiled for a 25- 30 year period for the ERR
calculations as shown in Table 11 a for the Stage II area as a stand alone project with prorata
SMHP costs, and Table l1b for the combined Stage I and Stage II project including additional
investment under SMIHP. The economic internal rate of return (ERR) for the different scenarios
are as shown below:
(a)    Stage II as stand alone with prorata SMHP (base case), 25 yrs       = 16%
(b)    Same (a) with benefit build-up decreased by 20%                     = 14%
(c)    Same (a) with benefit built-up decreased by 30%                     = 11%
(d)    Combined Stage I and Stage II including total SMHP costs
(30 year period from Stage I period)                                = 13%
(e)    If stage I considered as sunk costs (SMIPI, SMIP-II and SMHP)       = 19%
Estimate of LRR for the whole SMIP including undeveloped SMI-III areas was not made in this
ICR.23 due to uncertainty in effectiveness of SMIHP on Stage III.
Changes in Farm Income
12.   Changes were calculated to the income of the typical small farm (1.4 ha) and medium-
sized farm (3.9 ha), at project start-up (1987/88) and at full development (1998/99). These are
given in Tables 12a & 12b and Tables 13a & 13b, with information derived from Tables 14a,
14b, 14c, and 14d.
13.   The results show that farm incomes for these typical farms changed as follows:
PreProject       At full development        % change (Improvement)
Small farm          Rs 16,309            Rs. 40,282                 247%
Medium farm         Rs 42,897            Rs. 109,243                255%
14.   Incremental direct employment due to construction under the project was estimated in
Table 15 at a total of 2.5 million mandays during the construction period (1987/88 to 1994/95)
and 0.6 million mandays during the post-construction period. Incremental employment from
agriculture was estimated at 0.8 million mandays per year at full development. Taken over the
20,700 households and 113,000 residents in the township of the Stage II area (1991 population
23  In MOP Report No. P-5696-NEP of SMHIP dated October 15, 1992, similar economic analysis of Stage I, Stage II and
SMHP combined showed IRR around 15% if all benefits expected under SMHP were accounted. If Stage I costs are
treated as sunk costs, IRR increased to 22%. Similar economic analyses for whole project (SMIP L SMIP II, SMHP and
the remaining SMIP IH areas) in later analyses by the consultatnting team preparaing SMIP-m Feasibility Study (Ref.
para 7.2.4 of Main Report of Sunsari Morang Irrigation m Detailed Feasibility Study and Design - June 1995) indicated
ERRof 14.9%.



42
census, CBS), and the estimated available work force per family (240 nandays per year for half of
the population), employment from agricultural activities in the project area would have been 13.5
million mandays per year without the project.
15.  Incremental direct employment due to construction of SMIP II (2.5 million mandays)
would have increased overall employment in the area by 18%, while operation and maintenance
during the post-construction period would generate an additional 4.4% increased employment per
year. Employment from agricultural activities in the project area alone would increase by 6%
from pre-project to the "With project, full development" situation. With the ancillary growth and
other downstream activities, the project has definitely increased economic activity in the project
area.



43
NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Irrigation II Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2 - Economic Re-evaluation
TABLE 1                                                                   Crop Budget, Stage II
(Without Project, 1987/88)
NRathi       Eoon. 1994/95 Prio.
Production Pasmetrs                                                                                Crp
Paddy         Paddy          Maze   What  Oilleeds   Pulse          lute    Potato   Tomato   Brinjl   Sugarcane   Cumm    Cabbge
(OAin)   l   (Eady)   kb                                (LeW)                                                         Momig
1. Gross Retum (NRa/h)                       28410          20938          16004    18676    8000      7595      16147.1  33360    0          14040    36250        0         0
A. Main Product (mtha)                        2.4            1.6           1.6       1.4      0.5      0.7       1.3      8         0         8         25          0         0
Price(NRstt)               11050          12310         9810      13110    16000    10850      12290    4170      3000      1755      1450        16537    2650
Value (NRs)                26520          19696          15696    18354   8000      7595       15977   33360    0           14040    36250        0         0
B. By-product (nitt4a)                       3.5            2.3            2.2       1.4     0         0         2.1      0         0         0         0           0         0
Price (NRs/t)              540            540            140      230      0        0         81        0        0         0         0           0         0
Value (NRs)               190            1242           308      322      0        0          170.1    0         0        0          0           0         0
2. Production Cost (NRa/a)                   6127           6049           3535     5293.4   2503.6   3081       6647      12744    0         5677      11802       0         0
A. nputCost                                   1090           1720          938      2090      94.8     995        1532     8030     0         2073      5742        0         0
i) Seed
a)Seedrate(Kgiha)               60             100            15       100      6        50         8        800       0        1         2500        0         0
Price(NRs/ha2              8.5            9.7            13.2      10.5     15.8     19.9      31.5      77       720       450       0.8         16.5      342
Value(NRs)                 510            970            190      1050     94.8     995        252      6160      0         450       2000        0         0
ii) FertiLzer Cost                           540            720           720       1040     0        0          1260     1870     0         1623      3742        0         0
a) N (Kg )                   20             0              0        20       0        0          20       20        0         35        65          0         0
Price(NRstkg)               27             27            27       27        27       27        27        27       27        27        27          27        27
Value (NRs)                540            0              0        540      0        0          540      540       0         945       1755       0          0
b) P (Kgfg)                  0              0             0         20       0        0         0         10       0         20        40          0         0
Pric (NR5skg)               25             25            25       25        25       25        25        25       25        25        25          25        25
Value (NRs)                0              0              0        500      t        0          0        250       0         500       1000        0         0
c)K (Kgha)                   0              0             0         0        0        0         0         0         0        10         15         0         0
Price (NRs/kg)              17.8           17.8          17.8      17.8     17.8     17.8      17.8      17.8     17.8      17.8      17.8        17.8      17.8
Value(NRs)                 0              0              0        0        0        0          0        0         0         178       267         0         0
e) Manure (t/ha)               0              4              4        0        0        0          4        6         0         0         4           0         0
Price (NRs/t)              1SO            180            180 18     0      180      180        180      180       180      180        ISO         180       180
Value(NRs)                 0              720            720      0        0        0          720      1080      0        0          720         0         0
iii) Chanicals (NRstha)                      40             30             20       0        0         0         20       0         0         0         0           0         0
B. Labor Cost (Riba)                         5037           4329           2597    3203.4   2408.8   2086        5115    4714       0         3604      6060        0         0
i)HumanLabor(Day)                            120            90             70       69       38       35         150      125       0         110       150        0         0
Price (NRs/day)            236            23.6           23.6     23.6     23.6     23.6       23.6     23.6      23.6      23.6     23.6         23.6      23.6
Value (NRs)                2832           2124           1652     1628.4  896.8    826         3540     2950      0        2596       3540       0         0
ii) DraftLabor (PairDay)                     35             35             15       25       24        20        25       28        0         16        40          0         0
Price(NRs/pairday)           63             63             63       63       63       63         63       63        63       63        63          63        63
VaIue (NRs)                2205           2205           945      1575     1512     1260       1575     1764      0         1008     2520        0         0
Net Economic Retur(NRs(t Xl-2)               22283           14889         12469    13382.6  5496.4  4514        9500.1   20616    0          8363      24448       0         0
Sources: (I) Outputsand Inpuft/per ba, from SAR
(2) Econ Pnce (Tible 4)
/a       Ma in   Monsoon Paddy.
/b       Early - Hot season/sprng Paddy.
/c       Byproducts for oilseeds, pulses, gms\mung, sugcawne not valued u famers generaly sel the whole crop to processors.



44
NEPAL - Sunsari Morang Irrigation II Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2 - Economic Re-evaluation
TABLE 2                                                            Crop Budget for Stage I & II
With Project (1998/99)
NRsba Econ. 1994/95 Prices
Production Parameltn                                                                           Crop
Paddy        Pddy          Maim    Weat    Od    Pulse           Jute    Potato   Tomato   Brr4al       rcmane    Gram    Cabbbae
(Main)       (Early)                                  (Latil)                                                    Mwtg
I. Gross Return (NRstha)                   40727         50331         29976   40020   12800   10850        18629.4 87570   72000    43875    65250          16537    50350
A. Main Product (mttha)                    3.5            3.9           3       3        0.8      1         1.5      21       24        25       45          1         19
Price (NRxtt)            11050         12310         9810    13110   16000   10850    12290   4170    3000           1755      1450        16537    2650
Value(NRs)               38675          48009        29430   39330   12800   10850    18435   87570   72000    43875    65250              16537    50350
B. By-product(mt/Iha)                      3.8            4.3           3.9     3        0        0         2.4      0        0         0        0           0        0
Price (NRIst)            540           540           140      230      4500    0         81       0        0         0         45         0         0
Value(NRs)               2052          2322           546     690      0        0         194.4    0       0         0         0           0        0
2. Producton Cost (NRs/ha)                 8664.5         8710.5        6691.6  7219.8  3263.8  4044        6352    25605   10534       10146    14994       3812      9920
A. Input Cost                              2407.5         2453.5        2795.6  3245    744.8   1525        647      19317   4317       4047      7124       1120      3939
i) Seed
a)Seedrate(Kg4wa)             55             55            18       120     6        50        8        2000    1          1        2800        20        1
Price (NRak               8.5           9.7           13.2    10.5    15.8    19.9        31.5    7.7       720       450       0.8        16.5      342
Value(NRs)               467.5         533.5         237.6   1260    94.8    995          252      15400   720        450      2240        330      342
ii) Fertilizer Cost                       1840           1840          2478    1975    530       530       395      3717    3447       3447     44U4        790      3447
a) N  (KgIha)               45            45            40       50       15       15        10      60       50        50        100        20        50
Price (NRsA/g)            27            27            27       27      27       27        27       27       27        27        27         27        27
Value(NRs)               1215           1215          1080    1350    405       405       270      1620    1350       1350     2700        540       1350
b)P (Kg/ba)                 25            25            20       25      5        5         5        30       30        30        50         10        30
Price (NRT/kg)            25            25            25       25      25       25        25       25       25        25        25         25        25
Value(NRs)               625           625           500      625      125      125       125      750     750       750       1250        250      750
c) K (Kg&a)                 0             0             10       0       0        0         0        15       15        15        30         0         15
Price (NRk)               17.8          17.8          17.8    17.8    17.8    17.8        17.8    17.8    17.8        17.8      17.8       17.8      17.8
Value(NR9)               0             0              178     0        0        0         0        267     267       267       534         0        267
e) Manure (mtt/ba)            0             0             4        0        0       0         0        6        6         6         0          0         6
Price (NRst/)            180           180           180      180      180      180      1W       180      180       180       180        180       180
VahLe(NRs)               0             0              720     0        0        0         0        1080    1080       1080     0           0        1080
iu) Chemicals (NRstha)                      100           80            80       10      120      0         0        200      150       150      400         0         150
B. Labor Cost (NRsaha)                     6257           6257          3896    3974.8  2519    2519        5705    6288    6217        6099     7870        2692     5981
i) Human Labor ( Day)                      145           145           85       83       40      40         175     165      170       165       200        50        160
Price (NRs/day)             23.6          23.6          23.6    23.6    23.6    23.6         23.6    23.6    23.6       23.6      23.6        23.6     23.6
Value (NRs/ha)               3422          3422          2006    1958.8  944       944       4130    3894    4012        3894      4720       1180      3776
ii) Draft Labor ( pair Day)                45             45            30      32       25       25        25       38      35         35       50          24       35
Price (NR&/pairday)           63            63            63       63       63       63        63      63       63        63        63         63        63
Value (NRAt/a)               2835          2835          1890    2016    1575    1575        1575    2394    2205        2205     3150        1512      2205
Net Economic Return (NRJ/haX1-2)           32062.5        41620.5       23284.4  32800.2  9536.2  6806      12277.4 61965   61466    33729    50256          12725    40430
TAS2 WL1 /T13



45
NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Irrigation H Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2 - Economic Re-evaluation
TABLE 3                                      Crop Yields and Production Inputs
Stage 11
1. ICR Estimate (1994/95)
Crop            Season        Yield (mt/ha)      Seed        Fertilizer      Farm    Manual  Bullock  Chemical
Crop                 kg/ha    N      P      K    Manure   Labor  pair day   NRs/ha
Yield  By-Product            kg/ha  kg/ha  kg/ha  mt/ha   man day
MainPaddy              Kharif        3.1      3.2            60    35      15      0        0      130      40        60
Vegetable(Brinjal)     Kharif       15.0      0.0             1    40      20    10        4       135      30        80
Wheat                  Rabi         2.4       2.4           120    35      20      0        0       80      30         10
Oilseed                Rabi         0.6       1.2             8    10       5      0        0       38      22         0
Pulses(Lentil)         Rabi          0.7      0.9            50    10       5      0        0       38      21         0
Potato                 Rabi         15.0      0.0          1500    40      20    10         4      150      35       300
Vegetable(Cabbage)     Rabi         15.0      0.0             1    40      20    10        4       140      30       120
Early Paddy            Hot/Spring    2.6      2.7            60    20      20      0        0      120      40        50
Maize                  Hot/Spring    2.0      2.6            20    20      10      0        2       75      25        60
Jute                   Hot/Spring    1.3      2.1             8      0      0      0        0      150      25         0
CTram (Mung bean)      Hot/Spring    0.0      0.0             0      0      0      0        0        0       0         0
Vegetable(Tomato)      Hot/Spring    0.0      0.0             0      0      0      0        0        0       0         0
Sugarcane              Perennial    35.0      0.0          2500    90      45    25        0       180      45       250
2. At Full Development (1998/99)
Main Paddy             Kharif       3.8       3.8            55    45      25      0       0       145      45       100
Vegetable(Brinjal)     Kharif       25.0      0.0             1    50      30    15        6       165      35       150
Wheat                  Rabi         3.0       3.0           120    50      25      0       0        83      32        10
Oilseed                Rabi         0.8       0.0 /a          6    15       5      0       0        40      25       120
Pulses(Lentil)         Rabi          1.0      0.0 /a         50    15       5      0        0       40      25         0
Potato                 Rabi         21.0      0.0          2000    60      30    15         6      165      38       200
Vegetable(Cabbage)     Rabi         19.0      0.0             1    50      30    15        6       160      35       150
Early Paddy            Hot/Spring    3.9      4.3            55    45      25      0       0       145      45        80
Maize                  Hot/Spring    3.0      3.9            18    40      20    10        4        85      30        80
Jute                   HoVSpring    1.5       2.4             8    10       5      0       0       175      25         0
Gram (Mung bean)       HoVSpring    1.0       1.2            20    20      10      0       0        50      24         0
Vegetable(Tomato)      Hot/Spring   24.0      0.0             1    50      30    15        6       170      35       150
Sugarcane              Perennial    45.0      0.0 /a       2800   100      50    30        0      200       50       400
/a   See Table 1, footnote /c.
Source: same as table I
TAB3.XLS1131196



46
NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Irrigation II Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2 - Economic Re-evaluation
Table 4                                    Financial and Economic Prices
Financial Price                                                     Economnic Price
Item             Unit             (1994/95)                        Conversion                      (1994 Constant)
Crops/Goods  By-product  Crops/Goods    By-product   Crops/Goods   By-product
Crops                   NRs.fton
Paddy (Main)2                         6910                  600          /1                /2                 11050               540
Paddy (Early)6'                       7700                  600          /3                /2                 12310               540
Wheat                                  6700                 250           /1               /2                  13110              230
Maize                                 6290                  150          /2                /2                   9810              140
Oilseeds Z'                           17780                   -           /2               /2                  16000              -
Pulses/Lentil Z7                      12050                              /2                /2                 10650               -
Potato                                4630                   -           /2                -                    4170              -
Brinjal                                1950                  -           /2                                     1755              -
Tomato                                 3330                   -           /2                .                   3000              -
Cabbage                               2940                    -           /2                .                   2650              -
Sugarcanel U                           760                   -           /1                /2                   1450              -
Jute                                   7980                   90          /1               /2                  12290                81
Gram  (Mung)                          18375                   -           /2                -                  16537              -
Grm. .. u9)8............. .. 135......... ......  ............n,, ,,,,, .............................    .......................... ............ .......................................
SeedtSeedlina           NRs.Ag
Paddy (Main)9                                9.4                         /2                                       8.5
Paddy (Early)6'                             10.8                         /2                                       9.7
Wheat                                       11.7                         /2                                      10.5
Maize                                       14.7                         /2                                      13.2
OilseedsZ'                                  17.5                         /2                                      15.8
Pulses/Lentil                               22.1                         /2                                      19.9
Potato                                       8.5                         /2                                       7.7
Brinjal                                   500.0                          /2                                    450.0
Tomato                                     800.0                          /2                                   720.0
Cabbage                                    380.0                          /2                                   342.0
Sugarcane                                   0.94                         /2                                       0.8
Jute                                        35.0                         /2                                      31.5
Gram  (Mung)                                18.4                         /2                                      16.5
...................................  .............. ............. ............... ......................................  ... ............................................... .......................  ......................... .......
Fertilizer              NRs./kg
Urea (46:0:0)                    5.6 (12.2)/8                            /1                          12.4 (27.0)/5
DAP (18:46:0)                    12.5(27.1)18                            /1                          11.5 (25.0)15
Potash (0:0:60)                  8.5(14.2)/8                             /1                          10.7(17.8)/5
Farm  Manure           NRs9.on             200.0                         /2                                    180.0
.....I.............................. .............. ............ ............ ..........................   ...................... ... ..........................   ......................... ..........................   ......................... ........
Hired Labor             NRs.day             35.0                                                                23.6
Bullock Labor           NRs./day            70.0                         /2                                     63.0
TAB4.XLS
Remarks:                1/ Derived from the data of WB Commodity Price Forecasts, Table 5.
2/ Financial value is converted to economic value by multiplying by SCF of 0.90..
J/ Assume the same premium for local paddy against improved paddy as in financial prices.
4/ Multiplied by SCF of 0.90 and shadow wage rate of 0.75.
5/ Economic price of nutrients (Nitrogen, Phosphorus, Potassium) based on Urea, DAP, Potash
respectively.
St Paddy: Main monsoon paddy and Eariy/Hot season paddy.
7/ Oilseed and Sugarcane: residues not valued separately as farmers sell whole seeds and
cane to mill - pulses by product is used as fuel.
8 Financial prices of nutrients (N, P, K).
:\bscottktab4wee -vY



47
NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Irrigation li Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appedix 2 - Econoniic R-evalation
Table 5                                          Economic Price Estimate for Tradeable Commodities
Fam Products                                                                                                                 (Unit: /ton)
tnm                                 tUnit     Paddy      Wheat    Main           9i           ue
I Projected 2005 World Price (in 1990 price) /1                      US$           267       147        91          235           292
2 Projected 2005 World Price (in 1994 pric) /1                       US            286       158        98          252           313
3 QualityAdjus-ant                                                    %             90        95        90           95           100
4 Projected Price Adjusted for Quality Diffsoe                       US$           257       ISO         8B         239           313
5 Intanational Shippeg nd Handmg                                     US$            38        70        66           66             0
6 FOB/CF Pricet Calcutt Part                                         US           295       220       154          305           313
J JMf 8WaWnkn1 Nepa Bards                                             31
8      aPrcto      c    lBode                                 im           332        257       IN1         3432           i7
Equivelat inNRs.Aon /2                                             NRs        16,600    12.850      9,550      17,100         13,300
9 Dormbc Transpot and Hndling from/to Wholeale Pont /3               NRB           340       340       340          340             0
10 Proeeing Ratio                                                      %             65       100       100            9            90
11 Procesr*gcst /3                                                    NRB          -162         0         0          -90           -45
12 By-ProductInughproc ing /3                                         NRs           280         0         0           50             0
13 Trieport1handling from Fntc /3                                     NRs           -8        41        -81          -1            -41
14 Fargate Price                                                      NRs        11,050    13,110      9,810       1,450         12,290
FPm hnub
Item                                 USIt      Un        T.SP.    KCL /4    DAP /5
I Projected2005WorldPrice(hil990price)/t AUSt                                      137       115        99          153
2 Projectd2005WorldPricr(inl994price)/A                              US$           147       123       106          164
3 ntantoal Spai and Hadling                                           SS            60        66        66           66
4 FOB/F Price at Calcutta Port                                       US$           207       189       172          230
5 Trnwport id Handlingronm/to Nepal Brdr                             UTSS           37        37        37           37
6 FOB/CF Prie at Bitugr                                              US$           244       226       209          267
Equivalent in NRa/tion /2                                          NRs        12200    11,300    10,450        13,350
7 Domestic T port wnd Handling to Dccler/Coo qat    /3               NRs           140       140       140          140
8 Trnport/lndlingfroomFumgate /3                                     NRs            81        81        81           81
9 Fuigate Price                                                     NMs         12.421    11,521    10,671       13,571
10 Pnce of Nutint Contetr /6                                          NR         27,000    25,600    17,790       -
Note:
/I Based on the World Bank, Com.odity Market and the Developing Countries, Febny 1995.
The IBERD eatmate are -e in 1990 consi US$, which lbva boen
adjusted by the fActor of 1.0728 (MUV) to allow for price escalation betwen 1990 and 1994.
Paddy      Rice : Thai, Milled, 5% broken, FOB Bardeik
Wheat      Canadian No. 3, Western Red Sprun  FOB St Lawrmce
Maize     : USNo. 2. YelLow, FOB Gulf Ports
Sugarcane  : Supr : ISA daily price, FOB and stowed at Greater Cribbean Ports
Jute       White D. FOB Chatgong/ChaIna
Urea       Bagad, FOB NW Europe
T.S.P    : Bulk, FOB US Guf
KCL      : Buk FOB Vancouver
DAP      : Bulk, FOB US Oulf
/2 Excb.sa ate US$ 1.00 - NRb. 50.00
/3 Adjuyted'bySCFof 0.90
/4 Poteianm Chloride (Murnate of Potah)
/5 Nutint contnt of Diwmwniu Phoaphat (DAP) is18:46:0.
/6 Nutint content in 46%, 45%, mid 60%, rpetively for Urea, TSP and KCL.



48
NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Irrigation 11 Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2 - Economic Re-evaluation
Table 6                             Cropping Intensity (%  of CCA) and Cropped Area (ha)
Appraisal Estimate                                ICR Estimate                At Full Development
Without Project                 With Project                    (1994/95)                      (1998/99)
Crop            Stage I         Stage II       Stage I        Stage 11        Stage I        Stage 11         Stage I        Stage II
(9,750 ha)     (16,700 ha)     (9,750 ha)    (16,700 ha)     (9,750 ha)     (16,700 h!a)     (9,750 ha)     (16,700 ha)
%      ha      %       ha      %      ha      %      ha      %       ha      %      ha      %       ha      %       ha
Kharif
Main Paddy             84    8190      84   14028    84    8190       84   14028     95    9262      93   15531     84    8190      84   14028
Vegetable (Brinjal)      1      98      1      167     2      195      2     334      1       97      0       0       1      98       1     167
Sub-total         85    8288     85   14195    86    8385       86   14362     96    9359      93   15531      85    8288      85   14195
Rabi
Wheat                  23    2243      17    2839    28    2730       28    4676     40    3905      43    7181    40    3900       40    6680
Oilseeds                10     975      2     334    15    1462       15   2505      10     975      12    2004     12    1170       12    2004
Pulses (Lentil)         8      780      2     334      18   1755      18   3006      12    1170      13    2171    12    1170       12    2004
Potato                   1      98      1      167     3     292       3     501      1      97       2     334      4      390      3      501
Vegetable (Cabbage)      -       -      -        -      -       -      -       -      2      195      1     167      3      292      2      334
Sub-total         42    4096     22    3674    64    6239       64   10688     65    6342      71   11857    71    6922        69   11523
Hot Season
Early Paddy             11    1072      8    1336    16    1560       16   2672       -        -      -       0     16    1560       16    2672
Maize                   6      585      6    1002      3     292       3     501      1      97       -       0      4      390      4      668
Jute                    7      683      7    1169      5     487       5     835      2      195      2     330      3      292      3      501
Gram (Mung beam)         -       -      -        -     2      195      2     334      1       97      -        -     2      195      2      334
Vegetable (Tomato)       -       -      -        -      1      97      1     167      2      195      -        -     3      295      2      334
Sub-total         24    2340     21    3507    27    2631       27    4509      6      584      2      330     28    2732      27    4509
Perennial
Sugarcane                1      98      1      167      1      97      1     167      2      195      3     501      0        0      3      501
Total          152   14822    129   21543   178   17352    178  29726    169   16480    169   28219   184   17942    184   30172
File: T-7 (Table 6.XLS)



NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Irrigation II Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2 - Economic Re-evaluation
Table 7A                                                             Flow of Benefits in Stage II Area
In 1994 Constant Economic NRs
'87/88              '88/89     189/90     S90/91    '91/92     '92/93      '93/94     94/95      '95/96     '96/97     '97/98     '98/99     99/100
Stage 11
Tobtl Area= 16700 ha
1     'Traditional" Production (frction)               1.00           1.00          1.00       0.99      0.96       0.88        0.76       0.59       0.38       0.20       0.06       0.00      0.00
2     'Improved" benefit buildup                      0.00            0.00          0.00       0.01       0.04       0.12       0.24       0.41       0.62       0.80       0.94       1.00       1.00
rate (fraction) /a
3     Economic Net Crop                              406.35                                                                                                                                     934.67
Production Value lb                         ("Tradit.")                                                                                                                               ("Improved")
t    Aggregate Crop
Productiog Value/c                             406.35          406.35       406.35     411.63     427.48     469.75     533.15     622.96     733.91     829.01     902.57     934.67     934.67   ,.
5    Increm.CropProductionValue/d                     0.00           0.00          0.00       5.28       21.13     63.40    126.80   216.61    327.56   422.66   496.62   528.32   528.32
/a From Table 7B
/b From Table 7D
/c Equals sum of 1987/88 & 1998/99 production values (Row 3) multiplied by respective fractions in Rows I and 2.
/d Incremtental values over 1987/88 levels.
/e Assumed, as result of CMC improvements and desilting measures.
Flow or Benefits in Stsae I Area
78/79-'85/S6    '86/87toS8/89  '89/90    '90/91    '91/92    '92/93    '93/94    '94/95    '95/96    '96/97    '97/98    98/99  99/100   100/101   101/102-bey
Stags I
1   Pro-Project Production (fraction)          1.00          0.99     0.99      0.99      0.95     0.88      0.88      0.77     0.61      0.61      0.42     0.26      0.14      0.04     0.00
2   Improved (Buildup rate, fraction)           0.01         0.01     0.01      0.01      0.05     0.12      0.12      0.23     0.39      0.39      0.58     0.74      0.86      0.96     1.00
3   Incremental Ec. Net Crop                   332.88                                                                                                                                     557.44
Production Value.
4   Agregeae Crop
ProductionValuc                           332.88        335.13    335.13    335.13    344.11    359.83    359.83    384.53    420.46    420.46    463.12    499.05    526.00    548.46    557.44
5   IncrenwcntalCropProductionValue             0.00          2.25     2.25     2.25      11.23     26.95    26.95     51.65     87.58    87.58     130.24    166.17    193.12    215.58    224.56



50
NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Irrigation II Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2 - Economic Re-evaluation
Table 7B                  Construction of Physical Works and Build-up of
Yields, Inputs, Application and Cropping Intensity
1. Achievement of Phvsical Works (Construction)
Year        88/89 /a    89/90    90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94     Total
habyyear            891       2713     2421     2375      5037     3113    16550
ha cumulative       891       3604     6025     8400    13437    16550
% cum. of 16550 ha   5         21       36       51        81      100
Incremental %       0.05      0.16     0.15      0.15     0.30     0.19
/a Project started in 1987/88.
Assumotion:
Yearly build up of yields through changes in cropping intensity, inputs application is estimated at:
Year    1        2        3         4        5
%     0        10       45       69       100
Total        88/89    89/90    90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94  94/95   95/96  96/97  97/98 98/99
Increm. physl.constr  1       0.05     0.16     0.15      0.15     0.30     0.19
Cum.benefit buildup           0.00     0.00      0.10     0.45     0.69     1.00
buildup of 88/89              0.00     0.00     0.01      0.02     0.03     0.05   0.05    0.05   0.05   0.05  0.05
buildup of 89/90                       0.00     0.00      0.02     0.07     0.11   0.16    0.16   0.16   0.16  0.16
buildup of 90/91                                 0.00     0.00     0.02     0.07   0.10    0.15   0.15   0.15  0.15
buildup of 91/92                                          0.00     0.00     0.02   0.07    0.10   0.15   0.15  0.15
buildup of 92/93                                                   0.00     0.00   0.03    0.14   0.21   0.30  0.30
buildup of 93/94                                                            0.00   0.00    0.02   0.09   0.13  0.19
Total                         0.00     0.00      0.01     0.04     0.12     0.24   0.41    0.62   0.80   0.94  1.00
Residual (Traditional)        1.00     1.00     0.99      0.96     0.88     0.76   0.59    0.28   0.20   0.06  0.00
Source: Nippon Koei Consultants, SMIP IlIl Feasibility Study, April 1995.



51
NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Irrigation 11 Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2 - Economic Re-evaluation
Table 7C                  Incremental Net Value of Crop Production in Stage I Area
at Project startup (1987/88) & at full development (1998/99)
Econ Rs
Crop                Without Project 1987/88              With Project 1998/99
Area       Net        Total       Area         Net          Total         Incremental
Under     Return      Net         Under       Return         Net         Net Production
Crop     Per (ha)    Return       Crop       Per (ha)      Return          in Value
ha       NRs         NRs          ha          NRs          NRs              NRs
Paddy Main      8190       26290    215315100      8190        32087       262792530       47477430
Paddy Early     1073       27704    29726392       1560        41646       64967760        35241368
Maize            585       10525     6157125       390         23304       9088560          2931435
Wheat           2243      22453    50362079        3900        32825       128017500       77655421
Oilseeds         975       7212      7031700       1170        9541        11162970         4131270
Pulses(Lentil)   780       11062     8628360       1170        13831       16182270         7553910
Jute             683       10238     6992554       292         12282       3586344         -3406210
tPotato          98       44351      4346398       390         66390       25892100        21545702
Tomato            0          0          0          295         61496       18141320        18141320
Brinjal          98        17720     1736560        98         33759       3308382          1571822
Sugarcane        98       27919      2736062        0          50306          0            -2736062
Gram (Mung)       0         0           0          195         12735       2483325          2483325
Cabbage           0         0           0          292         40460       11814320        11814320
All /Total      14823        -      333032330     17942          -        557437381        224405051
CCA= 9750 ha          Intensity 152%                       Intensity 184%
(-) Reflects the reduction in cropped areas of Jute and Sugarcane.



52
NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Irrigation 11 Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2 - Economic Re-evaluation
Table 7D                   Incremental Net Value of Crop Production in Stage 11 Area
at project startup (1 987/88) & full development (1 998/99)
Econ Rs
Crop                   Without Project 1987/88                          With Project 1998/99
Area          Net          Total       Area         Net          Total    Increnental
Under        Return         Net        Under       Return         Net      Net Production
Crop        Per ha        Return       Crop       Per ha        Return   in Value
ha /a       NRs /b         NRs         ha /a       NRs /c        NRs       NRs
Paddy Main       14028         22283       312585924     14028       32062       449765736      137179812
PaddvEarly        1336         14889       19891704      2672        41621       111211312      91319608
Maize             1002         12469       12493938       668        23284       15553712        3059774
Wheat             2839         13383       37994337      6680        32800       219104000      181109663
Oilseeds          334          5496         1835664      2004         9536       19110144       17274480
Pulses(Lentil)    334          4514         1507676      2004         6806       13639224       12131548
Jute              1169         9500        11105500       501        12277        6150777       -4954723
Potato            167          20626        3444542       501        61965       31044465       27599923
Tomato             0            0              0          334        61466       20529644       20529644
Brinjal           167          8383         1399961       167        33729        5632743       4232782
Sugarcane         167         24488         4089496       501        50256       25178256       21088760
Gram (Mung)        0             0             0          334        12725       4250150        4250150
Cabbage            0            0              0          334        40430       13503620       13503620
All /Total       21543                     406348742     30728                   934673783      528325041
Intensity 129%                  Intensity 184%
CCA= 16700 ha
Source:        /a       From Table 7
/b      From Table I
/c       From Table 2
T*7D.XLS113i198



NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Irrigation 11 Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2 - Economic Re-evaluation
Table Sa                                                                             Stage 11 ArPr Yearwise Investment costs - (NRs mill)  /1
1987/U8                1988/89               1989/90                 1990/91                1991/92           21.42                        1993/94    /2         1994/95/3                   Total
Particulars              FC     LC    Total    FC       LC    Total    FC      LC    Total    FC      LC    Total    FC       LC    Total    FC      LC    Toal    FC       LC    Total    FC       LC    Total    FC      LC    Total
FINANCIAL COSTS /I
I Land Acquisitio            -       2.00    2.00    -      3.09    3.09    -      0 27    0.27    -      -       0.00    -       8.47    8.47    -      8.50    8.50    -       8.49    8 49    -      2.08    2.08  0.00   32.90    32.90
2. Civil Works
- ICB Consact                 --          0.00   23.24    2.72   25.95   64.54   19.18   83.72  130.02   32.69  162.71  236.70   40.98  277 69  319.08   69.79  388.87  244 00   44.90  288.90   21.28    4.02   25.30 1038.85 214.27  1253.13
- Buildings/4             0.56    0.44    1.00    0.56    0.44    1.00    -     -       0.90  0.00    0.00      0.00    0.84    0.66    1.50    1.56    1.22    2.78    0.54    0.43    097    -     -       0.00  4.06    3.19     7.25
. LCBForce Account/4      4.59   10.70   15.29    7.41   17.30   24.71    3.35    7.82   11.17    4.28   10.00   14.28    7.31   1704   2435    5.57   12.99   18.56   11.66   27.19   38.85    4.05    9.45   13.50  48.22   112.49  160.71
Sub-Total   5.15   11.14   16.29  31 21   20.46   51.66   67.89   27 00   94.89  134.30   42.69  176.99  244.85   58.68  303.54  326.21   84.00  410.21  256 20   72 52  328.72   25 33   13.47   38.80 1091.13  329.95 1421.09
3. Equipmenl and Vhicles     0.14  000      0.14    4.30    0.23    4.53    0.65    0.03    0.68    1.40    007    1.47    2.41    0.13    2.54    2.03    0.11    2.14  107.33    5.65  11298   1567    0.08   15.75 133.93   6.30    140.23
4. Techoical Assistance
and Training /4
- Consultants             -      -       0.00   1530    3.05   1835   14.15    2.78   1693   22.20    436   26.56   54.43   10.68   65.11   42.43    8.32   50.75   31 77    6.23   38.00    0.91    0.17    1.08 181.19  35.59   216.78
* Technical asssstance    -      0.19    0.19    -       0.10    0.10    -      0.07    007            -       0.00  0.00      038    0.38    -       1.65    1.65    -      4.17    4.17    -      0.50    0.50  0.00    7.06      7.06
for training
Sub-Total   0.00    0.19    0.19   15.30    3.15   18.45   14.15    2.85   17.00   22.20    436   26.56   54.43   11.06  65.49   4243    9.97   52.40   31.77   10.40   42.17    091    0.67    1.58 181.19  42.65   223.84
5. Establishment /4          -       3.25    3.25    -      3.57    3.57    -      3.34    3.34    .       4 29    4.29    -      8.23    8.23    -      7.59    7.59    .       7.57    7.57    -      8.20    8.20  0.00   46 04    46.94
Total oflnvestinentCost     5.29   16.58   21.87   50.81   30.50   81.30   82.69   33.49  116.18  157.90   51.41  209.31  301.69   86.57  308.27  37067  110.17  480.84  395.30  104.63  499.93   41.91   24.50   66.41 1406.25  457.84 18e64.10
ECONOMIC COSTS
Local deflation index                0.44                   0.48                   0.52                   0.65                    0 77                   0.85                    0.92                   1 00
Foreign deflation itnex      0.83                   0.89                    0.88                   0 93                   0 95                    0.99                   0.97                   1.90
INVESTMENT COSTS (constant 94/95)
I. Land Acquisition/5                       0.88                    1.48                   0.14                   0.00                    6.52                   7.23                   7.81                    2.08
2 Civil Works
FC                  4.27                  27.77                   59.94                 125 31                 233.35                  324.25                 248.77                  23.33
L.C- Labour ( 0.3) /6         0 99257                1.98851                2.84298                5.61853                 9.14987                14 4583                 13.5105                2.72733
LC- Materials (0.7)             3.09                   6.19                    8.84                  17.48                  28.47                   44.98                  42.03                   8.49
Sub- Total                  8.35                  35.95                   71.63                 148.40                 270.96                  383.69                 304.31                  36.54
3. Equipment and Vehicles
FC               0.12                    3.83                   0.57                   1.31                    2.30                   2.02                  104.22                  15.67
LC                       0.00                   0.10                    0.01                   0.04                   0.09                    0.08                   4.68                   0.07
Sub- Total                  0.12                   3.93                   0.59                    1.35                   2.39                   2.10                  108.90                  15.74
4. TA and Training
FC               0.00                   13.62                  12.49                  20.71                   51.87                  42.18                  30.85                    0.91
LC                       0.08                    1.36                   1.33                   2.55                    7.66                   7.63                   8.61                   0.60
Sub-Total                   0.08                  14.98                  13.83                   23.26                  59.54                  49.80                   39.46                   1.51
5. Establishmenlt                            1.29                   1.54                    1.56                   2.51                   5.70                   5.81                    6.27                   7.38
Total Invesament Cosl (Constant 94/95)      10.71                  5738                   87.75                  175.52                 345.11                 448.62                  466.75                  63.26
NOTE          1.    FC anSd LC corm inocludes cotgecis snd price esculatios
2.   Iocludes SMHP Experuiture of die dredgrns paid under die Project.
3.    Cost up to Mach 31, 1995 icduiag bill (t. 41) and fInal bill no.42 for ICB Contract.
4.    Dat provided by SMIP AccoA Section, ircludes icrem. suff coast only.
5.    Asmse tded at pprumity cost; LC = FEC, coverted by local inllation inldex.
6.    Conversions for FC = 1.0: LC= 0.9 (exeqi land where FEC= LC); libtnur= 30% LC  0.90.75, converted by local & foreign indices.
7.   Salaries taken at SCF = 0.9 end SWR = 1.0, cotverted by local inflation idex.
T-8.XLS



Sheei
NEPAL
Sunneri Moreng lmdgation 21 Project
Implementation Completion Report
________________                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~Appendix 2 - Economic Reevaluotion
Table Sb                          Y__                                    earwise Investment Costs of Stage 1  (in 1994/95 constant NRa mill)
t9' f9    9             7970                       IOSII               198122                     t9828                '1983184      _           184A                19115/86                  1ae7T.W
P.,sos                PCR        IC  Tout    IC       IC      Tint    rC       LC     Tol    Fc        IC     Towt    PC       LC    Toui    t9         IC  Tani    RU         I      Tout      K      IC      Tout      t9      LC    Tl    FI IC        C     Tout
FINANCIAL COST2 /
L.fltW      en,d         0.30    0.30    0.30    0.30    0.30  00 0ID      .30    0.30    0.30    0.30    L.o    1.30    0.300.0           . 0.   0.3     3.3D    3.20    0.30    0.80    0.80    0.03    0.30      0.30    0.30    L30    L.30    0.30    7.10    7.10
I CBIICB Conuac        2.1    2.32    4.00    3.00   10.20   13.20   15.30   25.10   40.40    7.OD   15.70   22.701  13.30    7.30   21.00   17.OD    8.80   25.40   39.33   32.77   72.101 73.13   62.57   235.701  27-80   28012   56300  298.32  193.30  391.40
B .~uid               0.0    0.40    0.40    0.3    .2.0    t.2D    0.30       .3 1. 30LO     0.30    0.80    0.80    0.30    0.40    0.40    0.30    0.30    0.30    0.30    0.60    0.600   0.30    0.30      0.301   0300    002    0300    0.30    4.90    4.90
S.h-.Tou    2.18    2.721 49        3.3 OD   .0     4.0 15.30   26.101 41.401   7.00   10.10   23.50   23.30    7.90   21.40   27.30    9.00   26.30   39.33   33.37   72.701 73.23   62.87   234.3    27.981 20.22    60282279   396.30
3.          u,i t Vad,,.    0.72  0.30     0.40   22.30    2.30   23.70   20.70    2.00   22750   20.30    2 .3-0  12.30    2.30    0.30    2.7    0.72    0.30    0.80    0.77    0.03    0.40    0.37    0.03      0.40    0.72    0.00    080   40.40    3.30   33.40
4. T.1laCul A300o
od Taidn                1.40    0.20    2.30    6.10    0.40    6.70    3.30    0.30    7.30    2.00    0.30    2.30    2.30    0.30    2.70 _5.30    0.60    5.60    7.20    0.30    3.30    7.30    0.30        8.30   12230    256   23350   46300    3.20   32.20
L..]2 Defa6  Ink,                  0.22                    0.22                    0.24 ___0.26                                    0.29                     0.31                    0.33   __ __            0.36                      0.42           ____                         _                     UlJ
.12
____L _________                4.       Onvr8On  fo   C          .0:L=0.ecetlnwerFE                      C;ILu 30 LC0075covtdb  local   tore9 n indices.0.4
_________________     0.3      Slre3ae   t C       .   n    W    = 1 12 .0 convrte   b  localin6atin2index
-LC U~~~ (0.3)  0.12    me                     1.2m                                                                    0 62'                    ID                                               2 335~~~~~~~age 



Sheetl
NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Irrigation 11 Project
Implementation Completion Report
-         =      =        =      =            l       l       |       |Appendix 2 - Economic Reevaluation
Table Sc                                                          Yearwise Investment Costs of Headworks Project I in 1994/95 constant NRs mill)
'19!2/93            '19'93/94                     '1994/95           1995/96|                    1996/97                                       Total
Pardculars           FC      LC    Total    FC       LC    ToTal    FC       LC    Tomal    FC       LC    Total    FC      LC    Total                             FC      LC     Total 
FINANCIAL COSTS /1
1. LAadAc Woisio          000      000 .  00      000    000 0oW       00    0.00    0.00    0.00 00W000000    0.00    000 0o00 0o00    000                                              000
2. Civil Works
- ICB/LCB Contracts   0.00    0.00    0.00   85.32   36.58  121.90  137.10   58.75  195.85  319.99  137.15  457.14    0.00   74.24   74.24                         542.41  306.72   849.13
-Bildings              0.00    0.00    0.00    000    000    000    0.00    0.00    0.00    000    000    0.00    0.00    000    000                                 000 0o00         000
I                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.00    0.00
Sub-Total   0.00    0.00    0.00   85.32   36.58  121.90  137.10   58.75  195.85  319.99  137.15  457.14    0.00   74.24   74.24                        542.41  306.72   849.13   _       __
0.00    0.00
3. EquipmentandVehicl    0.00  0.00       000    0.00    0.00    0.00  149.00   17.16  166.16   29.811  5.66   35.47    1.86    0.23    2.09                   _       18067   23051  203.72
0.00    0.00
4. Technical Assistance                                                                                                                                                  000 0o00
and Training          10.16    1.59   11.75   30. I   5.09   35.19  32.90    8.25   41.15   55-06    7.42   62.48    0.00    5.45    5.45                          128.22   27.80   156.01
0.00    0.00
0.00    0.00                                               -
0.00    0.00
Total of InvessD Cost  10.16    1.59   11.75  115.42   41.67  157.09  319.00   84.16  403.16  404.86  150.23  555.09    1.86   79.92   81.78                         851.29  357.57  1208.86
/a  Costs shown in Stage I PCR Table 2
Forein Deatott Index      0.99i                   0.97                    1.00                    1.02                   1.03
Local Deflation ndex              0.85    =               0.92                    1.00   _            |   1.09                   1.17
1. Land Acquisidon                        0.00                    0.00W                  0.00                    0.47                    0.00
2. Civil Works
-FC                      0.00                   82.76                  137.10                 324.79                    0.00
-LC Labw (0.3)                    t.oo                    6.81                   11.0                    30.13                  17.62
-LC Matcrial(0.7)                 Ott    88.o            21.20   110.70          37.0i   186.01          03n75  448.67        54.816   72.44
3.Equipment                   I                                                                                                                                              I
-FC                  |       l0                   0.00                  149.D0                   30.20               1.9172481  _
-Lc                  |            o0.00    o.00           0.00    0.00       1   15.44  164.44           5.53   35.78            0.24    2.16
4.Tecbnia Asst          10.0584    1.22   11.27   20.20    4.21   33.41   3Z00    7.43   40.331    .88.   7.20   63.13    0.00    5.75    5.75
5.Establis mem         |_     | o0.00    0.00              8.00    0.00            0.00    0.80           8.00      0               0       0
Econonic Cedts in constant
1994/95 NRs Mlin                ___    11.27 __   _             144.18         _       390.78                  548.05                   80.34
Note:          _      11.    FC and LC includes contingencies                   _     ____
1____ _  T2.    Data provided in Table 24 of SMIP 11 consultants' project completion report dated December 1994 and the follow-on disbursement fi ures
_______________   ____3.    Assume traded at opporunit cost ;LC= FEC, converted by local inflation index.
1____ _  14.    Conversions for FC = 1.0: LC= 0.9 (except land where FEC= LC); labour= 30% LC *O.9-0.75, converted by local & foreign indices.
5.    Salaries taken at SCF = 0.9 and SWR = 1.0, converted by local inflation index.-
6.    FLast year costs include additional costs for water management & tumover
Page 1



56
NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Irrigation 11 Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2 - Economic Re-evaluation
Table 9            Conversion Index for Local and Foreign Costs
Index for         I       Index for       Annual Average
Local Currency Component   Foreign Currency Componen  Exchange Rate
GDP             GDP               MUV                NRs
Year       Deflator (a)      Deflator         Index (b)           to US$
(1974/75 = 100)  11994/95 = 100    11994/95 =100)
1   1979/80         125.50            22.24                 61.20        11.90
2   1980/81         135.46            24.01                 67.20        11.90
3   1981/82         148.13            26.26                 67.40        12.80
4   1982/83          166.33           29.48                 66.40        13.67
5   1983/84         176.94            31.36                 64.90        15.24
6   1984/85         187.97            33.32                 63.50        17.73
7   1985/86         204.62            36.27                 64.00        19.55
8   1986/87         231.28            40.99                 75.50        21.53
9   1987/88         250.67            44.43                 82.90        21.97
10  1988/89          270.41           47.93                 89.00         25.32
11  1989/90          293.26           51.98                 88.30         28.40
12  1990/91          365.23           64.74                 93.30         31.31
13  1991/92          435.66           77.22                 95.30         42.62
14  1992/93          480.73 /P        85.21                  99.40        44.56
15  1993/94          517.61 /T        91.74                  97.10       49.01
16  1994/95          564.19 /E       100.00                100.00         50.00 /F
17  1995/96          612.15 /E       108.50                101.50
18  1996/97          661.12 /E       117.18                 103.30
19  1997/98          707.40 /E       125.38                106.00
20  1998/99          749.84 /E       132.91                 108.70
21  1999/00          794.83 /E       140.88                 111.40
22  2000/01          842.52 /E       149.33                 114.10
Note:  /P: Preliminary estimates
/T: Tentative estimates
/E: Based on expected annual increase in local currency, source (c) below.
/F: Assumption
Source: (a): National Accounts Statistics of Nepal, Central Bureau of Statistics, 1993
The Revised GDP Series of Nepal (1984/85 - 1993/94), Central Bureau of Statisitics, 1994
(b): World Bank, Operational Policies, Index of Unit Value of Manufactured Exports (MUV), Oct.
(c): World Bank, Updated Exchange Rate and Inflation Parameters for Project Analysis.
Ab: T-9 (TAbl 9.XLS1
Page 1



TABLE IOA
ANNUAL BUDGET REQUIREMENT FOR IMPLEMENTING OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OVER SMIP L,I0M AREAS (1994/95 constant prices)
FROM 1995/96                                                                                                                                        Unit: Rs. 000
S.No. Activities                                Cost/Ha.       1995/96     1996/97    1997/98    199|/99    1999/2000    2000/01    2001/02    2002/03    2003/04    2004/05    2005/06    2006/07
A.    Handworks                                      25.24          1716       1716       1716        1716         1716       1716       1716       1716       1716       1716      1716       1716
B.    CMC                                           118.25
i. Desilting (evesy three yeas)              73.55         5001                              5001              -                5001       -                     5001      -
ii. Maintenwce                               44.70         3040       3040        3040       3040          3040      3040       3040       3040       3040       3040       3040       3040
=   Sub Total                                                      8041       3040       3040        8041         3040       3040       8041       3040       3040       8041       3040       3040
C.    Stw  I Arem (9750 Ha )
1. Ranodelling cont                         5000.00          6560       6550       6570       6575                                     -          -                          -          -
2.0 & M cost by Project
i. DowntoWC level                           372.00         3255       2511        1581        839
ii. Down to SSC level                       230.00          230        460         575        459           519
iii. SC leve                                144.00                      144        432        792          1079       1404       1404       1404      1404       1404       1404       1404
3. O&M cost by WUOs
i. On em sytam                               50.00          438        336         213        113           383
ii. Upto Ttimy level                        192.00          192        391         473        383           433
iii. Uto SSC levei                          278.00       -             278         844       1529          2084      2711       2711       2711       2711       2711       2711       2711
Sub Total                                                10675       10669      10688      10690        4498         4115      4115       4115       4115       4115       4115       4115
D.    Stp B Am (16700 Ha)
1. O & M cot by Project
i. Dwn to WC level                          335.00         2293       2293                                         -                 -          -          -
ii. DowntoSSC level                         135.00          119                    924
iii. SC level                                54.00           48        524         524        894           894        894       894        894        894        894        894        894
2. OhM cost by WUOs
i. On frm system                             50.00          342         342      --
ii. Upto Tatimy level                       250.00         2204       -4
iii. Upto SSC level                         331.00          294       3212        5478       5478          5478       5478      5478       5478       5478       5478       5478       5478 *
Sub Tol_                                                     5300       6372       6926       6372          6372       6372       6372       6372       6372       6372       6372      6372
E.    O&M Stp mII Area (31500 Ha)                   345.00         10868      10868      10868      10868         10868      10868      10868      10868      10868      10868     1O868      10868
F.    W terM_enat Activities                                        5000       5000       5000       5000          5000       5000       5000       5000       5000       5000      5000       5000
F     Adminittive Cot (For the whole)               104.41          7100       7100       7100       7100          7100       7100       7100       7100       7100       7100      7100       7100
G. TOTAL OhM COST xecl Headwerks                                   46983      43048      43621      48070         36876      36493      41495      36493      36493     41495      36493      36493
H TOTAL ECON. OhM COSTS
a  FEC (16%)                                                    7517        6888       6979       7691          5900       5839       6639       5839      5839       6639       5839       5839
b  LC (84%)                                                    39466       36161      36641      40379         30976      30654      34856      30654     30654      34856      30654      30654
i. LC-LAbor C(70)                              I 1648      17086      17313      19079         14636      14484      16469      14484      14484     16469      14484      14484
ii. LC-Mdaisls (30%)                             10656       9763       9S93       10902         8364       8277       9411       8277       8277       9411       8277      827
Total O&M EcorL Cos                                         3621       33737      34186       37672        28900      28600      32519      28600      28600      32519      28600      28600
Prati Shom of Stl1e O&M117                                              117        117        117           117        117        117        117       117        150        150        150
Note: 1. All cos   e in cant 1994/95 rices.
2. Head    scos mre esued fo operction and no mujor coas for mntamnce of dredgen, rplomalt of put we forte L
( Spre pu etmaed sufficiat for the above period for the dredp*  fciity is being suWhed by the pent condor.)
3. CMC desilting wk is pspwed to be cwrred ott otce in evay thiee yawn.
4. The criticel moivity is the trafefe of the   bystn to the WUOs me thus the above requiresent is depandnt on aucesa  umvme of the sub-systerm.
5. 1lnmaon of the SMIP m wil dtlttislly affect the OhM cocs n the Stop m Are.
6. Fecr OKM  Libam is 70% of coDd comated st SCF-0.9 ad SWR- 0.75. Materish is 30ff of cook onvated at SCF of 0.9.
MA.=L



TABLE 101
O&M COSTS (I 9 9to 1I994/95) RjO000
33/9         N9/90       90/91       91/92      92/93        93/94        94/95
Tow forStIeI&H                               11997        2319         3403        tSt2       5646         17349       12774
FEC (I6%j dendl to 4/9S pnca                     170S           397         507       1350         S94          2693       2044
ILC (4%j            to9409S   rics               437           1231        1361       5745        4031         13407      10730
L LC-Labor(70%)                     2236           532        S79        2714       1905          6335       5070
ii. LC iwnals (30%)                  1306           332        502        1551        1088         3620        2397
Taul O&M E L Cs                                 5300           1311       1339       5616        3333         12647      10011
TADIOMU'



Sheetl
I          II         I                              I          I            I             I 
Table Ila - IRR & NPV for SMIP4Iv with SMHP(Drorata share by area)V/               Table 1lb - IRR & NPV for SMIPN. SMIP-I1. SMHP combined case
Year     Cost St.ll    SMHP    O&M & R       Benefits      Incremental             Year      Cost St.l   Cost St.ll   SMHP    O&M & R   Benefit  Incremental
1987/88        ($10.71)               ($1.64)                        ($12.35)          1978/79     ($3.27)                                                  ($3.27)
1988/89       ($57.88)                ($1.70)                        ($59.58)            79/80    ($16.13)                                                 ($16.13)
1989/90       (587.75)                ($0.83)                        ($88.58)            80/81    ($35.82)                                                 ($35.82)
1990191      ($175.52)                ($1.19)          5.28        ($171.43)             81/82    ($19.08)                                                ($19.08)
1991/92      ($345.11)                ($3.54)         21.13        ($327.52)             82183   ($14.12)                                                  ($14.12)
1992/93      ($448.62)     ($7.10)    ($2.45)          63.4        ($394.77)             83/84    ($19.96)                                                 ($19.96)
1993/94      ($486.75)    ($90.83)    ($7.97)         126.8        ($438.75)             84/85    ($38.95)                                                 ($38.95)
1994/95       ($63.26)   ($246.19)    ($6.31)         216.8         ($98.96)             85/86    ($71.51)                                                 ($71.51)
1995/96                  ($345.27)    ($15.88)       327.56         ($33.60)             86/87    ($42.41)                                         0       ($42.41)
1996/97                   ($50.61)   ($14.91)        422.66         $357.14            1987/88               ($10.71)                ($2.60)    2.25       (511.06)
1997/98                              ($15.19)        496.62         $481.43              88/89               ($57.88)                ($2.70)    2.25       ($58.33)
1998/99                              ($17.39)        528.32         $510.93              89/90               ($87.75)                ($1.31)    2.25       ($86.81)
1999/00                              ($11.86)        528.32         $516.46              90/91              ($175.52)                ($1.89)    7.53      ($169.88)
000/01            _                 ($11.67)        528.32         $516.65              91/92              ($345.11)               ($5.62)    32.36     ($318.37)
'001/02            _                 ($14.14)        528.32         $514.18              92/93              ($448.62)    ($11.27)   ($3.89)    90.35     ($373.43)
2002/03                              ($11.67)        528.32         $516.65              93/94              ($466.75)   ($144.18)    ($12.65)    153.75  ($469.83)
2003/04                              ($11.67)        528.32         $516.65              94/95               ($63.26)   ($390.79)    ($10.01)   268.26    ($195.79) t,
2004/05                              ($14.14)        528.32         $514.18        _     95/96                         ($548.05)    ($25.21)   415.14     ($158.12)  i
2005/06    __________                ($92.00)        528.32         $436.32              96/97 __ _                     ($80.34)    ($23.67)   510.24     $406.23
2006/07                              ($11.67)        528.32         $516.65            1997/98                                     ($24.12)   626.86      $602.74
2007/08                              ($14.14)        528.32         $514.18              98/99                                     ($27.60)    694.49     $666.89
2008/09                              ($11.67)        528.32         $516.65              99/00                                     ($18.83)    721.44     $702.61
2009/10                              ($11.67)        528.32         $516.65              00/01                                     ($18.53)    743.7      $725.17
2010/11                              ($14.14)        528.32         $514.18              01/02                                     ($22.45)   752.88      $730.43
2011/12                              ($11.67)        528.32         $516.65_             02/03                                     ($18.53)    752.88     $734.35
2012/13                              ($11.67)        528.32         $516.65       _    2003/04                                     ($18.53)   752.88      $734.35
2004/05                                     ($22.45)   752.88     $730.43
_         ERR, 25 year s                                              16%S'   _      2005/06                                     ($146.03)    752.88    $606.85
_         NPV @ 12%                                                $358.91      _    2006/07                                      ($18.53)   752.88     $734.35
NPV @ 10%                                                $667.90   _        2007/08                                     ($22.45)   752.88      $730.43
IRR, 26 years with benefit decreased by 20%                             14%            2008/09                                     ($18.53)   752.88      $734.35
IRR, 26 years with benefit decreased by 30%                             11%            2009/10                                     ($18.53)   752.88      $734.35
Note: All costs and benefits are expressed in NRs Million                              2010/11                                     ($22.45)   752.88      $730.43
1/ Prorata share 63% of SMHP cost is charged to the Stage II area.                     2011/12                                     ($18.53)   752.88      $734.35
2/ Replacement costs of dredgers after 10 years are included in both cases             2012/13                                     ($18.53)   752.88      $734.35
3/ O&M and R includes improvement of Stage I area, refer Table 1 Oa, 1 Ob  .                                        ERR, without Investment in St. I          19%
4/ References: Incremental Net Agri. Benefits from Table 7a, Investment costs from table 8                          ERR, 30 years with Stage I costs          13%
(Hydropower benefits are neglected)                                                          _                      NPV e 12%incid. Stage I costs          $50.39
I                                                                                             __9e_1NPV Q 10%incid. stage I costs             $211.09



NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Irrigation i1 Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2 - Economic Re-evaluation
Table 12A                                                                           Farm  Income of Typical Small Farm, Stage 11(1.4 ha) /a
(Without Project, 1987/88)
'(In constant 1994/95 financial prices)
Crop             Cropped     Cropped        Yield of        Yield of         Total prodution,            Output Fanngate                   Gross Farm Income, Rs                  Cost of Production /d      Net Farm
Area        Area     Main - product    By-product               (ton)                  Pricei, Rsitn /d
(%) /b     (ha) /b       (mt/ha) /c     (mt/ha) /c       Main            By           Main           By           Main             By      Total Gross         Costs        Total Coss      Inconme
product       product       product      product        product         product        ncome      Per (Rw/ba ) lb   of the farm      (Rs)
Paddy (Main)                   65.1          1.18              2.4           3.5           2.83          4.13         6910          600          19569.12       2478.00      22047.12            7498        8847.64       13199.48
Paddy (Early)                    6.2         0.12              1.6           2.3           0.19          0.28         7700          600           1478.40        165.60       1644.00            7510         901.20         742.80
Maize                            4.7         0.08              1.6           2.2           0.14          0.19         6290          150            851.41         27.92        879.33            4540         384.08        495.25
Wheat                           13.2         0.24              1.4           1.4           0.33          0.33         6700          250           2228.69         83.16       2311.85            6121        1454.35         857.50
Osibeeds                         1.5         0.03              0 5             0           0.01          0.00        17780            0            240.03          0.00        240.03            3115          84.11         155.93
Puls(Lentil) /e                  1.5         0.03              0.7             0           0.02          0.00        12050            0            227.75          0 00        227.75            3730         100.71         127.04
Jute                             5.4         0.09              1.3           2.1           0.12          0.19         7980           90            933.66         17.01        950.67            8344         750%96         199.71
Potato                          0.8          0.01               8              0           0.12          0.00         4630            0            533.38          0.00        533.38           14850         213 84        319.54
Sugarcane e/                    0.8          0.01              25              0           0.36          0 00          760            0            273.60          0.00        273 60           13290         191 38         82.22
Vegetables (Brijal)             0.8          0.01               8              0           0.12          0.00         1950            0            224.64          0.00        224.64            6581          94.77         129.87
AR / Total                       100         1.60                                                                                                  26561          27721        29332            75579         13023          16309   o
/a As Farm income includes income from Crop Enterpris  only
/b Avege Cropping mitensity of 129 % from SAR
/c From Table I
/d From Table 14C.
/e Farmers sel whole cane to the factory, hence no by productb are valued For pulses, no by-products are valued as they sel burn, it for fuel.
T-12ABC.XLS1/31/96



NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Irrigation II Project
Implementation Completion Report
Table 12B                                                            Farm  Income of Typical Small Farm, Stage II Area  (1.4 ha) /a
(With  Project at full development, 1998/99)
___________________  ________  _________   __________  _______________________                                                  un    Constant (in1Constan 9199 5 95 nfin ncial prices
crop            Cropped     Cropped        Yield of      Yield of         Total production.          Output Farigate                 Gros Fanm hinome, FR                  Cost of Productio /d      Net Farm
Area       Area     Main - product    By-product              (r_t)                 Price, Ri/ton /d
(%) /b     (ha) /b      (mt/ha) /c     (mt/ba) /c      Main           By          Maim          By           Main            By       Total Gros        Costr        TOlW Costa     Inome
product       product      produc       produd        product        product      Income      Per (Rs/ha ) /b   of tbe farm    (Ri)
Paddy (Main)                   45.6        1.09             3.5           3 8          3.83          4.16        6910          600         26468.06      2495.23     28963.30           10068      11018.42       17944.88
Paddy (Early)                   8.7        0.21             3.9           4.3          0.81          0.90        7700          600         6270.26        538.70      6808.97           10126       2114.31       4694.66
Maize                           2 2        0.05             3 0           3.9          0.16          0.21        6290          150           996.34        30.89       1027.22           7391        390.24        636.98
WIheat                         21 7        0.52             3 0           3.0          1 56          1.56        6700          250         10468.08       390.60      10858.68           7846       4086.20       6772 48
Oilseeds                        6.5        0.16             0.8           0.0          0.12          0.00       17780            0          2218.94         0.00      2218.94            3693        576.11        1642.84
PuleA(Lentil) /c                6.5        0 16             1.0           0 0          0.16          0.00       12050            0          1879.80         0.00       1879.80           4573        713.39        1166.41
Jute                            1.6        0 04              1.5          2 4          0.06          0.09        7980           90           459.65         8 29       467.94            8412        323.02         144.92
Potato                          1.6        004             21.0           0.0          0.81          0.00        4630            0         3733.63          000       373363            23718        910.77       2822.86
Vegetables (Cabbage)            1.1        0 03            19.0           0 0          0 50          0.00        2940            0          1474.70         0.00      1474 70           11416        301.38        1173 32
Vegetables (Brirjal)            0 5        0.01            25.0           0.0          0 30          0 00        1950            0          585.00          0.00       585.00           11711        140.53        444.47
Vegetables (tomato)             1.1        0.03            240            0.0         0.63          0.00        3330            0         2109.89          0.00      2109.89           12186        321.71       1788.18
Gram (Moong)                    I 1        0.03             1 0           0.0          0 03          0 00       18375            0           485.10         0 00       485.10            4313        113.86        371.24
Sugarcane /c                    16         0 04            45 0           0.0          1.73          0.00         760            0          1313.28         0.00       1313.28          16533        634.87        678.41
Ab/ Total                       00         2 40 _                                                                                            58463          3464        61926          131986         21645         40282
/s Farn income inchides ncome from Crop Enterpnnes ordy
lb Averag Cropping intensity of 184 % from SAR
/c  From Table 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                CY
/d From Table 14 D
/c  Famners e9 whole cane to the factory amd bum by products from pulses for fuel hence no cash value is reabzed from by products for pulse and sugareare.
T-12ABC.XLS1/31/96



NEPAL
Sunsari-Morang Irrigation 11 Project
Implementation Completion Report
Table 13A                                                                              Farm Income of Typical Medium Farm, Stage 11 (3.9 ha) /a
(Without Project. 1987/88)
(In constant 1994/95 Financial Priceas)
Crop            Cropped    Cropped         Yield of      Yield of         Total production,          Output Fanmgate                 Gross Farm Income, Rs                Cost of Production /d      Net Farm
Area       Area    Main - product    By-product               (mt)                  Price, Rs/ton /d
(%) /b     (ha) /b      (mt/ha) /c     (mt/ha) /c      Main           By          Main          By           Main            By       Total Gross       Costs       Total Costs      Income
product       product      product      product       product        product       Income     per (Riha ) /b   of the farm     (Rs)
Paddy (Main)                  65 1         3.27             2.4          3 00          7.86          9.82        6910          600           54305          5894        60199            7498         24552         35647
Paddy (Early)                  6.2         0.31             1.6          2.30          0.50          0.72        7700          600            3842           430         4272            7510          2342          1930
Maize                          4.7         0.24             1.6          2.20          0.38          0.52        6290          150            2379            78         2457            4540          1073          1384
Wheat                         13.2         0.66             1.4          1 40          0.93          0.93        6700          250            6228           232         6460            6121          4064          2396
Oilseeds                       1.5         0.08             0 5          0.00          0.04          0 00       17780            0             671             0          671            3115           235           436
Pulses(Lertil)                 1 5         0.08             0 7          0 00          0.05          0.00       12050            0             641             0          641            3730           283           357
Jute                           5 4         0 27             1 3          2.10          0.35          0.57        7980           90            2818            51         2869            8344          2266           603
Potato                         0.8         0.04             0.8          0 00          0.03          0.00        4630            0             149             0          149           14850           598          -449
Vegetables(brinjal)            0.8         0.04               8          0.00          0.32          0.00     1950.00            0             628             0          628            6581           265           363
Sugarcane                      0.8         0.04              25          0 00          1.01          0.00      760.00            0             765             0          765          13290            535           230
AlI /Total                     100         5.03                  _____                                                                       72425          6686        79111           75579         36214         42897
/a Farm income includes income from Crop Enterprses only
/b  Average Cropping intensity of 146 % from SAR
/c  From Table I
/d  From Table 14 C
/e  Farmers sell whole came to the factory and bum by product. from pulses for fuel, hence no cash value is realized from by products for pulses and sugarcane.
T-1 2ABC.XLS1/31/96



NEPAL
Sunsari-Morang Irrigation II Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix - 2  Economic Re-evaluation
Table 13B                                                                       Farm Income of Typical Medium Farm, Stage II (3.9 ha) /a
With Project, 1998/99)
(in constant 1994/95 financial prices)
crop             Cropped      Cropped        Yield of        Yield of          Total poducti>              Oupu Frpate                        Groa Form 1     . Re                   Cost of Productim /d        Net F.m
Area        Area      Main - poduct     By-;uduct                 (ad)                   Prce, Ratto d /d
(%) b      (ha) /b        (mtb) /c        (mtot) /c        Main           By            Man           By            mien             By       Total Gnr           Cota         Totd  Coda       1
p_d__          prdu          prt  d       P                voutd                        1ncome      Per (Rafb) /b    of {b fomt        (Ra)
Paddy (Mien)                    45.6          3.27              3.5            3.8          11.44          12.42        6910           600            79073           7455         86528            1006S          32918          53610
Paddy (Erty)                     8.7          0.62              3.9            4.3           2.43           2.68        7700           600           1732            1609         20342            10126           6316          14025
Maize                            2.2          0.16                3            3.9           0.47           0.62        6290           150             2977             92          3069             7391           1166           1903
Whbee                           21.9          1.57                3             3            4.71           4.71        6700           250            31562           1178         32739             7846          12320          20419
Oileed                           6.5          0.47              0.S             0            0.37           0.00        17780            0             6629              0          6629             3693           1721           4908
Pules(LM)                        6.5          0.47                1             0            047            0.00        12050            0             5616              0          5616             4573           2131           34S5
Jute                             1.6          0.11               1.5           2.4           0.17           0.23        7980            90             1373             25          1398             S412            965            433
Potat                            1.6          0.11               21             0            2.41           0.00         4630            0             11154             0         11154            23718           2721           8433
Se-%                             1.6          0.11               45             0            5.16           0.00       760.00            0             3923              0          3923            16533           1897           2027
Vegeeblil(Cabbege)               1.1          0.0               1 9             0            1L50          0.00        2940              0             4406              0          4406          11416              900           3303
Ve ble (Bnqa)                     0.5         0.04               25             0            0.90           0.00         1950            0              1748             0          174             11711            420           1328
Vegetl (Tanao)                    1.1         0.08               24             0            1.89          0.00         3330             0             6303              0          6303            12 186          961           5342
10- (Momeg)                       1.1        o0.06                              0            0.08           0.00        18375            0              1449             0          1449             4313            340           1109
AET l                             100         7.17 _I.ToI                                                                                             161040         10359        171391            92360          62155         10924
/a Farm mannm mdd  reoen fra Crop Enwpdi  ae       y  0l
/b Avuq  CrEppIel zswdY of 134 % frr SAR
/C  Fom  Table 2
/d  Frem Tabl 14D
hc  Frme  adwhole c   to  fwe ty cnd bn bycprodwb frepu    for fel, b     nc          b wne  rebd fun by hdtfor puma   d  g e.
T-12ABC.XLS1/31/96



64
NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Irrigation II Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2 - Economic Re-evaluation
Table 14A               Crop Coverage without Project (1987/88), Stage II
Cropping     Cropped                     Area for           Area for
Intensity (%) 0  hak'      Coveragei'  Small Farm (ha)kv  Medium Farm (ha) 2
Paddy (Main)              84       14028          65.1              1.18               3.30
Paddy (Early)              8         1336          6.2              0.12               0.31
Wheat                     17         2839         13.2              0.24               0.66
Pulses                     2         334           1.5              0.03               0.07
Oilseed                    2         334           1.5              0.03               0.07
Potato                     1         167           0.8              0.01               0.04
Maize                      6        1002           4.7              0.08               0.23
Jute                       7         1169          5.4              0.09               0.27
Veg. (Brinjal)             1          167          0.8              0.01               0.04
Sugarcane                  1         167           0.8              0.01               0.04
TOTAL                    129       21543           100               1.8               5.03
CCA = 16,700 ha
a/ From SAR
IV Taking % area in a/ column 1* 16,700 ha.
;/ Taking b/ Column 2 as a % of 21,543 ha.
g/ Taking values of c/ * 1.8 ha total cropped area of typical small farm.
I Taking c/ * 5.03 ha for total cropped area of typical medium farm.
L:\becatfIl-14a.,



65
NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Irrigation II Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2 - Economic Re-evaluation
Table 14B         Crop Coverage at Full Development 1998/99, Stage II
Coverage of
Cropping    Cropped      Cropped        Area for        Area for
Intensity (%)   ha        Area (%)    Small Farm (ha)  Medium Farm (ha)
Paddy (Main)             84       14028         45.6             1.20             3.31
Paddy (Early)            16        2672          8.7             0.22             0.62
Wheat                    40        6680         21.9             0.56             1.57
Pulses                   12        2004          6.5             0.16             0.46
Oilseed                  12        2004          6.5             0.16             0.46
Potato                    3         501          1.6             0.04             0.11
Maize                     4         668          2.2             0.05             0.15
Jute                      3         501           1.6            0.04             0.11
Veg. (Brinjal)            1         167          0.5             0.01             0.03
Sugarcane                 3         501          1.6             0.04             0.11
Gram                      2         334           1.1            0.03             0.08
Veg. (Tomato)             2         334          1.1             0.03             0.08
Veg. (Cabbage             2         334          1.1             0.03             0.08
TOTAL                   184       30728          100             2.57             7.17
CCA = 16,700 ha
L:becot\t-14Bjds



66
NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Irrigation II Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2 - Economic Re-evaluation
Crop Budget
Table 14C                                                          (Without Project, 1987/88)
Stage II
NRs/ha       Finacial Prices /a
Production Parameters                                                                       Crop
Paddy    Paddy   Maize   Wheat Oilseeds  Pulse          Jute    Potato   Tomato    Brinjal   Susucane   Gram    Cabbb4e
(Main)   (Early)                             (Lentil)                                                    MOmu
1. GrossRetumr(NRs/ha)                     18684      13700   10394   9730    8890    8435          10563   37040    0         15600       19000     0         0
A. Main Product (mt/ha)                     2.4       1.6      1.6      1.4      0.5      0.7       1.3      8        0         8          25        0         0
Price (NRs/t)             6910      7700    6290    6700       17780   12050    7980    4630        3330      1950       760       1375    2940
Value (NRs)               16584      12320   10064   9380    8890    8435         10374   37040    0          15600       19000     0         0
B By-product (mt/ha)                        3.5       2.3      2.2      1.4      0        0         2.1      0        0         0          0         0         0
Price (NRs/t)             600       600      150      250      0        0         90       0        0         0          0          0        0
Value (NRs)               2100       1380    330      350      0        0         189      0         0        0          0          0         0
2.ProductionCost(NRs/ha)                    7498      7510    4540.5  6121    3115    3730          8344    14850    800        6581       13290      0        380
A, InputCost                                848       1910    1040.5  1956    105         1105      1344    8515      800       1611       5240      0         380
i) Seed
a)Seedrate(Kglha)              60        100      15       100      6        50        8        800      1         1          2500      0         1
Price(NRslkg)              9.4       10.8    14.7    11.7    17.5    22.1          35       8.5      800      500         0.94       18.4     380
Value(NRs)                564        1080    220.5    1170    105       1105      280      6800     800       500        2350       0         380
ii)FertilizerCost                         244        800      800      786     0        0          1044    1715      0        1111        2890      0         0
a)N  (Kg/ha)                20        0        0        20       0        0         20       20       0         35         65         0        0
Price (NREskg)             12.2      12.2    12.2    12.2    12.2    12.2          12.2    12.2      12.2      12.2       12.2       12.2     12.2
Value (NRs)               244        0       0        244      0        0         244      244      0         427        793        0         0
b)P (Kg/ha)                0          0        0        20       0       0         0         10       0        20          40        0         0
Price (NRsIkg)            27.1       27.1    27.1    27.1    27.1    27.1          27.1    27.1      27.1     27.1        27.1      27.1      27.1
Value (NRs)               0         0        0        542      0        0         0        271      0         542        1084       0        0
c)K (Kg/ha)                 0         0        0        0        0        0         0       0         0         10         15        0         0
Price (NRs/lkg)            14.2      14.2    14.2    14.2    14.2    14.2          14.2    14.2      14.2     14.2        14.2      14.2      14.2
Value (NRs)               0         0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0         142        213        0        0
e) Manure (mt/ha)             0         4        4        0        0        0         4        6        0         0          4         0         0
Price (NRs/t)             200       200      200      200      200      200       200      200      200       200        200        200      200
Value (NRs)               0          800     800      0        0        0         800      1200     0         0          800        0        0
iii) Chemicals (NRslha)                    40         30       20       0        0       0         20       0         0        0           0         0         0
B. LaborCost(Rs/ha)                        6650       5600    3500    4165    3010    2625          7000    6335      0        4970        8050      0         0
i) HuumanLabor(Day)                        120       90       70       69       38       35        150      125      0         110        150        0        0
Price (NRs/day)           35        35       35       35       35       35        35       35       35        35         35         35       35
Value(NRs)                4200       3150    2450    2415      1330    1225       5250    4375      0         3850       5250       0        0
ii) DraflLabor (PairDay)                    35        35       15       25       24      20        25       28        0        16          40        0         0
Price (NRs/pair day)        70        70       70       70       70       70        70       70       70        70         70         70       70
Value (NRs )              2450       2450    1050    1750    1680    1400         1750    1960      0         1120       2800       0        0
Net FinancialRetum (NRs/haX1-2)             11186     6190    5853.5  3609    5775    4705          2219    22190    0 /b      9019        5710      0         0 /b
/a As in Table I, but at 1994/95 constant financial prices.
/b Not produced in the without project situation.
/a As in Table 2, but at 1994/95 constant financial prices.
T-i4CD.XL8lJ31Me



67
NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Irrigation II Project
Implementation Completion Report
Crop Budget
Table 14D                                                              (With Project, 1998/99)
Stage i & II
NRs/ha   Financial Prices /a
Production Pararneters                                                                        Crop
Paddy    Paddy   Maize   Wheat  Oilseeds   Pulse         Jute    Potato   Tomato    Brinjal   Sueara    G           CaGrow
(Main)   (Early)                              (Lentil)                                                     MOM*
l.GrossReturn(NRs/ha)                       26465      32610    19455   20850    14224    12050       12186   97230    79920    48750        34200      13375    55860
A. Main Product (mt/ha)                     3 5        3 9      3        3        0.8       1         1.5      21       24        25          45         1        19
Price (NRsI)              6910       7700    6290    6700       17780    12050     7980    4630       3330      1950       760        13375    2940
Value(NRs)                24185      30030    18870   20100   14224   12050        11970   97230    79920    48750         34200      18375    55360
B. By-product (mt/ha)                       3.8        4.3      3 9      3        0        0          2.4      0        0         0           0         0         0
Price (NRsIt)             600        600      150      250      0        0         90       0         0        0           0          0         0
Value(NRs)                2280       2580    585       750      0        0         216      0         0         0          0          0         0
2.ProductionCost(NRs/ha)                     10068.5   101255  7391.6  7846.5  3693.5  4573.5    8412.5  23718    12186    11711              16533     4313      11416
A. Input Cost                                1843.5    1900.5  2316.6  2701.5  543.5    1423.5    537.5    15283    3786          3486        6033      333       3366
i) Seed
a)Seedrate (Kg/ha)             55         55       18       120      6        50        8        1400      1         1          2800       20        1
Price(NRIWkg)              9.4        10.8     14.7     11 7     175      22.1      35       8.5       800      500         0.94       18.4     330
Value(NRs)                517        594      2646    1404    105        1105      280      11900    800        500        2632       368       330
ii)FertilizerCost                           1226.5    1226.5  1972      12875   318.5   318.5        257.5   2958      2836      2836        3001      515       2336
a) N  (Kg/ha)               45         45       40       50       15        15        10       60       50        50          100       20        50
Price (NRs/kg)             12.2      12.2      12.2     12.2    12.2    12.2        12.2    12.2       12.2     12.2        12.2       12.2     112
Value(NRs)                549        549      4S8      610      183      183       122      732       610      610         1220       244       610
b)P (Kg/ha)                 25         25       20       25       5        5         5        30        30        30         50         10        30
Prnce (NRs/kg)             27 1      27.1     27.1     27.1     27.1     27.1       27.1     27.1     27.1      27.1        27.1      27.1      27.1
Value(NRs)                677.5      6775    542       6775    1355    135.5       135.5   813        813       813        1355       271       S13
c)K (Kg/ha)                 0          0        10       0        0        0         0         15       15        15         30         0         15
Price (NRs/kg)             14.2      14.2      142      142      14.2     14.2      14.2    14.2      14.2      14.2        14.2       14.2     14.2
Value(NRs)                0          0        142      0        0        0         0        213       213       213        426        0         213
c) Manure (mt/ha)               0          0        4        0        0        0         0         6        6         6          0          0         6
Price (NRs/t)             200        200      200      200      200      200       200      200       200      200         200        200       200
Value(NRs)                0          0        800      0        0        0         0        1200      1200      1200       0          0         1200
iii) Chemicals (NRs/ha)                      100       80       80       10       120      0         0        425       150       150        400        0         150
B Labor Cost (NRs/ha)                       8225       8225    5075    5145       3150     3150       7875    8435      8400      8225        10500     3430      3050
i) Human Labor(Day)                         145        145      85       83      40        40        175      165       170       165        200        so        160
Prnce (NRsday)               35         35       35       35       35       35        35       35        35       35          35         35        35
Value (NRs/ha)               5075       5075    2975    2905       1400     1400      6125    5775       5950      5775       7000       1750      5600
ii) DraftLabor(pair Day)                    45         45       30       32       25       25        25        38       35        35         50         24        35
Price (NRs/pair day)           70         70       70       70       70       70        70       70        70       70          70         70       70
Value (NRs/ha)               3150       3150    2100    2240       1750     1750       1750    2660      2450      2450       3500       1680      2450
Net Financial Retum (NRs/haX1-2)             16396.5   22484.5  12063.4  13003.5  10530.5  7476.5   3773.5   73512    67734    37039          17667     14062    44444
/a As in Table 2, but at 1994/95 constant financial prices.
T-14C.KL81121Iu



NEPAL
Sunsari Morang Irrigation 11 Project
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 2 - Economic Re-evaluation
Table 15                                                                                             Incremental Employment Impact by Project
Construction Period                                                                    Post-Construction Period
SMIP II Yearwise                               IS87/88   1eie/89  1989/90   1990/91  1991/92 1992193   1993/94   1994/95   1995/98            1996/97      1997198        1998/99      1999/00       2000/01       2001/02
1   Investment Cost, Table 8                                11.14      20.46     27.00    42.69   58.69       84.00     72.52      13.47
Civil Works- Labor ('000 mandaysl /1                    83.55    153.45    202.50  320.18  440.10    630.00    543.90    101.03
2   Annual O&M eudget, Table IOA
ial Project Cost excl. Adm. Cost (Rs. '0001                                                                                        39883.00      35948.00      36521.00    40970.00        29776.00      29393.00       34395.00
Labour Component (70%) /2                                                                                                       27918.10      25163.60      25564.70     28679.00      20843.20      20575.10       2407e.50
(b) Estimated Mendays (1000)                                                                                                          697.95        629.09        639.12       716.98        521.08        514.38         601.91
at average of Rs. 40/mandays
3   Incremental Labor generated from Construction and O&M   93.55    153.45    202.50   320.18  440.10    630.00    543.90    101.03          697.95        629.09        639.12        716.98        521.09        514.38         601.91
O&M '(000 m/d)
Ial Total during Construction period             2474.70
(b) Average during Post-construction Period per year  617.22
4   On Farm Employment at full development 1989/99
(a) Crop area (Stag II only)                                                                                                                                                                                                    ON
Irrigated. With project, Cumulative ha          0.00       0.00    891.00 3604.00 6025.00   8400.00 13437.00 16650.00    16550.00            16550.00      16550.00      16550.00      16550.00      16550.00       16550.0/p
(b) Incremental Crop Labor Requirement iMd/ha)           1                   2                3 = 2-1                4                    5 =3x4
Without Proaect       With Project    Incremental md/lha/y  Ha (at full devt)    Incr. Crop Lab. Req.
. Paddy Main                                            120                 145                 25                 13860                  346500
- Paddy Early                                           90                  145                 55                 2640                   145200
- Maize                                                 70                   85                  15                 660                    9900
- Wheat                                                 69                   83                  14                6600                   92400
- Oilseeds                                              38                   40                  2                 1980                    3960
- Pulses (Lentil)                                       35                   40                  5                 1980                    9900
- Jute                                                  150                 175                 25                  495                    12375
- Potato                                                125                 165                 40                  495                    19800
- Tomato                                                 0                  170                 170                 330                   56100
- Brinjal                                               110                 165                  55                 165                    9075
-Sugarcana                                              150                 200                  50                 495                   24760
- Gram (Mung)                                            0                   50                  50                 330                    16500
-CI                                                      0                 160              160                    330                    52800
799260
3emmary of Ernplpymeet Impact: Th. project employed 2.5 million mao-day durins constratitn perid 11987/88 1994/95) and average of 0.9 milHbn mne-days per year daring post-conetwction pedrd
11995199 cnd folbingrl. rncrememeal empleyment gener-ted by chenrg of egrisulfral cropping patterns and cropping intenety ai 0.8 milen me--days per pear at fuN denlepmen (1998199).
ases:  /1  83.550 mrndysva itcautsetd taking Re. 11.14 iio.n * 30% bbo.rcormpnt diided bY Re. 40 pe, menday * 1.000 to get '000mndeVs.
/2  Ltebowe coponeet duing peat construction peeled iseattb ad tt 70% of the ea..l 0M sost.



69
Implementation Completion Report
Sunsari Morang Irrigation II Project
(Credit 1814-NEP)
Appendix 3
Borrower's Evaluation of the Project
Introduction:
The Sunsari Morang Irrigation Project -II ( SMIP-I1 ) is the continuation of the phased
development of the Sunsari Morang Irrigation System covering about 68,000 ha. The
project is designed to cover an area of 16,700 ha. of Sunsari district. The project has been
accomplished with the financial support of the IDA under Credit No. 1814-NEP from
September 4, 1988 until March 1995. This report is prepared to incorporate the
experiences of the borrower on the implementation of the project.
Objectives:
The main objectives of Stage II were to increase agricultural production and farmer s
income through the rehabilitation and improvement of the existing irrigation and drainage
system and the efficient utilization of the available resources. To achieve these objectives,
it was agreed that the project would:
(i)  Assist in introducing improved design and operation principles to the
irrigation system which would ensure a relable and equitable water supply.
(ii)  Protect the canal system against siltation problem by providing a desilting
facility.
(iii) Reform and improve cost recovery.
(iv) Provide technical support and training to strengthen the local capability to
implement the project, and
(v)  Strengthen the link between DOA and project management.
Project Component:
In order to achieve the above objectives, the following main components of the project
were envisaged.
(i)  Improvement of CMC.
(ii)  Improvement of desilting operation.
(iii) Rehabiiitation and improvement of Irrigation and drainage works in 16,700
ha. in Stage II Area.
(iv) Improvement of Irrigation and drainage system in Stage I Area ( 9750 ha.)
and construction of building fcr office and staff quarters.
(v)  Procurement of equipment and vehicles for 0 & M.
(vi) Technical support.
(vii) Support for incremental project establshment and maintenance costs, and



70
(viii) Improvement of water management practices.
Project Completion:
The project implemented over seven years ( 1988 - 1995 ) period includes:
a)   Restoration and improvement of 53 KM long Chatra Main Canal;
b)   Construction of 950m X 60m Settling Basin;
c)   Command area development down to 4 ha. rotational unit over an area of
16,700 ha;
d)   Remodelling of water course level canals for 1000 ha. of Stage I area from 50
ha. chak with 5 outlets to 28 ha. chak of 7 outlets;
e)   Buildings : Only 3 gate operator's house were built out of 20 proposed and
modification of 3 subdivisional head quarters out of 4 was completed.
t)   Vehicles and Equipments : 2 Passenger Jeeps, 2 Pick-up Jeeps, One Station
wagon, 12 Motorcycle, 128 Bicycles and a few lots of spare for the existing
equipment, workshop equipment were procured. Further procurements were
suspended as most of the construction and maintenance works were to be
carried under [CBILCB contracts.
g)   Dredging : Procurement and installation of two cutter - suction dredgers of
14.0 M3/hr. capacity was completed.
b)  Technical support: The consultant services for planning, design, construction
supervision and design of new headworks were taken as
i  Expatriate Consultants  152.6 MM.
(ii) Local Consultants 325.9 MM.
i)   Training and Research/Study:
The following activities were undertaken during project implementation
(i )  Panel of Experts ( POE ) were invited for a study to suggest means for
providing silt free water and acute water shortage problem during
winter due to westward movement of Koshi river flow. The [DA funded
Sunsari Morang Headworks Project ( ShlHP ) is the outcome of the
study.
( u) Training on Computer use and application.
( iu) OMIS aud Water management.
( iv) Field level training for WUG members & farmers.
( v) Base line study for Sunsari and Morang districts.
( vi) Preparation of Irrigation Area Boundary Map for Stage I and Stage II
area.



71
(vi ) Economic Impact assessment study of Stage II area.
(vii) Process documentation on institutional development aspect of Jhumka
area.
j)   Support for incremental project establishment and maintenance costs has been
provided.
The Costs:
The SAR estimated total cost of the project is about US $ 49.9 Million ( Nrs. 1,221.8
million using a parity of I US S = 22.3 Nrs.). The actual expenditure for SMIP It at the
time of credit closing on March 31, 1995 is estimated to be about US S 46.03 Million
( real terms ) or about 153 % of the SAR estimate due to alternations in the rate of
exchange between Nepalese rupee and US dollar in the course of project implementation
I USS = 22.3 Nrs in 1987/1988 to 49.21 Nrs in 1994/95).
The Benefits:
With the completion of Sunsari Morang Headworks Project, the benefits derived from the
project are 
(i)  Assured year-round supply of water at the design maximum capacity of CMC
and maximum up to 60 M3/S with minimum silt content.
This will result in increased crop coverage due to the availability of water and
lesser maintenance needs due to minimum siltation in CMC and distributory
system.
(ii)  Equitable supply to all farmers. The farmers are more responsive towards the
project.
(iui)  Increased productivitv and production as a result of improved water
management. This has resulted in increased farmer's income.
(iv)  Involvement of farmers in the management of the irrigation system and sharing
of responsibility through tumover process. Through the participation of the
farmers increased supervision of the system is exercised, which results in
decreased maintenance needs of the overall canal system. The sharing of
responsibility by the farmers will result in lesser burden of maintenance on the
Government budget. Most importantly. the collection of water charge will be
enhanced through the participation of the farmers.
(v)  Improvement in environmental situation in different areas due to the
construction of drainage system.
(vi)  Improvement in the Socio-economic operations of the farmers. As a result of
increased accessibility through canal service roads improvement in the living
standard of the farmers is observed.
[ncremental Production and ERR:
The beneficiaries are fully confident of timely availability of irrigation water during Kharif
and Rabi seasons. This has encouraged the farmers to invest more in the input use and



72
adopt improved agricultural practices. Though only a part of the Stage 11 area ( about 37
% ) has attained fuDl development. the crop cutting survey shows the incremental
production to be 13,637 ton of paddy, 16,518 ton of wheat, 1,727 ton of oilseeds, 1,681
ton of pulses. 7,866 ton of vegetables. 4,329 ton of potatoes, 12,512 ton of sugarcane.
This shows a considerable increase in total production, more than that envisaged in SAR.
With fuDl development of the stage 1 area and upon completion of the headworks project.
considerable increase in agricultural production is expected. The present economic rate of
return is calculated to be 19 % as against 21 % of SAR. The ERR mnay go in the range of
23 - 25 % after full development.
Performance of the Borrower:
Though there have been trade and transit inpasse between the HMGN and Government
of India and major change in political situation of the country during project
implementation. the effect on the project implementation was minimum. The project
management was always positive to the valuable suggestions of [DA mission. However,
(i ) the borrower failed occasionally to provide adequate matching fund for
smooth project implementation.
(ii) occasionally, certain delay was caused in submitting the audit report on time
due to the involvement of different agencies and complexity of the
administrative procedures. although the borrower has constantly been careful
to avoid the delay.
( Hi) there has been frequent change of project managers and engineering staff.
( iv) lack of experience of the project staff in exercising participatory program in
such a project where rehabilitation, construction. 0 & M and feasibility study
phases are running together in different areas has slowed down the
participatory management effects.
(v)  there has been certain delay in selecting technical options for improving
sediment problem and intake problem due to the complexity of the options
and huge investment requirement.
(vi) the borrower prepared a project operation plan ( POP ) and submitted to the
IDA with an assurance to follow POP in future.
(vii) the borrower failed to develop mechanism to coordinate other line agencies
related to agricultural development in progression of irrigation development.
Performance of FDA:
The performance of IDA has been satisfactory for the implementation of this project. But
IDA could not:
( i) assess the whole problem of water acquisition.
( ii) foresee involvement of beneficiaries at all stages of system development.
(iii ) appraise larger project so as to shorten the phased development of the whole
Sunsari Morang System.



73
4
( v) foresee the benefit of allotting more than one ICB contracts.
(vi) foresee the management problem of running different types of activities under
SMIP as a whole.
(vii) develop mechanism so as to operate the other line agencies related to
agricultural development in progression of the irrigation development.
(vini) provide a plan for staff development.
(ix) foresee the need of augmenting the supply to cope with the water requirement
over the whole Sunsari Morang [rrigation System.
(x) foresee the utilization of extra available water from the new intake.
Project Sustainability:
The basic requirements of a sustainable irrigation system are
-    Adequate and reliable water supply :  This will be ensured by the
accomplishment of the Sunsari Morang Headworks Project ( SMHP ).
-    Efficient irrigation system : In the last Kharif and Rabi crops seasons, the
frmers of the developed area ( Stage I area and Stage 11 area ) have
recognised the merits of the developed system and the importance of the
Rotational Water Supply based on which the system is designed.
-    Involvement of beneficiaries ( water users ) and turn over of management of
the canal system to them. This results in sharing of 0 & M responsibility and
better water management.
-    Adequate 0 & M budget: This is assured through Project Operational Plan
POP ) prepared and guaranteed by the borrower.
However, IDA mission's frequent supervision visit of the project area and its flexible
approach in problem solving helped a lot in timely implementation of the project.
Mission's direct dialogue with the farmers was very much helpful in building the
confidence of and enhancing the cooperation of the farmers.
Beneficiaries Involvement and Turnover:
Structured Irrigation System based on Rotational Water Supply ( RWS ) has proven
basically acceptable to the farmers. However it requires rigorous training for farmers and
their participation in an organised manner in the management of water in the field. In
addition, the Irrigation Policy of the Government intends the farmers participation in all
stages of the project implementation and sharing of responsibility of the management of
the irrigation system. In consistence with the Policy WUOs have been established at all
levels of the canal system and turnover process has been introduced.
Water Users Groups ( WUGs ) at watercourse level covering about 28 ha- Water Users
Sub - committee ( WUSc ), optional at tertiary level; Water Users Committee ( WUC )
at the level of Tertiary and Sub - secondary canals direct from Secondary canal and main
canal; and Water Users Coordination Committee ( WUCC ) at secondary canal lvel,
have been formed and legly registered in whole Stage 11 area. The members are trained



74
and made functional to bear the burden of management tasks. Water Users Central
Coordination Committee ( WUCCO ) has been formed at project level to decide the
policy matters.
In consistence with the Irrigation Policy of the Government. nine systems of Stage II area
covering an area of 4005 ha.( nearly 25 % ) have already been turned over to the
respective WUOs. The turnover programme is in lne with the POP submitted to the IDA.
Water Management:
The distribution system of the project is designed as Structured Irrigation System based
on the principle of Rotational Water Supply ( RWS ). The main canal ( CMC ) supplies
continuously to the secondary canals ( SCs ) equitablv and up to their design maximuo
capacity according to the available supply in CMC. Sub-Secondary Canal ( SSCs ) and
Terfiary Canal ( TCs ) direct from the CMC and SCs, which are designed for double the
project duty, operate ' ON ' and ' OFF ' according to a Mode of Operation (MOO)
depending on the available supply in CMC. The system below the intake of an SSC/rC is
ungated terminating into WCs. A WC covering an area of about 28ba supplies to 7 field
outlets each serving about 4 ha. According to the design, during the period of operation
the SSCs/TCs are indispensably to be supplied at their maximum design capacity. The
WCs operate continuously during the operation of the SSCs/TCs. However, the whole
discharge of WC has to be supplied in only one Field Outlet ( FO ) and then to only one
famer at one time. and. thus, the FOs have to be supplied intermittently.
The water mianagement below Sub - secondary is the responsibility of WUOs. The strict
practice of RWS leaves no alternative to compronising on water use and agricultural
activities. Except for the few, most of the farmers cooperate with the system.
The overall efficiency of the system is estimated to be 42 %. Proper management practice
is required to at least maintain this level of efficiency. To test the real situation at field
level, actual water measurement is taken at selected places. Gauge marks have been
painted at all deviding structures and fuD supply level is marked on. Some of the areas
less than 10 % ) face difficulty in irrigation. This is mainly due to
(i) farmers attempt to irrigate high patch of land.
(ii) defective Water course.
(iii ) non cooperative farmer group
(iv) watercourse not properly maintained.
(v ) placing of illegal pipes by other farmers.
Budget for 0 & M:
As clearly stated in POP the 0 & M budget required from 1995/96 to 1999/2000 is in
diminishing trend from NRs. 769/ha to NRs. 510/ha respectively. As POP has been
endorsed by HMG'N. it is expected that the stated budget for 0 & M will be provided to
develop SMIP a sustainable irrigation system.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Feed Back:
Project management has established monitoring & evaluation unit under management
division. The unit collects the field data on agriculturaL socio - economic, hydro -



75
meteorological aspects of system operation. The findings are discussed in the regular
meetings of 0 & M. Flow measurement data at al dividing points are taken three times a
day during whole operation period and at places in CMC and is recorded for reference.
Water Charge CoUection:
The SMIP area is characterised as developed ( Stage I and Stage 11 ) area and
undeveloped ( Stage III ) area. According to the Irrigation Policy of the Government, a
portion of the Stage If developed area has been handed over to the respective Water
Users' Organisations ( WUOs ) and they have started collecting water charge in their
areas. The tendency of water charge colection by the WUOs is encouraging.
The responsibility of collecting water charge over the project area being essentially
entrusted to the project authority, the project has established a system of coDecting water
charge in other areas. The Sub-divisional Engineers have been assigned to collect water
charge in their respective jurisdiction where the system is not turned over to WUO yet.
To support the colection of water charge by both the project authority and the WUOs.
the Ministry of Water Resources has undertaken the amendment of existing Irrigation
Regulation. The amendment in process is intended to incorporate sufficient statutory
rights to both the project authority and the WUOs that can help them in collecting water
charge effectively.
Comments:
( i )   Project Design:
The overall objective of the project is to increase production and productivity of the
command area. The specific objective of the project is to develop an irrigation system
which is acceptable to the users and develop the capability of the beneficiary to under take
the management role through organized groups in a sustainable manner. The overall
objective requires a multi disciplinarv operation invohing al line agencies related to
agriculture development. No mechanism was thought to develop coordination and
conmmunication between different agencies having different target area. The specific
objectives could be met to some extent. But a line of action to achieve the objective could
not be thought and implemented in a planned manner.
The size of the project was kept limited considering only one package and one ICB
contract. That expanded the time for total area development and thereby project's cost in
total. This also leads to management problem in such a large operating system.
The planning and design part of the project is not truly fit to the farmers need. Cultivable
comrnmand area was taken as the only controling factor in planning and design of canals.
The foDlowing factors were completely ignored.
-    Type of soil
-    Length of terminal canal
-    Cropping pattern ( same cropping pattern was taken for whole area
-    Terminal canal passing through residential area
-    Average travel time of water from tertiary to the field



-    Length of possible field channel
-    Water flow direction from outlets
-    Placement of field outlets
Failure to consider all these factors in design led to difficult/forceful implementation and
famers dissatisfaction.
There has been least involvement of project personnel in planning and design as well as
construction supervision. As a result, the project Engineers could not receive appropriate
training and some practical problems related to water management have been completely
ignored by the consultants during design an construction.
( u )   Project Appraisal:
The project was implemented as per the appraisal and no significant deviation was made
during implementation except for few additional works which have been executed to the
local situation. SAR in itself is not widescopic but limited. The weaknesses of SAR are:
-    participatory program was not spelled out clearly.
-    no plan was prepared to meet the predicted cropping pattern and crop
coverage.
-    crop yield. production cost, cropping intensity and cropping pattern do not
match with the then available data in other reports.
-    no definite plan for the project staff development was devised.
(iii)   Project Implementation:
Combined efforts from the consultants. the contractors and the project staffs along with
the IDA supervision mission led to timely and successfil completion of the project.
However few points are worth noting.
-    soil borrow from adjacent field changed the topography of the land creating
problems in water application, land leveling, water logging and loss of fertile
top soil of the farmer and disturbed the farm boundaries. In addition, it has
affected the stability of the canal itself
-    poor supervision and quality control resulted in few defunct and nonfunctional
tertiary and watercourses.
-    during construction existing outlet pipes were not removed and it is creating
problem in present operation as farmers are keen to take water from nearest
place.
-    sociologists were not hired from the very beginning of inplementation to help
resolve disputes with the farmers in canal alignment.
-    farmer organizations were not developed and trained to involve the farmers
from the beginning of the implementation of the project.



77
-    field outlets. which are of utmost importance for farmers. were located based
on the planning on topographic map irrespective of the ground situation. This
in several cases is creating problem in water distribution and social problem in
constructing Field Channels.
-    Many cross drainage works have been provided on farmers demand instead of
constructing drainage ditch by convincing the farmers. This has not only
endangered the safety of especially the minor canals, rather has also created a
new problem of drainage where it was not required.
- Tail escape structures and drainage canal must be provided at the end of every
tertiary and WCs, to drain out water that is surplus to the requirements in the
upper reach due to any reason.
-    in absence of appropriate passage over WCs to facilitate movement of cattle
and farming equipment. damage to WCs is made during each crop season.
(iv)  Project Results:
A.ler the completion of the project implementation the farmers have been benefited
substantially. Some of the direct physical benefits leading to financial and economic
benefits are:
-    Increase in net irrigated area.
-    Increase in crop yield. crop coverage and cropping intensity.
-    Cultivation of high yielding variety of paddy has drastically increased.
-    Cost of farm land has increased tremendously.
-    Canal inspection road network has facilitated the farmers in transporting their
farm products to the local market so as to get higher price and farm inputs
therefrom.
-    Canal road has helped develop local cooperatives and shops.
-    Ease of transportation to farm land has helped in farm mechanization to some
extent, which has chain effect of time saving and provide opportunity for the
farmers to involve in other productive business.
-    Generated employment for local people.
-    Water charge is being collected.
-    Provision of drainage has improved the environmental situation in different
areas.
Lason learned:
Some of the lessons leamed are:
-    Beneficiaries involvement at all levels of project development is a must.



78
-    Appropriate planning of farm level canals  is a key to successful water
management towards achieving project objective.
-    Field out let fixation in consultation with water users should be given due
consideration.
-    Dozing of soil from farmer's field for canal banks should be strictly prohibited.
-    Long tertiary canals and water courses more than one Km. long are not
favorable.
-    Parallel water courses should be avoided.
-    Tail escape structure is essential to save the canal during emergency ( excess
flow).
-    Farmer organization should be developed from  the very beginning of
implementation of the command area development.
-    Training program for farmers and agency people  should be given due
consideration.
-    System should be turned over as soon as the physical construction of canal
systems and its trial operation for one season is completed.
n Gradual coming out of the system " should be practiced.
-    Water charge collection should be given priority.
-    Adequate budget as per POP is prerequisite for sustainable irrigation system.
Suggestions:
Human resources development and motivation of agency personnel are very much
essential to meet the stated objectives of the project. Training program for beneficiaries
and the agency people is very important to develop their capability. HMGN's policy is
just to finance in physical facilities development from the loan fimd. Therefore, grant fund
must be provided for the training of the project staf
Pilot farms should be developed in the area of each secondary canal system. so as to
demonstrate complete process of water management for farmers. INGOs/NGOs should
be invited to do such works of management and training, as their adrministrative
procedural flexibility facilitates its effective implementation.
Agriculture development program should be a built - in component of the irrigation
system development.
Communication mechanism and information sharing system between lne agencies should
be developed and agreed upon before project implementation.
Irrigation Area Boundry Maps must be refered to from the very initial stage of the
implementation of the command area development. and the final alignment of the canals
be marked on immediately. This will provide a basis tool for establishing Watre Users'
organisations, water charge records, and Field Channel alignment.



79
Final alignment of a canal should be decided only after testing on ground and immediately
marked on the irrigation Area Boundry Maps.
The locations of Field Outlets on a WC should be determined through testing on ground
as far as practicably with due respect of the opinion of the farmers, only after the
construction of the WC.
In case of minor canals. especially tertiary canals and watercourses, the section of a canal
above a cross-drainage structure must be lined in sufficient length to protect *gamu
breach of canal due to infiltration of canal water through insufficient soil coverage above
the structure.
Only the project Engineers should be involved in the execution at ad levels of the project
development. The subject matter expatriate specialists to guide and train in the execution
of the individual stages of the project development and to prepare the imnplementation
completion report on the on the completion of the project could be engaged.
In a circumstance of unavoidably required appointment of an expatriate consultants for
overall supervision of construction, the consultants must be held in all respects liable for
the quality of construction.
As the IDA inherently remains concerned about the performance of the borrower, it is
especially the borrower who should feel concerned about the perfbrmance of both the
contractor and the consultant.






80
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT (Cr. 1814-NEP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Appendix 4
PROJECT P am&    AIeIT REP=
ING  OM OEAL
SIA3 MORA= IRCGmII   AM DRAINAGE PROJECT
(CfEDlT 812-W)
EVAUTIO SY
Introduction
The Nepalese Terai, an exten ion of the Canges Plain, affords good
opportunities for increasing agricultural production through irrigation,
and this -as the third irrigation project to be supported by the Bank in
that area.
Oblectives
The project aimed to restore and further improve a previously
installed irrigation system over 66,000 ha which had deteriorated due to
design imperfections and neglect of maintenance, with a view to increasing
farmers' incomes and rural employment.
An important aspect of the design was the provision of improved
river and sediment control vorks in the vicinity of the intake and along
the headreach of the main canal to ensure a more regular supply of
reasonable quality irrigation water to the command area.   A second
important aspect was the planning and design of an extended delivery system
to permit more equitable distribution of the vater to small groups of
farmers down to the 10 ha outlet level over about 18,000 ha of the comand
area, and the construction of irrigation ditches and dralns down to tho
individual  farm  level over 6,400 ha of the 18,000 ha first stage
development area.
lanlementation Ex=erience
Design studies for improved river and sediment control works,
which did not commence unt1iL after credit negotiations, took conaiderably
longer to carry out than anticipated at appraisal, thus delaying
construction by about four years compared with appraisal expectations.
The restoration vorks for the main canal proceeded more or less to
plan in spite of shortages of steel and cement.   The quality of
construction, while generally satisfactory, was inadequate in places.



81
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION 11 PROJECT (Cr. 1814-NEP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Appendix 4
Planning and design for an 18,000 ha Stage 1 development area was
reduced to 12,000 ha because of concern at mounting cost overruns.
Finally, about three years behlnd appraisal schedule, a contract for
eomstruction of c-als and drains down to the 10 ha outlet level over 9,750
ha vas awarded.
Difficulties and delays encountered in implementing the main civil
works led to a further reduction in size and scope of the project in its
fourth year.  Several of the analler ccoponents were dropped while some
Co ponAets of the river and sediment control, and cinand area restoration
and improvement vorks were postponed to a future project out of concern at
cost escalation arising from underestimation of citvil Works costs at
appraisal.
Results
Project achievements have fallen far below appraisal expectations,
orimarily due to the inability of the sediment control devices constructed
uder the project to significantly reduce sedimentation in the distributory
sstm and fields under the operating conditions prevailing in the project
ares (PPAR pars. 29).
Is consequence, and in the absence of adequate maintenance, the
capacity of the system has been undergoing a pronounced and steady decline
sinc the vorks were completed and this is severely limiting potential crop
bsenfits (PPAR para. 32). The economic rate of return is barely positive
(PPAR pares. 53-54).
Sustaiuability
The failure of the sediment control -mesures instituted under the
project to prevent heavy sedimentation, combined vith current shortcomings
in operation and maintenance due to budget deficiencies and operational
complexities, are seriously threatening the sustainability of the project.
Findints and Lessons
A pre-appraisal mission decision to declare the project appraised
and to process the credit documents through to the Board, in spite of the
omission at preparation of specific proposals for reducing sodimentation,
and the absence of design plans for esoential river and sediment control
civil works, reflects an unfortunate misjudgment regarding the etate of
project preparedness. In retrospect, subuission of the project for Beard
approval can be seen as premature (PPAR paras. 36-41).
Undue concern for redesigning to cost as a means for avoiding high
cost overruns which became apparent during implementation, when major



82
NEPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT (Cr. 1814-NEP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLEnON REPORT
Appendix 4
changes in terms of project scope and size were ma-d, led to a &s1mnficant
ch*ane from the initial project taretf sand a shortfall from project
objective.  A forml projeCr resppriss.l would havs been an appropriate
procedure at that time (PPAR par&s. 42-47).
The assumption that remedial awssures incorporated In a foUlw-oo
project wivl rectifT failures in a previous project is inapproprLate when
deterMining rates of return for the purpose of a project completloc report
(PPAk paras. 48-54).






N EPAL
SUNSARI MORANG IRRIGATION II PROJECT
CHATRA MAIN CANAL COMMAND AREA
Stage Il                                                  ad1Si   ra
(16,700 ha.)                                  Sandy Soil Ares
Intake                                            Jhumka                    a.                            Silt Ejectors
Stage 1 (9,750 ha.)                                     Natural Drains and Streams
CHATRA                                     Boundary of Canal Command Area               ,           Protective Embankment
-            Main Canal                                               Main Roads
\                              ~~~~~~~~~~Distributary Canals                  (          Towns                                            
- -   International Boundaries                            ,\ 
\                                 ~~~~~~~~~          ~~To Dh.,.,,            TO M-ch,                                                                 ; 
CHINAR / O  \%c                                   A                                                                                                               RNGE
: A' '0fYB         TM                                                                         N        ANAN  D
,:   INDIA           >4N3t'l   91!               _                                                                                                      0                              5me,                            2CI
30;                        CHN          N3DI0 '
0             4               8 KI,cC 
80~~~~           90 ~~   To Ko.IooIi                                                         INDIA                                                                                                             a









:I MAG I NrG
Repcrt No:         I57Th7
Type: T CR



